"Provides a listing of current committee members."
"The domain wall motion in thin iron films has been studied in the temperature range from +20°C to -175°C by means of the Kerr magneto-optic effect. While at room temperature the reversal takes place by Barkhausen jumps, at -175°C the walls move nearly continuously. The distribution of the discontinuity sizes is plotted as a function of the temperature. The aftereffect increases with decreasing temperature, so that at -175°C the nuclei of the domains grow without any further increase of the field, thus, completing the reversal in a constant field. The coercivity increases with decreasing temperature."
"The three main obstacles to the use of Nb-Zr strip superconductor in magnets have been overcome in recent work with this material. These three problems are as follows: 1) Anisotropy of critical current with magnet field direction: Nb-Zr strip in its as rolled state displays extreme anisotropy with the peak critical current occurring when the field is parallel to the rolling plane, making it difficult to use in anything but long solenoids. This effect has been drastically reduced by certain annealing procedures so that the minimum critical current is about 50 percent of the peak value instead of less than one percent for as rolled strip. 2) Truncation of the anisotropy curves with wide strips: With strips in excess of 1 mm in width the peak of the anisotropy curve becomes progressively more truncated or chopped off as the width is increased. By stabilizing with a copper backing, however, truncation can be completely eliminated so that the strip can be used with equal effectiveness in any width. 3) Coil degradation effect: The failure of superconductors in general to operate at their short sample critical currents when wound into a magnet is well known. Strip Nb-Zr is no exception and is in fact, worse than wire. However, when stabilized with copper to eliminate truncation, the coil degradation is also eliminated provided sufficient cooling passages are provided to remove the Joule heating released by flux jumps and eddy currents. Two actual coils (12.7 cm ID, 1.25 Wb/m2, and 2.54 cm ID, 3 Wb/m2) constructed with this stabilized material operate at the short sample critical currents. These developments have made it possible to construct large magnets from Nb-Zr strip and predict their performance in advance from short sample data. The high critical currents afforded by operation at the short sample critical currents permit designs using only a fraction of the material necessary in unstabilized coils."
"Apparatus is described in which the magnetoelectric susceptibility along the axis of a disk-shaped sample of material may be measured. In one apparatus a pulsed magnetic field is applied, and the resulting eleciric polarization is measured, while in another apparatus an electric field, which increases linearly with time, is applied to the disk and the resulting magnetization is measured. The pulsed magnetic field apparatus proved to be the best system for making measurements and a bandwidth of several megacycles per second was achieved."
"A study of the preparation and resonance properties of NiO doped yttrium iron garnet (NYIG) single crystals forms the subject of the present investigation. These crystals having the formula Y3NixGexFe5-2xO12, where X = 0.025 and 0.13 were prepared by the usual flux method. The resonance properties were measured on spherical samples at about 9100 Mc/s between -185 and +100°C. It is seen that at 20°C,K_{1}/Mdecreases with NiO and shows a tendency to become positive. TheK_{2}/Mis negative and seems to decrease with NiO. As the temperature is lowered,K_{1}/Mchanges sign and becomes increasingly positive, whereas,K_{2}/Mbecomes more negative. It is interesting to note that at low temperatures, 110 becomes the hard axis and 100 the easy one. The temperature dependence of ΔH is quite normal. The rise in thegfactor at a low temperature is very sharp. These properties are explained by supposing the presence of a small fraction of Ni2+ions in the tetrahedral (24d) sites where their ground orbital level is triply degenerate. This provokes a spin-orbit coupling which could contribute to the anisotropy ΔH and thegfactor. The presence of Ni2+ions in the 24d sites is further confirmed by the initial inciease in the lattice parameter with NiO addition. The possible ionic distributions are discussed."
"A method of separation of the mechanisms of initial susceptibility, based on the variations of the susceptibility with grain size, is proposed. For this purpose an earlier proposed model is used together with the conclusions drawn from a long study on the role of intergranular porosity which proved the independence of the susceptibility over this factor. The data on the movement of the walls are thus obtained. Furthermore, rotational susceptibility affords access to effective anisotropy, which is higher than it is generally supposed to be for materials of high susceptibility. Finally the method of separation is applied to YIG."
"The problem of achieving full designability in superconducting coils can be broken up into two parts: 1) achieving reproducible long lengths of superconducting conductor, and 2) winding this conductor into a coil in such a way as to result in a predictable coil performance. This paper discusses first the basic conductor used, namely a copper strip 0.040 inch by 0.500 inch which has imbedded in it nine 0.010-inch diameter heat treated Nb-Zr wires. Typically this conductor can carry 1800 A (200 amperes per wire) at 20 kG and 720 A (80 amperes per wire) at 40 kG and has a current carrying capacity which decreases approximately linearly with increasing magnetic field. (Since the amount of conductor required to produce a given magnetic field is inversely proportional to the current the conductor carries, the use of heat treated Nb-Zr, which has a much higher current carrying capacity, results in a very significant economic gain.) When measurements are taken on short samples of this conductor, the voltage across the sample remains equal to zero up to the critical current, and if enough cooling is present the voltage rises gradually at higher currents. The second part of this paper is concerned with the performance of the stabilized conductor when wound into magnets. Several magnets have been built using the stabilized Nb-Zr strip. These coils include round as well as saddle-shaped coils and produce magnetic fields over dimensions of a few inches to a few feet. The performance of these magnets is discussed with regard to the current carrying capacity of the conductor before the appearance of resistance. In all magnets tested the appearance of resistance did not precipitate a quench. The resistance appeared at a predetermined value of current and upon lowering the current it disappeared at essentially the same current as it had appeared."
"High coercivities (∼1.8 to 8.1 kOe) have been observed in polycrystalline titanium substituted magnetites at 77°K. This property and unusually large (\\sim10^{7}ergs. cm-3) anisotropy constants observed by others in single crystals of the same compound are interpreted on the basis of a new model for cation distribution. Electrical resistivity and low temperature saturation magnetization measurements confirm this model, according to which new Fe2+ions occupy tetrahedral sites for most part of the solid solution series Fe2-2x3+Fe1+x2+Tix4+O42-. This causes a negative trigonal field to be superimposed on octahedral Fe2+ions, hence a twofold degeneracy of the orbital ground state resulting in an unquenched orbital angular momentum and a large anisotropy. Mössbauer absorption spectra provide direct confirmation of the trigonal distortion in the shape of a large quadrupole splitting. For definite proof of the twofold degeneracy, however, such polycrystalline specimens with disordered octahedral cations and ultrabroad magnetic spectra are not useful. It is hoped that single crystal work would prove more definitive."
"It is possible to realize, by means of coils, field configurations with quadrupolar symmetry in which the transverse field gradient remains constant to some 10-3in the useful central zone, thus permitting the realization of quadrupole lenses with good optical qualities. Optimum values better than one percent have been calculated for geometrical parameters leading to linearity of the field gradient. Two cases were studied: trapezoidal cross-section coils, with saddle-shaped extremities, and rectangular cross-section plane coils. In spite of greater construction difficulties, a quadrupole magnet of the first type was realized using Nb-Zr multicored cable. It has a useful diameter of 5.2 cm. mechanical length of 16 cm, and an equivalent magnetic length of 19.2 cm. The maximum field gradient obtained is 7000 G . cm-1, the current beingI = 232A. But the value of the stable working intensity is 225 A, giving a field gradient of 6800 G . cm-1. The radial variations of the field are quite perfectly linear and in good agreement with theoretical results."
"The rare earth metal (RE)-manganese alloys and compounds are interesting, especially with respect to their magnetic properties, since Mn is the first element of the 3d metals, which forms intermetallic compounds with RE metals. The preparation of such compounds by ordinary techniques is difficult, therefore the so-called amalgam process has been used throughout for preparing single-phased, magnetically pure specimens. In this paper magnetic measurements on the compounds RE6Mn23, (RE = Gd, Dy, Er, Y), REMn12(RE = Gd, Dy, Er) and REMn2(RE = Gd, Dy, Er) are reported. In all of these compounds a ferro-, ferri-, or antiferromagnetic coupling of the moments is observed. The magnetic properties of these compounds are discussed and can be explained by transitions between several different ferri- or ferromagnetic states, depending on field strength and temperature."
"The penetration of magnetic fields in nonideal type II superconducting wires carrying audio-frequency transport current with a transversally applied static magnetic field has been investigated measuring theEfield along the surface of straight segments of 10-mil-diameter wire. Oscillographic responses obtained for various frequencies, current amplitudes, and distances between potential probes are described. The application of a limited current density model employed by others for different geometries and forms of excitation to the case of a wire carrying a transport current in an external field is discussed. The oscillographic responses are shown to agree with analytical calculations based on the model, provided that some recognition is given to the magnetic field dependence of the current density parameter."
"The magnetocrystalline anisotropy constants of two ferromagnetic intermetallic compounds, YCo5and Y2Co17, have been measured at room temperature. YCo5has a magnetically easycaxis andK_{1} = 5.7 \\times 10^{7}erg/cm3; K2has not been determined but is estimated to be less than 106erg/cm3. Y2Co17has an easy basal plane, and, by three different methods of measurement :K_{1} + K_{2} = -3.0 \\times 10^{6}erg/cm3;K_{1} = -2.9 \\times 10^{6}erg/cm3,K_{2} = 0.03 \\times 10^{6}erg/cm3;K_{1} = -2.1 \\times 10^{6}erg/cm3,K_{2} = -0.1 \\times 10^{6}erg/cm3."
"Curie points, the temperature dependence of the high-field magnetization below room temperature, saturation moments, and densities are reported for the most iron-rich compounds in the rare earth-iron systems. The heavy rare earth compounds have the composition A2Fe14and the hexagonal Th2Ni17-type structure, while the light rare earths have the stoichiometry AFe7and a modified rhombohedral Th2Zn17structure. From the saturation of Y2Fe17and Lu2Fe17, an iron moment of2.0\\mu_{B}is calculated. In these two compounds and in CeFe7, PrFe7, and, perhaps, NdFe7, all atomic moments couple ferromagnetically, while for Gd2Fe17through Tm2-Fe17the magnetizations of the rare earth and iron sublattices subtract. Curie temperatures range from -180°C (CeFe7) through a peak of +186°C (Gd2Fe17) to -41°C (Tm2Fe17). This suggests that two exchange mechanisms are active which make comparable contributions to the interaction energy: direct exchange between Fe atoms and indirect coupling via conduction electrons between iron and the rare earth atoms."
"Experimental measurements demonstrate that in magnetic film memory geometries employing continuous planar films, film strips, or plated wires, word line to word line coupling is enhanced by the presence of the intervening magnetic material. Rotation of the magnetization under a word line neighboring a driven word line can be several times greater than that which would occur for mechanically defined elements. Appropriately placed keepers can drastically reduce this interaction. The interaction is most severe for thick, low HKfilm material and tight element spacing. Theoretical analysis and experimental results show that for typical keepered geometries, the magnetic field inside the magnetic material decreases approximately exponentially with the distance from the driven word line. The attenuation constant α can be conveniently determined from the material parameters and element dimensions by calculating the series and shunt reluctance per unit length."
"Sputtered magnetic thin films have been studied for the purpose of evaluating both the deposition technique and the films fabricated by this technique. Results of these studies show the sputtering process to be relatively simple to control and the films to be highly uniform and reproducible. Some indications of correlation between crystalline structure and the magnetic properties of the films have been obtained. Control of deposition is relatively simple, since sputtering is a mechanical surface erosion phenomena [1] rather than a thermal process. This control is particularly important in the deposition of magnetic films, since fractional distillation is avoided [2], [3] and film composition is, consequently, reproducible. Control and reproducibility of film thickness is positive because deposition is initiated and terminated by applying or removing the target accelerating potential. Angle of incidence of the deposited particles can be controlled by the proper choice of target geometry, and there is a possibility of controlling film structure by varying the target voltage and, therefore, the energy of the deposited particles [4]. Fixturing can be kept mechanically simple, even in multilayer deposition systems, both because the target (or source) is used at low enough temperatures to be mechanically self-supporting, and only high-voltage low-current electrical contacts need be made to the target. The gas discharge used in these experiments was similar to that used by Gawehn [5]. Argon at a pressure of 10-3torr was used as the ionizing gas. Target current densities ranged from 5-10 mA/cm2, and the partial pressures of impurity gases were controlled to 10-6torr or less. Gross magnetic parameters show correlations similar to those found in evaporated and plated films, with a number of factors related to the deposition process. That is, by varying substrate temperature [6], partial pressures of impurity gases, and substrate coatings [7], it is possible to vary gross magnetic parameters in a predictable manner. These process variations tend to change the crystalline growth of the films, and it is this variation which appears to influence the magnetic parameters. X-ray diffraction measurements of crystalline texture show that the average size (thickness and average density) of the single crystallites and the orientation of those crystallites are important factors in determining the magnetic characteristics of the films. It has been found that most films have a predominately {111} orientation, but that this is somewhat dependent upon the substrate coating. Measurements have also been made to evaluate sputtered films as memory elements. This was done in a qualitative way by plotting switching asteroids. These asteroids consist of plots of the word current vs. the digit current necessary to 1) write both ones and zeros, 2) self-disturb the film, and 3) adjacent-word disturb the film. Proper interpretation of these plots indicates how well the film will perform in an operating memory. The use of this method in conjunction with X-ray diffraction measurements indicates that the amount of crystalline texture may well have an important effect on the reversible rotation limits of thin magnetic Ni-Fe films."
"The alloy Pt-Co 50 atomic percent may be ordered into a tetragonal structure of the CuAu type. An ordered single crystal consists of a system of tetragonal crystallites, whosecaxes are oriented parallel to the three rectangular axes Ox, Oy, and Oz of the disordered matrix. Our study has been performed at room temperature on an ordered macrocrystal where the relative volumes occupied by the three types of crystallites are unequal. The magnetization is always very far from saturation, even in an applied field of 3.104Oe, demonstrating the existence of a very large anisotropy energy in each of the tetragonal phases. We have measured the magnetization along the three axes originally fourfold, the three axes originally twofold, one axis originally threefold, and torque curves, in different magnetic fields. All measurements are in agreement withJ_{s} = 790emu/cm3andK = 5.0 \\cdot 10^{7}ergs/cm3. Such very large anisotropy energy is the largest one known to us at room temperature for a ferromagnet, and we think that it is responsible for the disagreement between magnetic data previously published on this material."
"Magnetic losses in superconductors at radio frequencies are analyzed in terms of a simple model for energy dissipation at local flux-trapping centers. A mathematical development shows that the effective surface resistance is proportional to frequency, the field penetration depth, the density of trapping sites, and a threshold function of the maximum RF field. Experimental data are obtained through RF pulse measurement of the quality factors of superconductive resonant circuits, having resonant frequencies near 100 Mc/s. Decay curves for the energy output of these circuits show a marked break or increase in quality factor at low-field levels. This is taken to correspond to the local critical field predicted in the model. The abruptness of the break leads to the conclusion that all of the trapping sites are of a similar nature, and are probably Abri-kosov fluxoids. If so, these measurements constitute the first direct observation of the transition of the fluxoid core."
"The ferromagnetic phase of MnAl alloy exists at a position slightly different from that of Mn:Al = 1:1 toward the Mn rich side. The single crystal of MnAl alloy was prepared by the horizontal type zone melting process. Domain patterns of that single crystal were observed microscopically with or without applying the magnetizing field, using a colloidal solution of fine iron oxide powders. Domain patterns on the ferromagnetic phase are similar to those of cobalt and MnBi alloy. From magnetizing curves measured at room temperature, the saturation magnetization (4\\piIs) was found to be 6900 gauss and then crystalline anisotropy constantKwas calculated to be9.3 \\times 10^{6}ergs/cm3. When cooled from the room temperature to -140° C,4\\piIsandKwere hardly varied, but the both parameters were slightly decreased when heated up to about 60°C. MnAl alloy properties are magnetically excellent in themselves, but it is very interesting to note that they are remarkably improved by adding up to two percent boron. The improved magnetic characteristics are as follows: 1) Ferromagnetic phase is present in the sample of water-quenched state after a solid solution treatment of 1100°C; 2) Needle-shaped crystals are precipitated into the matrix as the secondary ferromagnetic phase; 3) The more the ternary MnAl-B alloys are swaged, the better magnetic properties are gained, for example, Br 5900 G,BHc1780 Oe, and (BH)max 3.5 M.G.Oe at 70 percent reduction of 71.0 percent Mn, 26.65 percent Al, 1.76 percent B alloy."
"Superconductors are in a quantum state, extending over macroscopic distances. Consequently, they trap magnetic flux in multiples of the flux quantum. This point of view will be taken for a discussion of some recent developments related mainly to induction phenomena in superconductors. 1) In superconductors of the second kind magnetic flux penetrates at external magnetic field values within a certain interval (mixed state). This state violates the traditional characteristics of superconductivity. Not only does it fail to show the perfect Meissner diamagnetism, but it is also, in principle, a resistive state. The latter feature is correlated with the instability of the magnetic structure in the mixed state when a current is injected, the induced flux flow phenomenon being responsible for a variety of effects recently studied, including the Hall effect and a mode of magnetic coupling which makes a dc transformer feasible. 2) It is well known by now that superconductors of the second kind may obtain excellent current-carrying capacities if the mixed state magnetic pattern is stabilized, or pinned. This process is still not fully understood. The recent manufacture of some interesting and practicable wires and cables and the problems of coil construction and their stabilization will be briefly surveyed. 3) By proper manipulation of magnetic flux in superconducting systems, electromagnetic induction of heavy direct currents may be achieved. Fully superconducting dc generators or dynamos have recently been developed, the qualities of which will be discussed. The results of some of the author's recent investigations will be given, including those on multikiloampere dynamos for energizing supermagnets."
"The electrical and magnetic properties of ferrite memory cores (a Li-Ni ferrite and a usual Mg-Mn-Zn ferrite) were investigated in the temperature range between 4.2 and 400°K. Both materials show a quite different behavior at very intensive refrigeration. The remanent induction, and especially the coercivity and switching coefficient of the Mg-Mn-Zn ferrite, rise conspicuously if the temperature decreases. To the contrary, these values change relatively little at the Li-Ni ferrite. Consequently, the peak voltages and the switching time of the sense signals (uV_{1}, dV_{2}, andt_{0s}) of the Li ferrite deviate at 4.2°K only a little from the corresponding parameters at 300°K, if the driving current is increased by about 40 percent. Moreover, in the range from approximately 100°K down to the liquid helium temperature, and possibly below it, these ferrites have a smaller switching coefficient than the Mg-Mn-Zn ferrites."
"The threshold currents necessary for writing and those leading to a destruction of the stored information are determined for 0.4-mm by 0.8-mm elements of single and multilayer films of different thicknesses, without and with a ferrite keeper. The multilayer films consist of two nickel-iron films coupled through a very thin film of a nonmagnetic metal, for instance, gold. A test program with 2.104pulses for alternatingly writing zero and one, or with 2.104disturb pulses, respectively, is used. For making the keeper-to-film separation as small as possible, the drive lines are evaporated onto the two surfaces of one 6-mμ-thick Mylar foil. The results show that the acceptable film thickness, yielding sufficiently large tolerances for the drive currents in a word-organized DRO memory, is increased by the factor 1.7 to 1.8, by using multilayer films instead of single films, as well as a sintered ferrite keeper, which yields a factor of 3 for the combination of both."
"The magnetization distribution in a rectangular film, magnetized parallel to one side, is approximated by assuming that the magnetization\\overrightarrow{M}has the same direction everywhere in the film and that its magnitude rises from zero at the edge to the saturation magnetization Msat a distancecfrom the edge, maintaining this magnitude throughout the remainder of the film area. The function representing the magnitude of\\overrightarrow{M}in the edge region is chosen in such a way that the resulting field has no singularities,cis determined by the coercive force, which is set equal to the sum of the maximum demagnetizing field and an applied reversing field. This model lends itself better to the discussion of demagnetizing effects in single or coupled films than either the ellipsoid or the line-charge model. It takes account of the fact that the width of the edge region, where curling and domain walls occur, varies with the applied field, and, in this respect, it agrees fairly well with experiment. It, furthermore, permits the definition of a disturb sensitivity for memory elements consisting of single or coupled films."
"The magnetization distribution, resulting from the application of a nonuniform field along the hard axis of a uniaxially anisotropic thin film, is calculated. Planar and cylindrical film geometries are considered. We note 1) that there is a simple solution to the nonuniform field problem, provided the applied field is spatially periodic along the hard axis and 2) that many fields of interest are strongly localized and may be treated by the periodic calculation by assuming that the field is repeated at intervals along the hard axis. The interval is taken large enough that the resulting magnetization distribution does not depend on the periodicity so introduced. The calculation becomes invalid when appreciable saturation of magnetization occurs. Experimental measurements on plated wires and planar films, carried out for a variety of drive strap configurations using the Kerr effect probe, are in good agreement with theory."
"A method for preparing a batch fabricated integrated magnetic shift register, \"Orthocore\" is described. The device consists of a complex pattern of printed wires encapsulated in plastic and coated with an electroless magnetic material. Some of the properties required of the material are discussed along with some of the optimum deposition parameters. Substrate considerations such as smoothness and coefficient of expansion are mentioned. The considerations used for a diodeless shift register are described and the design equations are presented. The resulting integrated shift registers are described and their operating conditions are given. The device is shown to have advantage in terms of reliability, cost, and environmental stability."
"Conditions for producing Fe-Ni-Co alloy films on polyester tape by evaporation were studied as to their suitability as magnetic tape storage films. Evaporated films were tested for mechanical and chemical properties as well as magnetic and storage behavior. For achievable storage density the ratio of coercive field strength to saturation remanence is of essential importance. Alloys having high stress anisotropy show the most favorable ratio. Such alloys with a suitable selected film thickness enable a pulse storage of high density. Measures were also tested to obtain highly coercive evaporated films."
"This paper deals with an analysis of the fundamental circuit of a frequency tripler, constructed with saturable reactors. In the analysis, the equation of the circuit is directly obtained by using the approximate expression of the characteristics of the reactor cores. The mechanism of the tripler is quantitatively analyzed by the solution and its criterion. The results of the analysis are in excellent agreement with the experiment."
"Classifying coils above and below 100 kG does not separate types or methods, but rather indicates the degree of difficulty. It is no longer true that conventional dc fields above 100 kG require larger than existing or contemplated power supplies, and it has been established that superconducting materials will be suitable for fields approaching twice that field. Problem areas, economics, and experience above 100 kG are discussed in three major areas: 1) water-cooled dc magnets, principally those now in operation at the National Magnet Laboratory; 2) pulse magnets covering the continuum from sub-millisecond pulses to the low-duty cycle cryogenic magnet systems; 3) superconducting magnets with emphasis on hybrid systems, combining water-cooled copper magnets and superconducting coils."
"For a number of basic reasons, a dc to dc conversion network is defined as an electrical or electromechanical network in which the sole source of energy is a dc source and which is capable of supplying direct current to a load at a voltage level or at a current level which exceeds that of the source. Several constraints encountered in all dc to dc conversion networks are pointed out including the necessity for dc to ac inversion as an intermediate step within a dc to dc conversion network, the minimum amount of ac power which must be involved in this intermediate step, and the requirement for any network in which dc to ac inversion takes place to contain one or more active resistors which are properly connected in relation to the dc source. The relationship which exists between the characteristics of an active resistor and the maximum ac power which the active element can cause to be generated within any network is defined quantitatively and discussed in some detail. Heuristic in nature, the paper points out and discusses certain basic impossibilities, although its primary purpose is to be provocative and to provide useful guidelines and ideas for further basic research in the power-conditioning field."
"In conventional polyphase self-locking transistor-magnetic inverters, a single master inverter controls frequency, plays a key role in determining the phase-lock angles of all slave inverter units connected to it, and shares the load equally with these slaves. Implicit in this diversity of function is the need for the transistors in the master to carry magnetizing currents for a set of square-loop timing cores-one associated with each slave. The nature of these magnetizing currents is such that, in the presence of heavy loads, they tend to cause premature switching of the master inverter transistors and, hence, a loss of system synchronism. An arrangement is presented in which the load sharing and timing-locking functions of the master inverter are delegated to an in-phase slave and a submaster. The master inverter retains its key position in the operation of the system, but its residual functions, i.e., stimulation of the system and determination of system frequency, do not require great size and therefore permit simple and economic frequency regulation. The scheme has been applied to a 6-unit 3-phase twelve-step per cycle 1.5-kW inverter, with a nominal 28-volt input and a regulated operating frequency of 400 c/s."
"The design of a large very-high speed ferrite memory is described. The memory has a capacity of 8192 words, 72 bits per word, and has a cycle time of 110 ns and an access time of 67 ns. The storage devices are miniature ferrite cores, size 0.0075 by 0.0123 by 0.0029 inches, and are operated in a 2-core-per-bit mode. A planar array geometry with cores resting on a single ground plane is used to control drive-line parameters. Device switching speed and bit line recovery are treated as special problems. The design criteria and operational characteristics of the core, and the approach taken on the bit line recovery problem, are also presented."
"Fluted films are thin permalloy films consisting of narrow parallel strips (\\approx 10\\muwide) of alternating thickness (typicallyD_{0} = 200Å,D_{1} = 400 ... 500Å). These strips, parallel to the easy direction (xaxis), introduce a microshape anisotropy which stabilizes hard direction locked states. The two hard direction states with either positive or negativeycomponent of magnetization are used to characterize binary one or zero, respectively. In a word-organized memory, the extraordinary stability of these locked states can be used for a nondestructive readout. For write-in, overlapping of a word field with an advanced (one) or a delayed (zero) bit field of equal polarity is required. Word field or bit field alone leaves the locked states unchanged. Thus, in selected elements along a word line write-in is possible. Readout and write-in occur by the inherently fast magnetization rotation. The attainable speed of a readout is essentially a question of compensation of capacitive and inductive noise in the sense line. By use of dummy lines and fast differential sense amplifiers, sufficient noise cancellation appears possible to allow readout repetition rates of 50 Mc/s or above."
"Magnetic devices are well known for their inherent ruggedness, economy, and reliability. However, design of nonlinear electromagnetic circuits is difficult and, if done improperly, prevents the realization of the full benefits of magnetic devices. This paper describes a digital simulation technique which enables accurate performance prediction of circuits containing saturable magnetic devices and nonlinear electronic devices such as diodes, transistors, 4-layer diodes, silicon-controlled rectifiers, field-effect transistors, tunnel diodes, etc. More specifically, a computer program is described which was developed for a large scientific digital computer such as the IBM 7094 or equivalent. This computer program is user oriented ; it only requires topological input data describing the interconnections of the various circuit elements; and, in turn, produces graphical output plots similar to visual representations obtained in a laboratory from an oscilloscope. The heart of the computer program is the built-in transient solution procedure. From the input data describing the circuit topology the computer program writes its own internal equations, solves for steady-state initial conditions using an iterative Newton-Raphson technique and solves for the transient or time-history response using a combination time step integration and Newton-Raphson technique. The paper describes the digital simulation technique in further detail. It presents some of the mathematical models stored in the program, and illustrates the use of the technique by means of a practical circuit problem, namely the magnetic pulse-width modulator."
"Although a wide variety of multiaperture devices are known in the field of magnetic logic, applications which use linear ferrite with a small hysteresis instead of square-loop material are very rare. A novel device of the linear type is presented which lends itself to a wide variety of applications. The ferrite is shaped in the form of a figure eight. There are four control legs, each bearing a slot; a separate control winding is wound through each of these slots in such a manner as to saturate the local region of the slot only. The device obtained in this way is an all-magnetic bridge made from a single piece of ferrite. The four slots represent the four basic branches of the bridge. An ac signal is applied simultaneously to both input windings. The signal is applied in such a phase that the two input fluxes tend to cancel each other in the center branch. Therefore, no signal flux will be sensed in the output coil in case the bridge is balanced. If the bridge is unbalanced, some signal from one input will be transmitted to the output. Thus, the device can be used for amplitude control of a high-frequency signal."
"Cylindrical thin magnetic film elements for memory application have been extensively studied because they are low cost, undisturbed by external magnetic fields, and have relatively large output. However, continuity of magnetic material on the core conductor surface has made memory properties worse, since a memory region received the effect of adjacent regions by domain wall creepings. This paper will introduce a highly reliable cylindrical thin magnetic film memory, remarkably improved by applying a static magnetic field between the memory areas under neighboring word lines in a memory plane. The direction of the static magnetic field is along the hard axis and opposed to the direction of world fields. The application of static magnetic field results in the improvement of write-in characteristics, the rise in readout signal levels, and the increase in disturb threshold current."
"It has been observed that the magnetoelastic coefficient of thin permalloy films does not only depend on the Ni: Fe ratio but also on the film structure, which was varied by varying the deposition parameters and by annealing the films. By annealing the magnetoelastic coefficient may be shifted to more positive as well as to more negative values, depending on the annealing temperature, the gas atmosphere, and the deposition parameters, especially the crucible material. Typical thin-film effects, e.g., oxidation of the film surface and the grain boundaries, impurities enclosed within the film lattice during deposition and lattice imperfections are believed to be responsible for different magnetoelastic properties at the same film composition."
"Dynamic and nearly static magnetization reversal mechanisms in thin permalloy films are investigated experimentally using pulse techniques and vector locus configurations. At least for the driving field strength used, easy-axis switching waveforms indicate that wall motion is predominant when no transverse field is applied. At a given transverse bias field, the simultaneous pick-up signals from aligned and crossed loops show that the voltage-time integral at zero crossing time of the transverse signal becomes dominant for increasing drive field. The complicated irreversible magnetization phenomena on the astroid are illustrated experimentally on the coordinate system by the vector locus for a 10 kc/s sinusoidal driving field and pulse field having 0.5 ns rise-time. Wall motion and rotation during flux reversal are clearly distinguished on these configurations for various combinations of externally applied fields. The critical angle for coherent rotation is in good agreement with that derived from the Stoner-Wohlfarth model at a 10 kc/s sinusoidal field. However, for excess driving pulse fields, the dynamic vector locus suggests that until the walls nucleate and start to move, the coherent rotation continues over the critical angle suggested by the astroid. This gives a clear answer as to the cause of the nonlinearity on the plots of the inverse reversal time vs. driving field with the transverse bias field as a parameter."
"From the second variation of the integral of all free energies in thin magnetic films, an effective fieldh_{eff}(\\alpha)is deduced, which for real polycrystalline films is analogous to the Stoner-Wohlfarth fieldh(\\alpha)of ideal single-domain films. The effective field is composed of the single-domain field, two different stray fields, and a field caused by local anisotropies. Theh_{eff}(\\alpha)varies from point to point. As in the single-domain theory,h_{eff}(\\alpha) > 0means that the magnetization direction over the entire film is stable; in regions withh_{eff}(\\alpha) = 0, the local magnetization becomes unstable and turns by a very small angle to another stable state. After that, the domain structure is blocked by the intrinsic stray field. The blocking condition, which is the external single-domain field at which blocking occurs, is calculated as a function of film structure. The critical curve for stray-field blocking shows that the critical Stoner-Wohlfarth curve of the single-domain theory must not be used in discussing experiments on real polycrystalline films."
"The switching time Tsrequired for the circumferential component of magnetization of a ferrite memory toroid to reverse upon application of a circumferential step magnetizing field\\overrightharpoonup{H}_{s}can be reduced by the application of a static magnetizing field\\overrightharpoonup{H}_{0}orthogonal to\\overrightharpoonup{H}_{s}- This fact has been experimentally observed and reported by several investigators. Various analyses of flux reversal in toroids without an orthogonal field and in thin films (and equivalent geometries such as thin-walled ferrite tubes) with an orthogonal field have been given in the literature; no analyses have been given, however, for the more complicated case of a cross-magnetized \"thick\" toroid. [Cross-magnetization of a ferromagnetic body is defined to occur whenever two or more independent nonparallel (crossed) magnetizing fields are applied simultaneously to the body.] In this paper, the latter problem is analyzed theoretically for the case of incoherent (or nonuniform) rotation of the magnetization vector\\overrightharpoonup{M}_{s}and an expression is obtained relating Tsto|\\overrightharpoonup{H}_{s}|, |\\overrightharpoonup{H}_{0}|, and the core geometry. The results are corroborated experimentally."
"A thin film plated wire technique for producing large capacity digital delay lines is described, as well as the circuitry and experimental observations on laboratory designed models. The primary advantage of the scheme is the potential economy of the circuit which is amenable generally to batch fabrication techniques. Observed bit rate capabilities are 5 MHz for a 4-phase-driven arrangement and 3.3 MHz for a similar 3-phased circuit. The number of individual film elements each with an associated coupling resister is 1.33 per bit in the 4-phased case and 1.5 per bit in the 3-phased case, so that element utilization approaches that of a random access memory. The capacity of anisotropic thin films to provide signal flux gains in a sequential circuit is discussed in relation to the delay line operation. Included also is a brief discussion of the relatively large tolerances exhibited with respect to component parameters and drive signals."
"Anomalously fast flux reversal has been observed in films made of Ni-Fe layers separated by SiO. The speed of reversal increases as the number of identical layers of Ni-Fe increases. For a 5-layer film, the anomalous speed is observed in films with the SiO thickness as great as 1600 Å. Reversal time curves presented as a family of curves of1/\\tau = f(h_{\\perp})with hsas a parameter have two regions. The high-drive region has a lower slope in the laminated films when compared to the single-layer films. For this family of curves, a switching coefficientS_{w'}can be defined, as the inverse slope, in a manner similar to the definition of Swfor1/\\tau = f(h_{s})withh_{\\perp}as a parameter. For films with from two to five layers, Sw' is constant at1 \\times 10^{-3} \\mus and is smaller by an order of magnitude for the single-layer films. A dual loop experiment is used to confirm that coherent rotation is not a dominant mechanism. It is concluded that a model must satisfy the following criteria to successfully describe flux reversal in the laminated films: It must provide rapid flux reversal for fields less than Hk, an insensitivity to transverse fields either constant or pulsed, and an interaction that can survive over a wide range of SiO thicknesses."
"By the use of a suitable display circuit, it has been shown that the B-H loops of magnetically annealed cobalt ferrous ferrite toroids exhibit a re-entrant characteristic in which the field required to initiate flux reversal is appreciably higher than the minimum wall coercive field. From the switching behavior, it was concluded that flux reversal in this material was caused by the motion of a single 180° domain wall. By a single-shot pulse technique, the domain wall may be placed within the toroid at a position corresponding to any desired flux level within the limits of saturation. Annealing in the absence of a field has been found to create a third stable state at this flux level. For these tristable hysteresis loops the field Hsrequired to move the domain wall from its stable position gives a useful measure of its stability. In an attempt to clarify the mechanism involved, the influence of various parameters on Hshas been examined. Dependence on temperature and vacancy concentration has been determined for the rates of both the increase of Hsand its decay on the application of a large driving field. By varying the vacancy concentration, specimens may be prepared in which the decay time for Hsat room temperature varies considerably. The effect on Hsof varying the valuexin the ferrite composition CoxFe1-x2+Fe23+O4has also been determined. A simple model of wall stabilization is suggested to explain these observations."
"Previous observations suggest that each grain of a square-loop ferrite supports one (or two) plane 180-degree domain wall(s), and atremanence the wall is near to a grain boundary. Following Néel, the wall energy should fluctuate with wall position so that, in effect, its motion across the grain under the influence of an external field is impeded by a series of obstacles, and here their magnitude is assumed to be scattered in a Gaussian way about some mean value. On the basis of this model, it was possible to calculate the mean displacement of all the walls when subjected to a given sequence of drive fields. In particular, the delta noise flux was computed either as a function of the magnitude of the disturb field or the magnetization change produced by the first disturb, all in reduced units. The predictions were compared with the results of ballistic measurements upon a ring of manganese-magnesium ferrite and quite good agreement was obtained, without recourse to any adjustable parameters."
"Design of a polyfunction inversion device is described together with pertinent equations required for its development. The low-voltage converter under consideration was developed with switching drive power proportional to load current, utilizing multiple core techniques. Driven power transistors were used to rectify the output of the inverter-regulator to maintain system efficiency. Regulation was provided by using variable volt-second techniques which were external to the power transformer, permitting the power transformer to be fabricated from semi-square low-loss core material."
"A new thin film technique is described which has implications for use in a network of all-magnetic logic. The technique, called domain tip propagation logic (DTPL), makes use of the controlled growth of domains within low coercive force channels imbedded in a film element of generally high coercive force. Information is stored within regions of the low coercive force channels in the form of domains of reversed magnetization and propagated through the channels under the influence of an applied field by expansion of the domains at the domain tips. The direction of domain tip propagation can be controlled and the mutual interaction between domain tips within channels brought into proximity of each other. The direction of domain tip propagation is sensitive to the magnitude and direction of the applied field. This has made it possible to design new types of thin film shift registers which are of essentially unlimited length and high storage density and speed. Experimental DTPL shift registers with linear bit densities of 100 bits per inch have been constructed and operated with 300-ns clock pulses. As a result of these tests, it appears that the construction of multimegacycle DTPL shift registers with storage densities of the order of several thousands of bits per square inch is feasible. Magnetostatic interactions between channeled domain tips make any combinational operation possible and lead quite naturally to the construction of all the usual logic elements in a variety of ways. Information transfer is possible with what is essentially unlimited fan-out so that there is no need for regeneration in building up large complexes of logic. The restriction of reversal of the magnetization to small regions of film permits a high density of memory and logic elements. The principles of operation of various devices utilizing DTPL are described, as well as the techniques of device fabrication. Some of the static and dynamic properties of channeled domain tips which are pertinent to the operation of the devices presented will be discussed."
"The authors have developed a new type single-phase to 3-phase electric power converter, voltano converter. With simple construction it produces fairly well-balanced 3-phase output power from a single-phase power source at high efficiency. The construction and the characteristics of the voltano converter are presented ; the characteristics show that the efficiency is more than 90 percent for a 2kVA voltano converter. The operating mechanism of the converter is explained, presenting a vector calculator, which gives, not only various circuit quantities in steady-state operation, but also an intuitive understanding of the operating mechanism."
"Unusually large uniaxial anisotropies were observed when Permalloy films were prepared for microwave phonon generation. These films were formed on single-crystal quarts substrates. To investigate the origin of this anisotropy a number of Permalloy films having negative (92% Ni-8% Fe), near zero (83% Ni-17% Fe), and positive (70% Ni-30% Fe) magnetostriction were formed onto single-crystal quartz squares at substrate temperatures varying from room temperature to 398°C. The anisotropy increased with increasing substrate temperatures. The anisotropy constant (K) for the 92-8 and 70-30 compositions ranged from 6.0 x 103 erg/cc for room temperature films to 2.0 X 105 erg/cc for films evaporated at ~390°C. K for the 83-17 composition ranged from 4.0 X 103 erg/cc to 1.0 X 104 erg/cc for the same temperature. At first it was believed that the large anisotropy could be attributed to epitaxial growth of the Permalloy films onto the quarts. However, reflection electron diffraction showed the films to be completely randomly oriented. Furthermore, it was evident that the crystallite size in films evaporated onto glass and single-crystal quartz substrates were essentially the same for a given substrate temperature."
"A mathematical model for the Marzolf tunnel diode inverter is described. The nonlinear elements, a square-loop magnetic core, and two tunnel diodes are handled analytically by assuming a 4-segment piecewise linear model for the core and a nonlinear resistance, paralleled by a linear capacitance, for each of the tunnel diodes. A fourth-degree polynomial approximates the nonlinear resistance. On each linear flux segment, the system of equations for the inverter are reduced to a single nonlinear second-ordered differential equation which has the form of Rayleigh's equation. The relaxation oscillations predicted by the Rayleigh equation are in good agreement with experimental results. In particular, the model predicts : 1) the amplitude and period of the square-wave output, 2) the magnitude of the load voltage spikes which occur during switching, and 3) the shift to higher frequency operation caused by overload and/or inadequate supply voltages. Errors in 1) ranged from a few percent at no load to about 12 percent at maximum load."
"The existence of a coupling between the magnetizations of two ferromagnetic films, separated by a thin layer of Au or of Cr, has been demonstrated previously. We have studied the modification of this coupling by controlled oxidation, after evaporation of the intermediate layer. The interaction energy decreases in the same manner for both Cr and Au intermediate layers, independent of the evaporation temperature of these layers. The rate of decrease is a function of the temperature at which the first magnetic film is prepared. From these experiments we conclude that in both cases the coupling results from the existence of magnetic bridges between the magnetic layers, passing through gaps in the intermediate layer. A model for the behavior of the spins in such a bridge is presented and its consequences are compared with the experimental results."
"This paper presents a noncontinuum method of calculation which is suitable for treating problems for which the usual treatment by the micromagnetic continuum theory exhibits difficulties. Two simple examples are given: 1) Two superficially coupled ferromagnetic films (each 20 atomic layers thick) with easy axes at a right angle 2) A system consisting of an isotropic ferromagnetic film (8 atomic layers thick) and a uniaxial antiferromagnetic film (4 atomic layers thick). Magnetization distributions and hysteresis loops are calculated."
"A magnetic circuit is described wherein a pair of matched square-loop magnetic cores are connected in a balanced manner to act as a sensitive null-detector called a balanced magnetic comparator. A material characteristic and a mode of operation that significantly increase the sensitivity over that of the basic circuit are also described. The sensitivity of the balanced magnetic comparator is such that low-level transducers/sensors can be directly connected to the input winding and produce an unbalanced condition. Thus, by means of successive approximation, the measurand signal from a sensor can be converted to digital form without interposing semiconductor amplifiers. Comparator circuits have been operated over a temperature range of 100°C with a resolution of 10 μA, and a 7-bit accuracy. In this use as an A-D converter the balanced magnetic comparator is unbalanced by the current output from a transducer, and balance is restored by precision weight currents. These weight currents can be generated in pulse form by transistorized circuits that use additional comparators operating in a dynamic mode. In this dynamic mode the time function of the output waveform is used, rather than polarity, as in the A-D converter. These comparators provide feedback control to the transistors in order to achieve the necessary precision in the weight-current pulses. Using a balanced comparator rather than a single square-loop core has a major advantage in that the offset contributed by the threshold of a single core is eliminated."
"The texture of oriented specimens of barium ferrite sintered at temperatures between 1100 and 1350°C was measured radiographically and magnetically. Upon sintering, the large, better oriented crystallites grow, at the expense of the smaller ones whose orientation is not as good. The changes this involves in the crystal texture were determined quantitatively. The crystallites are arranged in the form of a simple, normal fibre-texture, with thecaxis as the fibre axis and with the lattice in random azimuthal position around thecaxis. The frequency of thecaxes in the preferred direction amounted to about 14 with the 1100°C specimen and to about 41 with the 1350°C specimen (measured in units of the non-oriented specimen). From the texture, the remanence and its angular dependence can be calculated on the assumption that, upon de-energizing of the saturating field, the vectors of magnetization in the individual crystallites swing back into the nearestcaxis and there is no interaction between neighboring crystallites. Densely sintered specimens showed good agreement between theory and experiment. If, however, porosity cannot be neglected, for instance 15 percent, the measured angular dependence of the remanence is less pronounced than the calculated one which indicates the effect of anisotropic internal demagnetization."
"A study is made of the magnetization dispersion of polycrystalline thin ferromagnetic films with induced uniaxial magnetic anisotropy. The general formula for the so-called magnetization-induced anisotropy in a crystallite of cubic symmetry is established in order to prove that in a polycrystalline thin film this anisotropy necessarily varies from one crystallite to the next. A calculation is then made to see how these variations and the variations of the magnetocrystalline anisotropy directions affect the magnetization dispersion. It is found that in general the resulting dispersion is larger than that obtained from a superposition of magnetocrystalline anisotropy and a uniform uniaxial anisotropy. It also seems that, contrary to what is generally assumed, the dispersion does not decrease monotonically with increasing uniaxial anisotropy (Ku), but that it initially decreases (for Kn< magnetocrystalline anisotropy energy) until it reaches a minimum, and then increases with Ku. On the other hand, the dispersion does not vanish even if magnetostriction and magnetocrystalline energy are zero. Thus it is shown how the experimental results of Wolf [13], on the dispersion of Ni Fe Co thin films, could be qualitatively explained by this theory."
"Iron whiskers, with axes in\\langle111\\rangledirections and {110} faces separated by {112} faces, have been grown, and the domain patterns present were observed using the powder pattern technique. The structure consists of six main domains magnetized at ±55° to the axis in\\langle100\\rangleeasy directions. The main walls are 90° walls having a zig-zag structure and meet the whisker surfaces in the {112} faces. These walls are normal zig-zag walls but are here seen obliquely, producing a surface zig-zag angle of 147°. At these faces there is a normal component of magnetization, and complex closure structures form to reduce the resulting magnetostatic energy. Two different types of closure structure are observed and the different patterns appear on alternate main domains. In the {110} faces the magnetization is in the surface so that no closure structure is necessary. The effect of applying magnetic fields perpendicular and parallel to the whisker axis was studied: in the former case the changes occurred by displacement of the junction of the walls, while in the latter, bodily movement of the main walls and growth of new walls in {112} planes appeared to take place. Tension was applied along the whisker axis, and the resultant changes in the domain pattern were caused by the interaction of the applied stress with the two different types of closure structure. At high applied stresses, a sudden change occurred to a complex surface structure with the disappearance of the original zig-zag walls; this pattern remained when the stress was removed."
"An experimental technique has been used to explore the physicochemical interactions between a MnZn ferrite and the atmosphere in which it is fired. The technique uses a thermo-balance and an oxygen analyzer. A decrease of the atmospheric oxygen content or an increase of the sintering temperature results in an increase in weight loss of a sample during sintering. This weight loss was attributed primarily to the sublimation of zinc oxide. From cooling studies, the amount of oxidation was found to be dependent on the oxygen content of the atmosphere and the density of the specimen. The results are interpreted in light of the availability and diffusivity of oxygen through the sample. The disaccommodation was found to increase with the atmospheric oxygen content during sintering and to be dependent on the amount of oxidation during cooling. The data are in agreement with models which indicate the influence of cation vacancies on disaccommodation. The temperature dependence of the permeability was studied and found to be related to a shift in the secondary peak that is caused by compositional changes during sintering and cooling. An example is given illustrating the use of the experimental technique as a diagnostic tool to determine the relative oxygen content of ferrites fired under commercial conditions."
"In the last 15 years a great number of new devices for the frequency selection of electrical signals has been developed. Primarily they use mechanically vibrating resonators, which are driven by electromechanical transducers. Two different classes exist. In Class 1, mechanical properties are transposed by means of electromechanical conversion effects to the electrical terminal of the transducer. These devices are only electrically mounted in an electrical filter. The other class (Class 2) of devices is more complicated. After conversion of electrical energy to mechanical energy, mechanical vibrations are transmitted into a pure mechanical filterstructure. Finally the transmitted frequencies are reconverted into electrical vibrations by means of a second transducer. In these two classes of electromechanical filters, magnetic materials play a very important role. The transducers mainly are made of magnetostrictive materials, preferrable special Ni-Zn ferrites with additives for getting a good temperature behavior. For these transducer materials the electromechanical coupling coefficientkmust be as high as needed or (Class 2) as stable as possible with respect to temperature and aging. TheQ-factor of mechanical resonances must also overcome a minimal value. All these properties are influenced by the pure magnetic properties in a complicated way. By use of the temperature dependence of the magnetic anisotropy of cobalt-additives it is possible to compensate the temperature dependence of the mechanical resonance frequency of magnetostrictive resonators (bars, rings, tubes, etc.). For getting a linear conversion effect, transducers have to be polarized by permanent magnets. Because of the high stability requirements for mechanical resonators in pure mechanical filter structures of Class 2 filters, metallic resonators and coupling elements are used. The resonators must be made of special Ni-Fe alloys, worked for getting a high mechanicalQ-factor, a low-frequency temperature coefficient for the special vibration mode used in the filter and a low aging rate for resonance frequency. The low temperature coefficient is achieved by an adjustment of the interaction of magnetostriction and internal stresses and their temperature dependence. The internal stresses are created by a cold working process ; by a final precipitation hardening, using additives like beryllium or titanium, the low aging rate is guaranteed, plus a value of the frequency coefficient. Now aging rates for frequency of approximately 10-8per day or better are possible. The temperature coefficient is1 \\times 10^{6}/°C or better, theQ-factor approximately2 \\times 10^{4}. At the end of this report, some applications of these magnetic materials in filters and resonators are shown."
"The frequency, which can be attained with conventional static inverters, is limited by the turn-off time of the controlled rectifiers. Resonant circuit inverters with controlled rectifiers and saturable reactors in combination make it possible to generate frequencies whose half-wave duration is equal to or less than, the turn-off time of the controlled rectifiers. When using thyristors for this purpose, resonant circuit inverters can be built for frequencies up to about 25 kc. The inverters described in this paper are suited as medium frequency generators for inductive heating purposes. In this case the inductor coil is a component of the resonant circuit. The workpiece is heated up by an effective frequency much higher than the frequency with which the thyristors are fired."
"The series of chromites TCrO3(T = rare earth and Y) has been synthetized and investigated magnetically and by neutron diffraction. The Néel temperatures of the chromium spin ordering decrease with decreasing rare earth radius from θN1(La) = 282°K to θN1(Lu) = 112.4° K. The chromium spin configuration has a strong antiferromagnetic and a weak ferromagnetic component. The latter induces a measurable ferromagnetic polarization on the rare earth which sometimes shows occurrence of compensation temperatures (Gd, Tm). At low temperatures (<16° K) the rare earth orders as seen from susceptibility and neutron diffraction measurements. Susceptibility and magnetization data at high and low temperatures will be given and discussed. The different types of rare earth ordering observed by neutron diffraction at low temperatures will be discussed with special emphasis on the slacking fault type of spin disorder observed in TbCrO3."
"It is well known that magnetic properties greatly depend on the partial oxygen pressure exerted during sintering of ferrites. This is particularly true for manganese ferrites, since manganese is able to acquire different valences during sintering. The interchange of the ions by diffusion occurs on the surface of the core. Atmospheric conditions must be such that no reception or delivery of gas or metal ions is possible. The first step in controlling these reactions is the nitrogen sintering of Mn-Zn ferrites. According to recent research done for the improvement of quality, it is necessary to supervise first of all the zinc evaporation of the core surface anff also the amount of oxygen in the core. The vapor tension of zinc oxide is substantially higher than that of the other metal ions. These properties are distinctly shown during sintering of ferrites with high permeability. By careful handling during production, using pure oxides and by adjusted sintering methods which keep zinc evaporation to a minimum, we succeeded in raising the permeability of Mn-Zn ferrites to 40 000. The crystallite size of these specimens was 80 μm ; their porosity was low, amounting to approximately one percent. In case zinc evaporation does not remain relatively small, permeabilities are obtained between 15 000 and 25 000 only. The surface film of the core will then contain up to one mol percent zinc oxide less than the core interior. When etching off the detrimental film, which leads to strong stresses in the core interior, one again obtains permeabilities about 35 000. The value of the initial permeability in the sphere of the secondary maximum will be mainly determined by the magnetostrictive and mechanic tensions when crystalline anisotropy diminishes. According to magnetostrictive measurements of high permeable ferrites,|\\lambda|= 1.5\\times10^{-6}may be expected, thus leading to\\mu_{a} \\approx 100 000. A similar influence of this surface film with low zinc content also occurs with Mn-Zn ferrites of\\mu \\approx 2000. By grinding, lapping, or etching off these anomalous films, the\\mu-Tcurve is altered, particularly in the range of the primary and secondary maxima. An improvement of the hysteresis losses at 25°C occurs only with a simultaneous increase of permeability. The increase of the zinc loss on the surface depends on the velocity of flow caused by the supply of N2and on increased sintering temperatures."
"The magnetic anisotropy of a FeNi 50/50 single crystal changes considerably when the sample is ordered by irradiation in a magnetic field, showing either cubic or quadratic symmetry in the ordered state, according to the direction of the field. The experimental values of the anisotropy constants are interpreted in terms of the coupled-crystallite model proposed by Néel and confirmed by X-ray measurements. The order-disorder transformation diagrams for FeNi- and FeNi3-type order are studied in the composition range of 37 to 70 percent of nickel. The simultaneous existence of the two types of order is remarked. In the composition range from 50 to 75 percent of nickel, a detailed study of the observed magnetecrystalline symmetry shows up the different contributions of FeNi, FeNi2, and directional order. The Curie temperature in the ordered state is higher than that in the disordered state, the difference between the two values reaches 300° for same composition."
"The interaction between different lattice defects and domain walls yields different temperature dependence of the coercive force Hc. This paper presents an experimental study of the temperature variation of the coercive field of plastically deformed nickel single crystals during recovery within the recovery stages III and IV. Hcis found to be a very sensitive quantity for the indication of recovery processes, if it is measured at low temperatures (78° K). A total recovery rate\\DeltaH_{c}/H_{c}in these stages between 6 and 15 percent is observed, depending on orientation. It is very difficult to separate stages III and IV, which show a complicated substructure. The temperature dependence of Hcis expressed in the formH_{c} = H_{co} \\cdot K_{1}^{-n}(K1is the first constant of magnetocrystalline energy). The powernis found to lie near one for\\langle100\\ranglecrystals, between 1/4 and 1/2 for\\langle111\\rangleand between 1/12 and 1/8 for\\langle110\\rangleand\\langlemedium\\rangleorientation. The variation ofnwith annealing temperature indicates a great influence of the dislocation network on the recovery process in stage IV."
"Investigations of the domain structure (DS) of nickel single crystals of cylindrical and prismatic form with [100] and [110] axes are reported. Using the Bitter technique we observe the colloid pattern on all faces around the crystal axis. The total DS is divided into the basic DS and the closure DS. The basic DS of the [110] crystals is a simple plate structure. The plates (approximate width 0.05 mm) are normal to the crystal axis and each consist of a single elementary domain. Neighboring plates are separated by 71° Bloch walls (forH_{e} = 0). The basic DS of the [100] crystals also consists of plates (0.13 mm) normal to the axis, but now each plate contains several elementary domains; we call this a composed plate structure. In axial direction adjacent domains are separated by 109° Bloch walls. The basic DS is essentially the same in prismatic and cylindrical crystals. The closure DS of the [110] crystal forms a pattern of lines normal to the axis. The most remarkable result is, that the number of lines increases with increasing field; the closure DS varies not only quantitatively, but qualitatively with the field. We succeed in exploring many details of the secondary structure, so that we can draw quite a complete picture of the DS of these nickel crystals."
"An isotropic soft magnetic layer as a \"flux keeper\" on top of a magnetic thin-film memory matrix reduces the stray fields of both the film spots and the drive lines. The magnetostatic field distribution around and within a homogeneously magnetized rectangular film spot near a homogeneous, isotropic magnetic layer of a) infinite and b) finite thickness is calculated. Problem a has been solved in three dimensions by introducing image magnetizations. A solution of problem b in two dimensions has been derived using a special mathematical method to obtain and to superpose particular solutions of Poisson's equation. As results, the demagnetizing field and the part of the flux closing through the substrate are given in dependence on the flux keeper's permeability, thickness, and distance from the film. The field of a stripline below the flux keeper is also calculated with some simplifications. Increase of usable drive field and decrease of stray field of the lines dependent on geometry and keeper's permeability are shown. As shown by measurements, the modification of the static and dynamic fields of spots and lines leads to considerable improvements in sense voltages as well as in disturb and switching thresholds of the film spots. The results are discussed with respect to the contributions of the various field effects."
"With a suitable arrangement of both semiconductor and electrodes, one can make a device of InSb, which exhibits a significant increase of ohmic resistance when placed in a magnetic field. An alloy of InSb is produced with 1.8 percent by weight of NiSb, the latter in the form of parallel arranged needles about 1 μ in diameter. Because of their high electrical conductivity) these needles eliminate the Hall effect and cause a great change of resistance when the material is subjected to a magnetic field. The field plate can be used for measuring fields between 10-3G and 100 kG."
"A method of characterization of the parametrical behavior of ferromagnetics is proposed, based on the concept of instantaneous parameters. Instantaneous permeability and instantaneous resistivity introduced as small signal parameters are discussed from both physical and engineering points of view. The role of domain walls motion model is emphasized, because of the predominance of this model within the frequency range of common practical interest. The measuring technique is described and some experimental results are quoted, pertinent to low-coercivity square-loop ferrite material of Mn-Mg type. The characteristics of the instantaneous parameters, plotted as the functions of magnetization state, can be easily recalculated into time functions. Thus, the new parameters advanced can be utilized directly in the analysis of the networks with time-varying parameters. This work refers to the formal treatments of parametric circuits, such as the generalized theory of the frequency-converting networks developed by Duinker [17]. It is believed, that the characteristic parameters advanced are of better adequacy and lead to more accurate results than are obtainable by the use of analytical B-H curve approximations, which sometimes completely fail the real physical and electrical properties of the magnetic circuits under parametric excitation."
"The principle underlying the method of automatic measurement of air gap flux densities is discussed. With this, a search coil is used and the voltage by time area is converted into a sequences of pulses in a voltage frequency transformer. An after-connected counter effects indication of the voltage by time area in decimal form. The measuring program can be punched in digital form on a tape. The accuracy obtainable as well as the various sources of errors are dealt with."
"A new technique for information display [1] is described which makes use of a microdomain structure existing in a certain class of thin magnetic films. The display element consists of a planar, hermetically sealed unit containing an RIS 1 magnetic film and an overlying colloidal suspension of iron oxide. The effect of the \"stripe\" domain structure of the magnetic film upon the colloid is such as to furnish an element which is capable of diffracting light incident upon the surface of the element in a manner similar to that of a diffraction grating. The interference phenomena are, however, controllable by a magnetic field applied to cause changes in the distribution of the magnetization within the film. Both the intensity and color of the diffracted light can be modified by the applied field and such modification, once produced, is permanent until subsequent alteration is required. Command of the element can be accomplished by coincident drive currents in matrix fashion as is common in the operation of planar magnetic memories. Electrically selectable gray scale and color can be achieved. In addition to the display capability of the element, there is the possibility of utilizing the enclosed magnetic medium as a memory store. The feasibility of making manual entries of information into the memory-display has been demonstrated as well. Several means of writing into and reading from the elements are discussed. Measurements performed on experimental RIS 1 display panels indicate a brightness of over 30L and a contrast ratio of greater than 70 to 1. Display element switching times of the order of 30 ns and image formation times of approximately 10 ms have been measured."
"The 180°-Bloch wall on the surface of bulk silicon iron was studied by means of the magneto-optical Kerr effect. As the Bloch wall thickness amounts to about 1000-2000 Å, the structure of the wall cannot be dissolved by an optical microscope. Only a diffraction pattern may be obtained as image of the wall. Though the form of the diffraction pattern shows no relation to the wall structure, the brightness will increase with wall width. By this effect it should be possible to determine the wall thickness. In our experiment, a 180°-Bloch wall was studied on the"
"An iterative design procedure for optimum placement of vapor-deposited Nb3Sn ribbon superconductors in high-field large-bore modular magnets is described. The mechanical strength, current-carrying capabilities, and electromagnetic stability of the ribbons are independently adjustable to produce the various conductors required. An existing 8.4-cm-bore 8-tesla magnet is used to illustrate a modular-type construction. Use of the iterative process to satisfy sometimes conflicting mechanical, electromagnetic, and cryogenic requirements is detailed in a review of the design of a 15-cm-bore 15-tesla superconductive magnet which is now under construction."
"Especially high homogeneity magnets for nuclear and electronic resonance were studied. The magnet for nuclear resonance is a sixth-order solenoid with a 4.5 cm room temperature access. The maximum field obtained is 58 kG with an homogeneity of5 \\cdot 10^{-7}in two cm3. Computation was made using Garrett's method with an electronic computer. The dimensions were optimized in order to obtain a sixth-order field with a minimum weight of superconducting wire. They are: length 338 mm, inner diameter 65.5 mm, outer diameter 161 mm. This solenoid is wound with a single wire of superconducting alloy NbZr. The measured inductance of the solenoid is 300 henry and at maximum field it stores an energy of around 45 000 joules. Very good results have been obtained with this magnet on the protons in high resolution nuclear magnetic resonance at 180 MHz. The magnet for electronic resonance is simple solenoid wound with a 7-strand cable in NbZr alloy. Its dimensions are: length 20.7 cm, inner diameter 2.22 cm, outer diameter 9.42 cm, and the field homogeneity is 10-4one cm3. This magnet provides the field for a 2-mm wavelength electronic spectrometer. With this spectrometer transition has been observed between fundamental levels of trivalent vanadium ion in Al2O2at 4.2°K and, by this means, thegfactor and the zero field splitting of this ion have been accurately determined."
"The orientation of a passive communications satellite with respect to the earth can be adjusted by using an electromagnetic actuator which is rigidly mounted on the structure of the satellite. The actuator consists of three mutually-orthogonal air-cored coils on the skin of the satellite. If any one of the coils is excited by current, the magnetic field generated by it tends to rotate the satellite until the generated field and the terrestrial magnetic field are aligned. The activation of the coils also produces various undesirable forces which must be supported by the satellite structure. If the actuator is mounted on an ultra-thin structure, such as the Echo II Satellite balloon, these forces can have damaging effects. In this paper equations are derived for the adjusting torque and for the undesirable forces. The conclusion reached is that the compressive force upon the coil loops caused by the terrestrial field poses the most serious danger to the satellite structure."
"The magnetoresistive amplifier is usually implemented by allowing an input signal current to modulate a magnetic field which, in turn, produces a change in the resistance of an active element in the output portion of the device. Amplifiers of this type may be classified either as a conventional type, which utilizes the normal magnetoresistive effect of the active material, or as a type which employs the characteristics of a superconducting element operating in the resistive transition region. In both cases, there has been reported experimental data which indicates that the power gain for these amplifiers is a function of the biasing magnetic field (or biasing current), and that an optimal value of the bias field exists which results in a maximum value of the power gain. Analytical methods of determining these optimal values are derived and theoretical predictions based on these methods are shown to be consistent with the experimental results."
"The technical feasibility of a simple, high-performance, read-only memory (ROM) has been demonstrated. This memory uses apertured sheets of doctor-bladed linear ferrites with printed information patterns. It offers favorable sense-signal/drive-current ratios, low current-level electronics, one diode/word decoding matrix, straightforward fabrication, and compact construction. A prototype memory of 32 words, each of 36 bits, has been successfully demonstrated with a 50-ns cycle time (20-Mc repetition rate). A large ROM of 128 words, 50 bits each, was also operated satisfactorily."
"Saturation of ferrite frequency doublers due to the reaction of the generated second-harmonic field back on the sample, the excitation of unstable spin waves by transverse pumping, and the excitation of unstable spin waves by longitudinal pumping is investigated experimentally. An expression for the second-harmonic power as a function of the power absorbed by the ferrite, which holds for any degree of processional motion ellipticity of the magnetization, is derived including the effect of the reaction field. An experimental method of observing the three saturation effects through the introduction of an externally impressed second-harmonic field is described. Experimental observations of all three saturation mechanisms are reported, and the results are compared with theory. The upper bound on conversion efficiency of a ferrite doubler, assuming adequate output coupling circuits can be devised, is set by longitudinally-pumped spin waves. This upper bound on efficiency is measured experimentally for a typical doubler."
"The stable propagation of ones and zeros in magnetic shift registers composed of cores coupled with wire only requires that the interstage flux gain be less than unity for small flux transfers and greater than unity for large flux transfers. In practice, it is found that these circuits may be made bistable even without the use of clipper cores on the coupling loop. Bennion and Crane [1] have attributed this nonlinear gain phenomenon to the inductance of the coupling loop which effectively subtracts a contribution from the flux transferred between stages. This flux is eventually dissipated in the loop resistance. In the present paper an attempt is made to verify this conclusion by experiments and by applying a highly simplified model to the transfer process. It is concluded that, if clipper cores are not used, both resistance and inductance are indeed required in the coupling loop if bistable operation is to be achieved."
"A magnetometric demagnetization tensor is defined for uniformly-magnetized samples of arbitrary geometry. It is shown that this is a real symmetric tensor with non-negative diagonal elements and unit trace. Diagonalization of the magnetometric demagnetization tensor yields the Brown-Morrish equivalent ellipsoid and the conclusion that Stoner-Wohlfarth particles of any surface geometry have only two easy directions of magnetization. Transformation of the tensor, subject to periodicity constraints, leads to the conclusion that uniformly-magnetized samples with rotational periodicity, of ordern \\geq 3about a single axis, have isotropic behavior perpendicular to that axis. It is also shown that if a sample has spherical periodicity with four or more vertices it does not exhibit shape anisotropy. Various methods for determining the numerical values of the tensor elements are presented."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"D.I. Gordon, R.H. Lundsten, and R.A. Chiarodo, authors of the above-named article, which appeared on pp. 330-337 in the December, 1965 issue of this TRANSACTIONS, have noted various corrections to text and equations on pages 331 and 334."
"The properties that make Nb3Sn an outstanding material for use in high-field superconducting solenoids are its high critical temperature (18.1°K), its high critical current density (in excess of 200 000 A/cm2at 100 kG and 4.2°K), and its high critical field (221 kG at 4.2°K). Since Nb3Sn is a brittle material, special techniques are required for its use. These techniques fall into two groups : 1) the conductor is initially fabricated from Nb and Sn in an unalloyed configuration, and this conductor is then wound into a solenoid and converted to Nb3Sn by heat treatment of the entire solenoid; 2) the alloyed Nb3Sn conductor is prepared in a very thin configuration. Thus, although it is brittle, it is still flexible enough to be wound directly into a finished solenoid. Extensive experimentation with the second technique has been undertaken and will be discussed with particular emphasis on the properties of laminated conductors as confirmed by performance of superconducting solenoids."
"The total\\dot{\\phi}(t)waveform of a square-loop magnetic core switched by MMFF(t)from negative remanence\\phi = -\\phi_{r}is composed of elastic\\dot{\\phi}_{\\epsilon}(t), decaying inelastic\\dot{\\phi}_{i}(t), and bell-shaped main inelastic\\dot{\\phi}_{ma}(t). The worst delta noise in a coincident-current memory core pair is essentially\\dot{\\phi}_{i}(t). The sources of these components and the static\\phi(F)curve are explained qualitatively by means of the random variations of the energy gradient vs. domain-wall position: elastic wall displacements and elastic rotation of magnetization induce\\dot{\\phi}_{\\epsilon}(t); minor inelastic wall displacements of essentially constant wall areas induce\\dot{\\phi}_{i}(t); and major inelastic wall displacements (involving domain collisions) of varying wall areas induce\\dot{\\phi}_{ma}(t). Semiempirical models for the\\dot{\\phi}components are based on the characteristics of these displacements. A satisfactory agreement is obtained between these models and\\dot{\\phi}(t)oscillograms of a thin ferrite core."
"The digital recording density of magnetic media can be improved by the development of thin ferromagnetic coatings having a high coercive force. An experimental study of the influence of zinc on the coercive force of chemically reduced cobalt-phosphorus films is presented. Incorporation of zinc increases the coercive force of cobalt-phosphorus films on Mylar substrates by a factor of 2 to 60. Cobalt-zinc-phosphorus films exhibited coercivities ranging from 300 to 1200 Oe, depending on the preparation conditions. The influence of substrate and solution parameters, such as hypophosphite ion concentration, zinc concentration, and pH are discussed with respect to the hysteresis properties of the films. The influence of zinc on the coercivity is attributed to increased magnetic isolation of the cobalt particles and to a modification of particle size."
"A model is presented which describes the flux-switching processes in a class of batch-fabricated magnetic memory structures. These structures consist of crossed word and bit conductors embedded in a sheet of ferromagnetic material. The model predicts, with fair accuracy, bit-current threshold vs. word current as a function of device geometry. It also makes semiquantitative predictions of flux switched as a function of the write currents. The model is applied to the case of thin ribbon conductors, and the flux efficiency is computed for different device geometries."
"Several methods are described based on the magnetoresistance and the planar Hall effect by which the anisotropy field strength Hkmay be determined. The Hkvalues deduced from the different methods are discussed especially with respect to their dependence upon the magnetization ripple and on distinctH_{c}/H_{k}ratios. Although some of the reviewed methods yield Hkvalues not influenced by the ripple hysteresis, only the planar Hall effect method and the modified Kobelev method enable rapid measurements or continuous recording of Hk. These methods are, therefore, found to be especially suitable for measurements of the Hkrelaxation during annealing experiments."
"In a thin magnetic film memory, an easy axis field due to the conducting surrounding of the cell is to be taken into account in order to evaluate the sense signal corresponding to a word pulse in the hard axis. For a simplified switching model, diagrams demonstrate the influence of the easy axis field on the sense pulse amplitude and width and the signal-to-word-noise ratios. Optimum word pulses yielding maximum signal-to-noise ratios are given. Finally, the calculated and measured sense pulse amplitudes are compared."
"The process is presented for Ni-Zn ferrites featuring high saturation magnetization (5000 G) and low dielectric loss. The material has been applied to microwave components, e.g., field displacement isolators) phase shifters) and amplitude modulators for frequencies within 18.0 up to 26.S Gc/s. The study of field displacement isolators gave rise to the establishment of some general relationships practical for design of these components."
"The properties of lithium-alumina substituted ferrites are intended for microwave devices. It is possible to distinguish two main cases. In the first, the materials are magnetically saturated and in the second, the materials work in the hysteresis loop region. Data on lithium-alumina polycristalline materials from the family Li2O; 5(1-x) [(1-y)Fe2O3,yAl2O3];zMnO2; are given,xandzbeing chosen to optimize the dielectric properties. At room temperature, asyis varied from 0 to 0.20, the properties of these materials vary in the following manner: saturation magnetization 4π Ms, from 3770 to 1340 G; Curie temperature θcfrom 590 to 430 °C. The coercitive forceHc, the squareness ratioR, and linewidth\\DeltaHdepend upon the firing conditions and technology chosen. Measured values are in theHc= 1.1- to 2.5-Oe range andR= 0.75 to 0.92 range. These properties appear satisfactory for microwave devices and, in particular, for latching devices aboveS-band frequencies."
"The possibility of obtaining directional-order effects by annealing in a magnetic field, at temperatures lower than those at which the phenomenon is usually observed, has been examined on several iron-nickel alloys by stimulating the diffusion processes with an excess of vacancies introduced by quenching from high temperatures. The results refer to polycrystalline specimens. Directional order appears, after annealing at temperatures as low as 260°C on specimens quenched from 1350°C as compared to about 420°C for nonquenched specimens. For low iron concentrations, on the alloy Fe 15-Ni 85, the amount of directional order obtained increases almost linearly withT - T_{c}, whereTis the annealing temperature and Tcthe Curie temperature, thus, confirming the Néel theory. On Fe 40-Ni 60 and Fe 50-Ni 50 alloys the values of the induced anisotropy energy, down to temperatures of about 400°C, are close to the values obtained by Marchand et al. [1] by magnetic annealing under neutron irradiation. The results are also in agreement with those of Dekhtyar and Kazantseva [2] and actually explain the observed increase in coercive force when annealing specimens of a Fe 50-Ni 50 alloy quenched from 1200°C. In contrast, when annealing these quenched alloys in a magnetic field at temperatures of 320°C or lower, a sudden large drop of the induced anisotropy energy is observed, probably corresponding to large deviations from ideality of the solid solution and short range ordering. The observed changes of resistivity are, however, small, i.e., three percent. These last results on quenched Fe 40-Ni 60 and Fe 50-Ni 50 alloys are, therefore very different from those obtained on the same alloys by fast neutron bombardment and the reason for the difference is not considered to be fully understood."
"If the field Hrrequired to initiate flux reversal exceeds the Hwrequired to continue reversal, a re-entrant hysteresis loop results. This has been observed in magnetically annealed cobalt-ferrous ferrites in which Hrat 10 to 20 Oe may be as high as1.5 \\times H_{w}at room temperature. Frequently, these ferrites are bistable and show no minor loops. Flux reversal appears to involve only one domain wall, giving rise to high squareness but slow switching ; typical values for a 12-mm toroid areR_{s} = 0.99ands = 540 \\mus Oe. Intermediate stabilized magnetization states have been introduced into these materials by a simple annealing procedure. Switching now occurs between three or more magnetization states, providing the basis for a multistable device. Details of preparation and measurement are given and the results discussed in terms of various models."
"The enhancement of the Kerr magneto-optic effect by overcoating a ferromagnetic film with a dielectric film is studied. It is treated as an impedance-matching problem for the light wave. Closed form solutions are obtained for the polar Kerr effect. The same analysis, with modifications, can be applied to the longitudinal Kerr effect. The effect of the dielectric thickness on the enhancement is continuously monitored with a laser beam (λ = 6328Å) during the dielectric film deposition. The amplification of the longitudinal Kerr signal with SiO films on iron film is of the order of five, and the enhancement varies periodically as a function of dielectric thickness. The experimentally observed period, 1600Å, agrees well with the calculated value. The sense ofB-Hloops, which also varies periodically as a function of the dielectric thickness, is explainable in terms of the phase factor which appears in the difference between the reflection coefficients."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"The time-dependent Maxwell equations without displacement current terms are solved above, within, and below a doubly infinite slab of finite conductivity and arbitrary thicknessDwith a prescribed current in an infinitely long wire above and parallel to the slab. Closed analytic expressions for the magnetic and electric field above the ground plane are obtained by transform methods in terms of a Laplace transform variable representing time. For finiteDthe results in actual time are computed by numerical inversion of the Laplace transform; forD = \\infinthey are given analytically to within numerical quadratures. Asymptotic expressions valid for large time and/or large lateral distance from the wire are obtained both forD < \\infinandD = \\infin. A summary of numerical results is given."
"In order to select Raman laser materials for a specific purpose, it is important to know which frequency shifts and excitation power thresholds can be expected from various substances. The thresholds are strongly dependent on the peak scattering cross sections of the corresponding incoherent Raman lines, and these cross sections can vary by several orders of magnitude between Raman lines from different molecules as well as between Raman lines from a single molecule. This paper points out how the rules concerning frequencies, intensities, degrees of depolarization, and line widths, established for incoherent Raman scattering, can be used as a guide for the prediction of Raman laser performance for new materials. Subsequently, all substances and participating vibrations which have been reported to exhibit stimulated Raman scattering to date are listed and discussed."
"The decrease of internal efficiency with increasing temperature in injection lasers has been assumed in the past to be responsible for the increase in threshold and the decrease in external efficiency. This decrease in internal efficiency has been attributed to the greater hole-electron smearing, with a consequent reduction of the degree to which inverted population occurs in the region in which stimulated emission takes place. This paper shows that the increase in hole and electron smearing which occurs at elevated temperatures has a negligible influence in degenerate GaAs laser diodes in contrast to the greater optical loss arising fromp-region absorption. It is demonstrated that the increase in threshold is due to the strongerp-type absorption at 300°K. On this basis, it is also shown that the threshold current ratioJ_{th} (300\\degK)/J_{th} (77\\degK) ranges from 12 to 20.0. This range is in agreement with experimental values. In this calculation the internal quantum efficiency is assumed to remain constant in the temperature range from 77°K to 300°K. The laser line width increases from 0.75 Å at 77°K to 5 Å at 300°K. In addition, there is a corresponding increase in apparent mode spacing. These data indicate that the cavityQdecreases by approximately one order of magnitude from 77°K to 300°K. The correspondence between the cavityQand the threshold is shown. Calculated and experimental ratio values of threshold and cavityQare shown employing absorption data for GaAs in the literature. As further confirmation, curves of threshold, line width, and cavityQwith temperature are all shown to have the same shape. The data presented and the calculations made on the assumed model show that thep-type absorption loss is the dominant mechanism in increasing threshold in degenerate junctions and that hole-electron smearing is negligible."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of this periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"This paper investigates the resonant modes of Fabry-Perot interferometers with end reflectors embedded in linear, homogeneous, uniaxially anisotropic media. It is shown that for almost all practical cases the resonant modes consist of transverse electric (TE) modes and transverse magnetic (TM) modes relative to the direction of the optic axis in the medium. Two distinct integral equations are derived which together with Maxwell's equations are sufficient to perform a detailed analysis of these modes. However, since the results of the analysis of Fabry-Perot resonators in isotropic regions are available and well understood, the approach of the paper is to reduce a given \"anisotropic resonator\" to two corresponding equivalent \"isotropic resonators\": one for determining the TE modes and the other for determining the TM modes. The equivalent isotropic resonator for the TE modes has the same geometry as the actual resonator in the anisotropic medium. The geometry of the equivalent isotropic resonator for the TM modes is derivable in a very simple manner from the geometry of the actual resonator in the anisotropic medium and from the specified orientation of the direction of the optic axis in the medium. The well-known results for resonators embedded in isotropic media may henceforth be applied to determine the resonant modes of the anisotropic resonator."
"Analysis of a proposed amplifier using the electro-optic junction modulator combined with an efficient photodetector shows that gain can be expected at microwave frequencies. The power gain-band product is found to increase linearly with light source power. Calculated gain-band productsG_{p}^{1/2}f, for a light power of one watt at the modulator input, a modulator length of one cm and a width of 10 microns are: for a GaAs modulator-2.6 GHz and for a GaP modulator-710 MHz. A traveling wave design shows gain proportional to the number of segments. For the same conditions as above, and using one thousand segments each 10 microns long, calculated gain-frequency products are: GaAs-820 GHz and GaP-130 GHz. An elementary noise calculation for the traveling wave design indicates that the amplifier is potentially capable of low noise operation."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"A simple experimental technique is described for the study of the onset of oscillation in a He-Ne laser. The risetime of the 6328 Å laser oscillation is found to be of the order of 100 μs and to be a function of gain. The results are analyzed using the Lamb semiclassical theory, and a value of75 \\pm 5 \\mus is obtained for the time constant for population of the lower laser level. The significance of the results are discussed with respect to those of other workers."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of this periodical."
"The various types of electroluminescence are discussed, with particular reference to the luminescence efficiency, and the materials in which electroluminescence has been observed are listed, Semiconductor lasers operating with electroluminescent, cathodoluminescent, or photoluminescent excitation, and some of the pertinent materials and operating parameters, are reviewed. All known semiconductor lasers are listed. Such devices are useful for a variety of applications, particularly if emission in the infrared region and operation at low temperatures is feasible. On the other hand, highly efficient visible electroluminescence or coherent emission has not been observed from any semiconductor at room temperature to date."
"The problem of design of single mesh circuits for driving xenon flashlamps has been considered in detail. The normalized nonlinear differential equationI'\\pm \\alpha |I|^{1/2} + \\int\\min{0}\\max{\\tau} I d\\tilde{\\tau} = 1for this system has been solved by digital computer and the solutions are presented. Since the equation is linear in time, though nonlinear in current, it is possible to provide explicit design equations. With them, for a given lamp type, energy input, pulse duration, and pulse shape factor, the inductance, capacitance, and operating voltage are easily determined. A procedure for estimating circuit losses is also presented."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of this periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"The electrooptic effect is utilized to produce a number of types of internal laser color switches. Initial experiments have shown that the primary colored (red, green, blue) lasing lines of the Kr+laser can be switched."
"This laser bibliography compiled during the period from January through June 1966, contains 734 references which are divided into 27 categories and listed chronologically. Brief annotations are added to many references."
"The use of an off-axis resonator system to study the generation of first-Stokes radiation in benzene is considered both theoretically and experimentally. The primary advantage of the off-axis system concerns the fact that the resonator is driven by a temporal and spatial average of the exciting laser beam, thereby minimizing light trapping effects. With these trapping effects reduced in relative importance, quantitative measurements of the stimulated Raman effect in self-focusing materials are possible, and the experimental data agrees with the steady-state solution presented here to within the experimental accuracy."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of this periodical."
"The sudden perturbation method has been used to calculate the excitation cross section of some of the states of Ne II, Ar II, and Kr II by high energy electrons. In this method, the ground state of the noble gas atom, after a collision with a fast electron, is considered to lose one of its valence electrons in a time shorter than the relaxation time of the atom. The resulting configuration is then assumed to be a|(p^{5}) ^{2}P_{j}\\ranglestate withJ = 3/2or 1/2, with the remaining five valence electrons having the same radial coordinates as in the original|(p^{6})^{1}S_{0}\\ranglestate of the neutral atom. The configuration|(p^{5})^{2}P_{j}\\rangleis then expanded in terms of the ionic wave functions having the form of|(p^{4})\\bar{L}\\bar{S}, nl', LSJ\\rangle, where\\bar{L},\\bar{S}designate the total orbital angular momentum and the total spin angular momentum of the core electrons,l'is the orbital angular momentum of the excited running electron, andLSJdesignates the final orbital, spin, and total angular momenta of the atom. The coefficients of the expansion are calculated in terms of the coefficients of fractional parentage and3-jsymbols. The radial wave functions for the neutral atoms and their excited ionic states for the involved radial integrals are obtained by using a computer program giving the self-consistent Hartree-Fock wave functions in the Slater approximation. Since no experimental measurements for the excitation cross sections with fast electrons are given, the results of the calculations are indirectly compared with the available work reported on the pulsed Ar II laser. Population of various excited ionic states is calculated assuming a uniform energy distribution of electrons having 1.8 times the ionization threshold of argon, and the results are compared with experimental data reported in the literature."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"Because an active maser medium exhibits nonlinear gain saturation, the oscillating modes of an optical maser are expected to be somewhat different from those of the passive resonator. Statz and Tang [5] have obtained some numerical results for an active resonator with a pair of parallel-plane, infinite-strip mirrors. We have reformulated the problem for active resonators with circular mirrors of both parallel-plane and confocal geometries and have obtained numerical results using an iterative method of solution. We find the cardinal features of the active modes, such as mode patterns, diffraction losses, and resonant frequencies, to be essentially the same as those of the passive modes, even for unsaturated gains as high as three and a half dB per pass. The mode that predominates in an active Fabry-Perot resonator is found to be the lowest-order (TEM00) mode. However, the predominating modes in an active confocal resonator are found to depend on the Fresnel number; the larger the Fresnel number, the higher is the mode order. The study includes computations of field distributions, diffraction losses, and phase shifts of the steady-state predominating modes and of their output intensities as functions of unsaturated gain, saturation parameter, mirror transmissivity, scattering loss, and resonator geometry."
"A formalism for treating interactions between optical modes in the presence of time-varying parameters is developed. The problems of parametric oscillation, frequency conversion, and internal laser modulation are treated, as well as a new class of interactions involving parametric modulation in the presence of negative losses."
"This paper describes the theoretical and experimental investigation of a novel means of detecting microwave-frequency-modulated light signals. The system consists of an optical dispersing element followed by a photocathode and transverse-field interaction circuit. The disperser causes the light beam to swing back and forth in accordance with the instantaneous optical frequency, resulting in the generation of a transversely modulated electron beam at the photocathode, which is then detected by the circuit. Results obtained with an experimental FM phototube system confirm the analyses of the optical and electron beam mechanisms for a small modulation index. Improved versions of the FM phototube are suggested, and it is shown that the approach may represent a superior means of directly detecting optical communications or reconnaissance signals as modulation techniques improve. In particular, the FM phototube can in principle utilize high-index modulation to increase the signal-to-shot noise ratio to a value only three dB below that of an ideal heterodyne detector, while inherently discriminating against background light."
"This article reports a phenomenon allowing the phase reference beam of the \"two-beam, carrier-frequency\" holography method of Leith and Upatnieks to be used as a polarization reference as well. A technique for utilizing this for selecting and recording a particular linearly polarized component of the image carrying beam is described and applied to a unique arrangement for microholography. The waves reconstructed by the technique are described mathematically and compared to waves passed by a polarizing microscope. Experimental confirmation of these observations is presented."
"The spatially independent laser rate equation model is generalized to include multimode effects, and it is also shown that the same description of laser behavior as provided by the single-mode model results. Analytical expressions for the steady-state values of the variables in all modes are derived. It is shown that a singularity at the oscillation threshold exists in the steady-state equations which is responsible for the laser action. It is further demonstrated that the inverted population and the photon density in off-axis modes saturates above threshold, whereas the photon density in the primary mode increases linearly with pump rate above threshold. The exact time-dependent solutions are determined numerically, and it was found that the spiking separation and decay time could change by more than 50 percent of their values at the start of laser emission to the region of steady-state oscillation, even when the pump is assumed to be time independent. The linearized expressions for the spiking parameters are, therefore, inadequate-despite their frequent use-to describe phenomena appearing in the early portions of the spiking trace. A comparison with five experimental cases is also made. It was found that this model, with all modes included, provides no improvement over the single mode model, and cannot account for the irregular or undamped spiking or even the multimode oscillations observed experimentally."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of this periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"A quantum theory for noise in the steady state of the laser oscillator above threshold is presented. The concept of operator noise source is introduced. A simple laser model operating in a single mode with resonant frequency tuned to the center of the material line is considered. The resonance linewidth of the inverted material is collision-broadened, and assumed to be much broader than the cold-cavity width. We restrict ourselves to one type of collision. The quantum description of this laser model leads to nonlinear operator equations. These are linearized, but this linearization is justified only for operation \"sufficiently\" above threshold. The first- and second-order Glauber functions and the expectation value of the field commutator are derived for the field inside the laser cavity. These results are compared with the predictions of a \"semiclassical\" theory in which the classical equations contain noise sources such that properties of the field below threshold are correctly predicted. Our results differ by certain terms from the results of this semiclassical theory. These terms are too small to have been detected experimentally."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of this periodical."
"Expressions are derived for the output power of a gas laser in single-mode operation. This theory is then extended to multimode operation where the mode spacing is less than the pressure-broadened \"natural\" atomic linewidth. Using measured values for the linewidth and saturation parameters, these formulas are used to predict 6328-Å output power for a He-Ne laser as a function of laser gain, cavity loss, and output coupling. Experiments are reported which show good agreement with the theoretical predictions, and it is concluded that the theory presented here is adequate to describe the main features of the power output behavior of a 6328-Å He-Ne gas laser."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"Summary form only, as given. Two-photon absorption in solutions of organic dyes has been quantitatively measured in a wide range of wavelengths, extinction coefficients, and concentrations. The measurements are shown to be in good agreement with the simple assumption that the probability of double hits of photons on the area expected by the x-electron cloud of a molecul determines the rate of two-photon absorption."
"The purpose of this paper is to analyze other population inversion processes responsible in pure COz as well as the importance of helium in CO2-He lasers."
"Summary form only, as given. An investigation of an X-Band zero-field maser has been conducted in an effort to determine the characteristics of the device when operated as an oscillator. The results of experiments, including data on frequency stability, spectral purity, tunability, and power omtput will be presented along with a discussion of the relative merits of the solid-state maser oscillator."
"Summary form only, as given. The relationship between the intensity dependent index of refraction and the quadratic Kerr effect dominates the behavior of intense laser beams passing through fluids in which molecules have a large anisotropy of the optical polarizability. "
"Summary form only, as given. An experimental and theoretical study is reported on second-harmonic generation by focused laser beams in nonlinear crystals which are large compared to the extent of the focus. The gas laser beam is in the lowest order (Gaussian) mode and very close to index-matching conditions in the crystal. The intensity pattern of the SHG observed photographically has roughly the shape of a half moon with a very sharp edge. The distribution on the bright side of the edge has been measured using a traveling slit and photomultiplier detector. Fine structure has been observed consisting of a series of fringes extending from the edge into the bright region. The nature of the fine structure depends upon where the pattern is observed. The pattern at the surface of the crystal has fringes at the positions one would expect for diffraction of a second harmonic beam by a straight-edged screen placed at the focus. "
"Summary form only, as given. The operation and advantages of a class of lasers by cyclic excitation and relaxation of neutral atomic vapors are described. Pulsed laser action in copper vapor at 5105.5 and 5782.1 A provides experimental verification."
"Summary form only, as given. Gas-dynamic equations are studied for determination of heating, vaporization, and expansion of substance when a radiation of Q-switched laser is collimated onto a surface of solids. A possibility of existence of the self-regulating regime of vaporization and heating in one-dimensional case is proved for the case when an optical density value of the vapored gas is about unity in all the stages of this process. The values for temperature and velocity of the substance expansion are obtained. An approximate consideration of this problem is carried out when a spherical case of expansion takes place describing substance vaporization by a strong-focused radiation. The experimental investigation data of gas dynamic values are presented for the case of plume arising from collimated laser radiation interactions with the energy of several hundred MeV. Results obtained in experiments permit to calculate temperature, expansion velocity, and optical transparency of vapored substance for different stages of this process. "
"Summary form only, as given. An experimental study of stimulated Raman scattering in H2 has been conducted with the purpose of determining the lifetime of the molecular vibration. The stimulated Raman scattering of an intense laser pulse produces a substantial increase of the population of the first vibrational excited state. This population then relaxes to its thermal equilibrium value with a characteristic time determined by molecular collisions. By studying the time dependence of spontaneous anti-Stokes Raman scattering from the excited medium we have been able to observe this population decay. "
"Summary form only, as given. A powerful light pulse propagation through an optical amplifier driven at saturation was studied theoretically and experimentally. It was shown that maximum of light pulse of &-switched laser propagates through amplifying medium with velocity much higher than the light velocity without any essential decrease of pulse duration. Conditions of reducing pulse duration by nonlinear amplification were found."
"A basic mathematical model of the injection laser is employed to investigate several questions dealing with the maximum obtainable power output and factors which impose practical limitations on it. With the aid of the rate equations for electron and photon densities and a simple model of thermal resistance, it is shown that there is an optimum value of diode area WL and of the parameterS = \\alphaL/\\ln(1/R), which suggests that the CW power output can not be increased indefinitely with larger diodes. Rough numerical results are presented for CW operation at 77°K, assuming parabolic bands and band-to-band transitions without conservation of crystal momentum."
"Summary form only, as given. The well-known 3.39 um laser transition in neon terminates in the excited state 3p4, hereafter referred to as Ez, and therefore populates it at a rate P/hv where P is the 3.39 pm laser power generated and hv is the 3.39 um laser power generated and hv is the quantum of 3.39 um radiation. "
"Summary form only, as given. The electrooptic properties of a number of semiconductors were investigated. We were particularly interested in the possibility of using these materials for modulation of infrared radiation, since many of the efficient modulation materials for the shorter wavelengths, such as KTN and KDP, are opaque in this region."
"Summary form only, as given. The essence of holography lies in the fact that a real function can be used to create a complex function provided the hologram is properly illuminated. We want to go one step further and show that even a binary function is capable of creating a complex function (complex light amplitude) when illuminated by a plane wave. Such a binary hologram is desirable because it can be drawn easily on a macroscopic scale and thenc an be photographically reduced. This indirect production of a hologram is possible even if the object does not exist physically, but is known only in mathematical terms. We have developed a computer program, which with the mathematical object as input-guides a plotter drawing a binary pattern. "
"Summary form only, as given. The interaction of light with acoustic excitations and molecular orientational excitations in liquids, a generalization of electrostrictive and optical Kerr effects, can lead to self-focusing of a laser beam. This gives rise to inhomogeneity or formation of hot filaments in the beam, and consequently, to many anomalous effects in the stimulated Raman scattering. The effect can be seen indirectly by the reduction in the Raman threshold of a Ramanactive medium with the insertion of a liquid cell in front of it. Experimental results show that the self-focusing effect occurs in both Raman-active and Raman inactive media, but is much stronger in liquids with large optical Kerr constants. Turbulence in the liquid cell also helps the self-focusing effect appreciably. It is therefore believed that the self-focusing of the beam is initiated by small-scale fluctuations in the refractive index of the liquid and in the laser intensity, and perpetuated through either the electrostrictive, or the optical Kerr effect, or both. "
"Summary form only, as given. CaFzSm2+ laser action in temperature range 65 to 90 degress K is obtained with giant pulse ruby laser excitation. In addition to usual laser wavelength 0.708 pm, two other wavelengths 0.720 and 0.729 pm, known before only in luminescence, are observed for this oscillator. The oscillation duration is of 50 ns andi t coincides with thep umping light duration. The efficiency of energy transformation is equal to 20 percent."
"Summary form only, as given. When a rare earth ion is excited to a given Stark manifold, it may relax to a lower level by an ion pair or a phonon induced transition if the energy gap is propitious. Barasch and Dieke have shown that for energy gaps of less than about 1000 cm-1 phonon-induced relaxations dominate. "
"Summary form only, as given. Due to the different environments, the fluorescence line of Nd3+ in glass can be considered as the envelope of the different fluorescence lines of the ions. It is a typical example of an inhomogeneously broadened line. One can conceive that energy can be transferred between ions of different energy spectrum. Our observations seem to confirm such a cross-relaxation process. "
"Summary form only, as given. Whereas efficencies of greater than 20 percent in optical second-harmonic generation (SHG) have been reported using a Q-switched ruby laser, efficiencies many orders of magnitude smaller are observed in continuous optical (SHG) experiments. In order to achieve reasonable conversion efficiencies at the lower power levels available with continuous lasers, resonance techniques may be used. These techniques involve resonance of the fundamental, the harmonic, or both. Consideration is given to the various resonance schemes, the improvement factor achieved by each technique, and back reaction effects which occur at high conversion efficiencies. Methods of achieving simultaneous resonance of the fundamental and harmonic as well as achieving phase-matching are discussed. "
"Summary form only, as given. Semiconductor behavior in strong fields having a frequency close to the absorption band is considered. It is proved that only the slowing down and recombination times of four different relaxation times are of importance for weaker fields. In this case, equality of Fermi-level electron and hole quasi-levels to light quantum energy corresponds to a saturation condition. A semiconductor absorption coefficient regarding saturation is calculated."
"Summary form only, as given. By saturated absorption of color centers in glass, self Q-switched pulses are obtaine. One of the commonly used laser glasses contains 5 wt. percent Nd2 O3 in a glass base consisting of 72 wt. percent SiOz, 11 K20, S NaBO, 1 LizO, 5 BaO, 2 AlzO and 1 Sb203. The antimony is added for bubble removal in making the glass and to prevent solarization. If the antimony is left out, color centers are produced by ultraviolet light whose wavelength is shorter than 300 nm. Three broad absorption bands result, which are stable at room temperature. "
"Summary form only, as given. It was proposed in 1964 that the plasma produced by a large theta pinch machine, such as those developed in connection with Project Sherwood, might be a fruitful source of laser lines in the ultraviolet region of the spectrum. The possibility of dumping large amounts of power into the plasma give some hope of competing with spontaneous emission losses at thes horter wavelengths. Using the coulomb approximation of Bates and Daamgard, it can be shown that large matrix elements are obtained for transitions between states in highly ionized atoms. For this reason, the inversions required for oscillation in theta pinch plasmas should be no greater than those required for oscillation in conventional lasers, even at a temperature of one kilovolt. "
"Summary form only, as given. A giant pulse laser action with high repetition rate is obtained in CaFzDy2+ using a dc pumping xenon lamp. "
"Summary form only, as given. The sudden perturbation method II has been used to calculate the excitation cross section of some of the states of neon 11, argon 11, and krypton I1 by high-energy electrons. "
"Summary form only, as given. The destructive capabilities of pulsed lasers are already used widely in medicine and in biology, and CW lasers promise to be important in medical spectroscopy and communication."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of this periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"Summary form only, as given. A study has been made of the variation of optical maser-induced gas breakdown threshold intensity with gas pressure and maser radiation wavelength."
"Summary form only, as given. Several authors have reported noticeable frequency shifts when the direction of the C-field in an atomic beam frequency standard is reversed, but its magnitude left unchanged. This shift has been ascribed variously to a Millman effect, or to the influence of Majorana transitions in the C-region, or left unexplained. Some have attempted to correct for the shift by using the average of the frequencies for the two directions of magnetic field. The effect is probably caused in all cases by Majorana transitions occurring between the state selector magnets and the microwave cavity in the C-region. "
"Summary form only, as given. A maser operatingin a closed cycle refrigerator (CCR) at 40 degrees K has been developed. The maser head containing a silvered ruby cavity rests directly upon the cold rod of the CCR. The head is isolated from the metal waveguides by means of a vacuum gap and choke flanges. Due to this arrangement, the heat flow towards the head is low (<0.5 watts). "
"The external efficiency of the incoherent radiation in GaAs diodes is decreased typically by a factor of 10 as temperature increases in the 77°-to-300°K range. This paper shows that this decrease may be attributed to increased absorption at 300°K. The internal quantum efficiency remains constant over this temperature range."
"Approximate calculations of the maximum output power of a 6328 Å He-Ne gas laser are made for a number of laser tubes and the results compared with experimentally observed values. Good agreement is obtained. Similar calculations are then used to determine the maximum output power, optimum mirror transmission, and optimum laser geometry (length and diameter of laser tube, for a number of special cases."
"Summary form only, as given. Er2O2Ho3+ is an unusual laser material in that the host crystal itself provides the dominant pumping mechanism by means of energy transfer. The phenomenon of energy transfer between rare earth ions wherein the fluorescent intensity of one ion is enhanced by energy transfer from another ion has been investigated for the case of transfer from Er3+ to Ho3+ by Johnson et aL2s3 Erz03 is a rugged, refractory material which crystallizes with the type-C cubic rare earth sesquioxide structure. Substitution of other trivalent rare earths is easily effected without charge compensation. Erz03 is thus an ideal host for utilizing high concentrations."
"Summary form only, as given. A single transverse and longitudinal mode &-switched laser has been obtained with a ruby rod and a saturable absorber between two spherical mirrors. The saturable absorber was a solut,ion of vanadium phtalocyanine in nitrobenzene. The rod was placed at the center of a spiral flashtube, and the two spherical mirrors were placed at any position between the confocal and concentric ones. If the phtalocyanine concentration was raised up to the point at which a single laser pulse was obtained, a single transverse mode was observed in the light output. It was found however that, in order to obtain a single transverse mode, the positron of the ruby rod within the resonator was critical. "
"Summary form only, as given. Discusses krypton laser oscillation speeds."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of this periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"In an extension of the work of A. G. Fox and T. Li of Bell Telephone Laboratories, a study was made of the modes of tilted-plane mirrors having enough tilt to use the spillover radiation (at a straight edge) as output coupling. This geometry seems desirable as an oscillator to intercept a molecular beam and extract coherent power in the far infrared. Control of the tilt angle provides variableQ. Amplitude and phase of the output are smooth enough to use cylindrical optics for focusing or collimating the output. The three lowest-order two-dimensional modes were studied which, under reasonable conditions, are determined by a single parameter. It is\\beta = \\alpha(b/\\lambda)^{1/2}, where α = mirror tilt, b = mirror separation, and λ = wavelength. The lowest mode (TEM0) has loss per pass that increases almost linearly from 3 percent at\\beta = 10^{-2}to 37 percent at\\beta = 10^{-1}. The output appears to diverge from a virtual source about 3b behind the spillover edge of the shorter mirror. The virtual source of the lowest mode is displaced (0.7 to 1.1)(\\lambda b)^{1/2}inward from the spillover edge. The mathematical problem proved to be an interesting exercise in devising ways to isolate an eigenfunction of an integral operator when the eigenvalues are nearly equal."
"An argon ion laser has been used as a source of 4880Å radiation to study Brillouin scattering in liquids. Hypersonic velocities were measured in benzene, carbon disulfide, carbon tetrachloride, chloroform, methylene chloride, methylene iodide, toluene, and water at a scattering angle of 89° 45'. The width of the Brillouin line for monochromatic excitation was found to be approximately 0.007 cm-1in toluene and 0.011 cm-1in methylene chloride. However, line broadening in benzene, carbon disulfide, chloroform, and methylene chloride was found to be less than 0.002 cm-1. Depolarization factors of the Brillouin lines were measured in carbon disulfide, benzene, and toluene. The wing structure of the Rayleigh lines and depolarization of the Rayleigh wings were also measured in benzene, carbon disulfide, and toluene. Widths of the Rayleigh wings were approximately 6.8 cm-1in benzene, 6.7 cm-1in carbon disulfide, and 8.5 cm-1in toluene. From measurements of Brillouin scattering intensity, approximate values of the electrostrictive coupling constants of the other seven liquids were calculated relative to those of carbon disulfide."
"Experimental and theoretical results are described on the enhancement of optical second harmonic generation (SHG) and mixing in KDP by the use of optical resonance. Both resonance of the harmonic and of the fundamental are considered. Large enhancements are possible for resonators with low loss. Using a planoconcave harmonic resonator containing 1.23 cm of KDP, the authors achieved a loss < 4 percent per pass. This resulted in an enhancement of ∼ 500 times the harmonic power internal to the resonator and ∼ 10 times external to the resonator. When resonating, the fundamental enhancements of ∼ 5 were observed. The theory includes the effect of double refraction. This results in a coupling coefficient of the generated harmonic power to the transverse modes of the harmonic resonator. The experimental results are in substantial agreement with the theory."
"Summary form only, as given. The pulsed ring discharge previouslyd escribed was modified to maintain sufficient vapor pressure to excite the transitions listed in Table I. The modification consisted of using a floating closely fitted fused silica sleeve."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of this periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"laser bibliography, compiled during the period from July through December, 1965, contains 644 references which are divided into 25 subject categories and listed chronologically. Brief annotations are added to many references."
"The inverted susceptibility is used as a figure of merit to discuss the maser properties of Cr-TiO2atL-band frequencies. This material has the advantage of a high inversion ratio and narrow linewidth resulting in a gain per unit length 10 to 25 times larger than for ruby in the liquid helium temperature range. The optimum concentration of Cr3+is found to be around 0. 016 percent from measured data at 1.4 Gc/s. The gain calculated from the figure of merit agrees with measurements on an actual 1.4 Gc/s traveling-wave maser. The decrease in inversion ratio with increasing Cr3+concentration is an important factor which determines the behavior of the figure of merit. This variation is shown to be consistent with calculations based on a simplified spin-lattice relaxation model."
"A cylindrical acoustic wave in a laser medium will function as a time-varying, converging-diverging optical waveguide. An analytical examination of the trajectories of light rays propagating through a medium subjected to acoustic waves is presented. The use of acoustically-generated, periodic refraction index perturbations for modulating the output of a Nd3+-doped glass laser without having to insert lossy optical elements into the Fabry-Perot feedback interferometer is reported. The properties of this type of laser control are 1) increased output laser energy, 2) periodic time variation of the resonance mode structure, 3) uniform pulse heights, and 4) repetitive pulse train at a controlled frequency."
"This paper reports measurements on laser light noise and discharge current noise in a 6328 Å He-Ne laser. A cross-correlation experiment shows a strong correlation between the two noise phenomena, indicating that the laser light noise is caused by the modulation of the light beam by the discharge current noise. The discharge current noise has a spectrum with a sharp resonance at 40 kc/s that does not show up in the laser light noise. The noise is represented by an equivalent circuit. By measuring the two noise spectra and the absolute value and the phase of the cross-correlation coefficientcas functions of frequency, it is possible to evaluate some of the components of the equivalent circuit. The values thus obtained turn out to be quite reasonable, which supports the assumptions on which the equivalent circuit is based."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of this periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"In liquids with optically anisotropic molecules the largest nonlinear polarization, cubic in the field amplitudes, corresponds to the intensity dependent index of refraction. The resulting self-focusing of the laser beam is in turn responsible for the anomalous gain of the stimulated Raman emission. The stimulated Brillouin effect in these self-focusing fluids has the same threshold condition as the stimulated Raman effect. In both cases the condition is that self-focusing occurs within the cell length. The anomalous frequency broadening in these same liquids depends on the parameter(\\omega_{L} - \\omega'_{L})\\tau_{c}, where ωLand\\omega'_{L}are two frequencies occurring in the laser beam and τcis a correlation time for molecular reorientation. In agreement with this theory, more broadening was observed at higher temperatures, although the Raman gain has the opposite trend."
"The limited coherence of most pulsed lasers is the principle difficulty in making pulsed holograms. This paper describes techniques used for the production of quality holograms of back lighted subjects, using ordinary pulsed lasers. The arrangements used achieve a temporal and spatial matching of the scene and reference beams to the degree required by the laser coherence cell. Techniques are described which prevent the destruction of the spatial match when using a diffusing screen. The use of lenses to permit the recording of large subjects on small holograms with limited pulsed energy is described. The limitations on subject motion are described. Experimental examples of the techniques are illustrated by holographic recordings of bullets in flight. The technique of double exposure holographic interferometry is also illustrated."
"The quantum effects in the degenerate valence bands of germanium have been observed as multiple cyclotron resonance absorption lines at a temperature of 165°K. Additional lines were resolved at 40°K. The combination of high intensity magnetic fields up to 180 000 gauss and the output power of a cyanide submillimeter laser (0.337 millimeters) was used. The construction and operation of a simple resonance spectrometer is described. Cryogenic techniques and the choice of detectors are discussed. The possible use of molecular gas laser spectrometers for EPR, ferrimagnetic resonance, and antiferromagnetic resonance at submillimeter wavelengths is considered."
"A simple semiclassical derivation is given of the statistics of the photoelectrons emitted from a photosurface illuminated by light with statistically time dependent intensity. Comparison is made with the quantum mechanical expressions. Experiments are described that yield the probability of emission ofnphotoelectrons within a fixed time interval from a photocathode illuminated by a laser below and above threshold. The experimental results are compared with the theory developed in this paper and expressions derived by Glauber."
"The results from a series of experiments at the Smithsonian Astrophysical Observing Station, Organ Pass, N. Mex., indicate how lasers may be used to supplement the worldwide network of Baker-Nunn cameras in obtaining precise satellite orbits for geodesy and other purposes. A pulsed ruby laser and photoelectric receiver were located at the observing station. Laser returns were obtained from the three satellites equipped with retroreflectors. The problem of aiming the laser so that its narrow beam reaches the satellite is discussed for the cases of the satellite in sunlight and in shadow. The value of the limiting range obtained experimentally is compared with that calculated from the range equation and from measurements and estimates of the background noise. Range measurements made with the laser system are compared with values determined from the orbit computations based on observations from the Baker-Nunn network. The effects of the earth's atmosphere are discussed."
"Observations have been made on the forward scattering of aQ-spoiled ruby laser beam from a hydrogen plasma which show clearly both the central ion peak and the satellites due to cooperative interaction between the ions and electrons. In a separate experiment on a large θ-pinch producing a high temperature deuterium plasma, the ion peak has been resolved and values obtained for both the electron and ion temperatures in the plasma. Preliminary values of the ion temperature are consistent with a thermonuclear origin for the neutron emission observed."
"The basic principles of the laser Doppler velocimeter, a new instrument for measurement of localized flow velocities in gases and liquids, are discussed in detail. Velocity measurements are made by detecting the Doppler shift in monochromatic laser light which is scattered from small contaminant particles in the fluid. ACWgas laser serves as the light source, and the Doppler shift is detected by optical heterodyne techniques. The latest fluid flow measurements obtained with the laser Doppler velocimeter are presented."
"A current measuring device applicable to an extra-high voltage power transmission line higher than 500 kV is proposed with preliminary experimental results. It obtains the instantaneous magnetic field ajacent to a transmission wire by measuring the angle of Faraday rotation of a laser beam in a flint glass rod. The laser beam is transmitted and analyzed at a ground potential site, and in the energized part this device has neither insulated conductors nor active elements. An experimental laser current transformer yielded a sensitivity of 66 mV per 100 A and good linearity. Various sources of error and modifications are discussed."
"Er2O3: Ho3+is an unusual laser material in that the host crystal itself provides the dominant pumping mechanism by means of energy transfer. The additional pumping bands due to Er3+and the consequent efficient transfer of energy to the Ho3+laser ion lead to relatively low threshold laser operation: 5 joules pulsed and 200W CW for a 12mm long crystal at 77°K. The emission waveleng this 2.121μ, a region of good atmospheric transmission. Additional laser experiments were carried out at 145°K. Excitation and fluorescence spectra are discussed."
"This paper reviews the results of a program of experimental work on infrared quantum counter action in trivalent rare earth doped CaF2, SrF2, BaF2, and LaF3lattices. The action has been found in eight of the nine possible ions that could give an output in the visible region. While the strengths of the various schemes at a 1 percent doping level are consistant with a low concentration theory, the strengths of the schemes at a 10 percent doping level indicate that there are ion-ion interactions influencing the systems. These ion-ion couplings are so effective that three photon addition schemes have been identified."
"When a sufficiently intense light beam propagates in an isotropic medium, the latter becomes birefringent with refractive index dependent on the even powers of the electric field strength. The permittivity also increases with the refractive index. Under such conditions, at very high intensities, a new effect arises: the light beam produces a kind of dielectric waveguide embracing that part of the medium where the dielectric permittivity has undergone an increase. At sufficient power of the beam the diffracted light is totally reflected on the walls of this waveguide, and is unable to escape outwards; thus there arises a self-trapping \"channel.\" By means of an electronic computer, data for calculating the functionD = f(P)are obtained,Dbeing the diameter of the self-trapping channel, andPthe power of the light beam entering the medium. The shape ofD = f(P)as computed numerically reveals a number of interesting features which are discussed and analyzed in detail."
"Stimulated emission and laser oscillation resulting from transient population inversions on a number of electronic transitions of molecular nitrogen have made it possible to more accurately specify energy differences between several excited singlet states of the molecule and in one case, that of thew ^{1}\\Delta_{u}state, to more directly determine its absolute position with respect to the electronic ground state. Measurement accuracy has been improved on a system which we previously reported. A new emission system has been identified as resulting from transitions between thew ^{1}\\Delta_{u}state and thea^{1}\\Pi_{g}state. We have observed for the first time in the unperturbed region at lowJvalues Λ doubling in\\upsilon = 0ofa^{1}\\Pi_{g}. Very complex emission systems of more than eighty lines falling into four groups between 5.35 μm and 8.06 μm have been observed. No identification has yet been made."
"The electrooptic properties of a number of semiconductors were investigated. Of particular interest was the possibility of using these materials for modulation of infrared radiation, since many of the efficient modulation materials for the shorter wavelengths, such as KTN and KDP, are opaque in this region. We have investigated experimentally the modulation potential of a number of semiconducting materials. These include ZnS and GaAs of the noncentrosymmetric 43m class. The electrooptic coefficients were determined by using a Co2, 10.6μ and a He-Ne 3.39 μ laser as the radiation source. Based on our experiments, GaAs appears as a suitable material for infrared modulation at\\lambda > 10\\mu."
"This paper presents a novel problem in laser dynamics, where two lasers using different active material with different frequency produce radiation interaction. In the first experiment, we performed a study on the effect of radiation coupling of the giant pulse ruby laser on the Nd3+-glass laser under normal oscillation. It was found that the sudden enchancement followed by the quenching of oscillation in the Nd3+-glass makes a short, intense pulse, which was one order of magnitude or more larger than usual oscillating spikes, after the excitation by theQ-switched ruby laser light. In order to explain this result, the fluorescence study of the Nd3+-glass in the range of the visible and near infrared spectrum was arranged by employing the giant pulse ruby laser as an exciting source. This measurement has led to valuable information on the energy levels of the Nd3+-ion in the glass host through the new observation of fluorescence lines in the visible spectral region. Hence it was found that the ruby laser radiation is properly responsible for two upward transitions from the ground state in the Nd3+-glass, and thereby such radiation coupling yields the sudden enhanced emission in the laser output."
"A solid-state zero-field maser oscillator has been experimentally investigated to determine the power, stability, and spectral purity which may be expected in this type of device. The maser operates in a zero-field configuration and uses the ferric ion substituted as an impurity in an aluminum nitrate host crystal. Single-crystal and powder samples were used in the experiments, and a comparison between the sample configuration is given."
"Using population rate equations, we have calculated the intrinsic intensity fluctuations expected in the output of 3-level and 4-level CW laser oscillators. Such fluctuations stem from the quantum shot noise implicit in a restriction of the atomic and photon population-operator eigenvalues to discrete integral values (in the manner of Shimoda, Takahasi, and Townes). The intrinsic fluctuations below threshold are typical of a Gaussian distribution ofe-mfield amplitudes (Bose-Einstein distribution of photons) and above threshold of an amplitude-stabilizede-mfield (Poisson distribution of photons). The noise properties of 3-level and 4-level lasers are qualitatively similar, although for a given output power the intensity fluctuations of 3-level oscillators are greater than (or equal to) those in 4-level oscillators, principally as a consequence of the increased spontaneous emission associated with the larger upper-state occupation necessary to achieve a net gain in 3-level systems."
"Ruby lasers of between 10 mm and 75 mm length were operated continuously at room temperature in ellipsoidal pumping systems. Mode selection, relaxation oscillations, mode interaction, and thermal effects are described. CW operation was also studied with external mirrors, in 100 c/s giant pulse emission, and in single-mode emission. A ruby Pulslaser is described, that can be operated in 1 ms pulses at 50 to 120 c/s."
"Several molecular vibrational frequencies have been generated by beating together a laser and laser-stimulated Raman emission. A Nd3+/glass laser was used to excite Raman emission from C6H6, C6D6, and CH3. NO2. The difference frequencies were generated in a single crystal of CdS and appeared at 992, 944, and 927 cm-1, respectively. A difference frequency has also been detected at 944 cm-1following mixing in CdSe. The data presented for HgS indicates that phase-matched outputs can be generated over a limited range of frequencies, provided that the Raman emission is excited with a Nd3+/glass laser. Experimental details are given and the results are discussed."
"A new mode suppression configuration is described for producing a single-frequency output from gaseous lasers. This configuration has the form of a modified Michelson interferometer where the basic modification is in the introduction of a third feedback mirror for coupling the two branches of the Michelson. Small path length differences between the two branches of the Michelson are responsible for the mode suppression properties of the device which come about through interference phenomena at the beam splitter. This results in a frequency-dependent power loss out of the beam splitter which can provide for large amounts of mode discrimination. The device is made into an oscillator by introducing gain into each of the two branches of the Michelson. A detailed analysis of the device is given based on the scattering matrix formalism. The results of the analysis give the oscillation frequencies, the degree of mode discrimination, the internal laser radiation intensity, and equations for the output power. Experimentally, a 10 mW single-mode 6328 Å He-Ne Michelson-type gas laser is described. Data on the frequency spectrum, output power, and amplitude stability of a free running laser are given and correlated with theory. While it is shown that single-frequency operation is easily obtained, the device in its present form does not include a means for stabilizing the frequency."
"This paper deals with the laser rotation rate sensor, sometimes also referred to as laser gyroscope, which was most extensively investigated by Macek and co-workers at Sperry Gyroscope. The function of rotation sensing is first discussed for a ring resonator of circular shape. It is seen that in that case the standing wave electromagnetic energy distribution remains stationary while the cavity structure with an attached detector is rotated so that the detector samples standing waves. Thus, rotation sensing is linked with the fact that Maxwell's equations are valid for inertial reference frames or equivalently, with the inertial nature of electromagnetic radiation. The concept of inertia is then used to derive the ring laser equation for arbitrary ring shape. It is hoped that these viewpoints offer a more elementary understanding of rotation sensing through ring lasers than other available derivations."
"In this paper we report the results of some experiments in active imaging-image processing in which the pictorial information is placed within the laser cavity. By the use of an active medium which provides high gain over a wide aperture, in conjunction with a highly degenerate conjugate resonator, we have been able to obtain diffraction limited resolution with an information content orders of magnitude greater than previously reported. The resonator used is the Flat-Field Conjugate Resonator (FFCR), which can support as many as 107modes of nearly equalQwhen properly designed lenses are used. As active medium we used the pulsed hollow cathode Hg+laser. In the present FFCR, two plane mirrors are imaged one upon the other by means of two achromatic doublets (focal lengths about 200 mm) located between the ends of the discharge tube and the mirrors. Active imaging is accomplished by masking one of the mirrors and observing the pattern resulting on the other mirror. Masks used include pinholes, wire meshes, and photographic transparencies as well as patterns etched in thin metallic films that were used directly as mirrors. With the doublets working nearf/10, the resolution over a 15mm diameter field was greater than 100 lines/mm, which corresponds quite well to the observed resolution of the passive system. The resonator was thus capable of actively imaging photographic transparencies having more than 106bits. One characteristic of active imaging in this type of resonator is that all the modes have a large common active volume, and the suppression of some of the modes enhances the intensity of the others. Furthermore, the nonlinear behavior of a laser as an oscillator allows sharp discrimination between differing loss levels in the cavity. These effects have been observed, and their possible application to contrast enhancement and image dissection is discussed."
"Single transverse and longitudinal modes have been observed in the output of a passiveQ-switched ruby laser when two spherical mirrors are used for the resonator. This result has been consistently obtained with several rods, with two sets of mirrors of different radius of curvature, and with a few values of reflectivity of the mirrors which proves that it is typical of a spherical resonator. The saturable absorber is a solution of vanadium phtalocyanine in nitrobenzene. To have a single transverse mode, the mirror alignment and the position of the rod within the cavity is critical. When the laser oscillates in a single mode, the output pulse is very reproducible and the fluctuations of peak amplitude and width of the pulse are less than ∼3 percent. Furthermore, as expected, the output beam has a very good spatial coherence and its divergence approaches the limits set by diffraction. As far as peak output power and width of the pulse, the best results have been obtained with one concave and one convex mirror of ∼ 5-m radius of curvature, one mirror being 99 percent and the other 50 percent reflecting. A pulse of 1 MW peak power and 30 ns half-width has been obtained."
"Gain measurements are reported for radiation of wavelength 8466Å propagating in a direction perpendicular to the junction of a GaAs injection laser operated at 80°K. These results, used in conjunction with measurements of spontaneous emission, show that a gain of 2.3 percent is achieved at 7000 A/cm2. In thermal equilibrium, neglecting free carrier absorption, 0.78 percent of the transmitted radiation is absorbed in traversing the active region, 135 A/cm2being required to offset this loss. Allowance for free carrier absorption changes the above figures somewhat. The separation of the quasi-Fermi levels is also deduced from this data."
"The infrared GaAs injection amplifiers described have gains as high as 2000 and give output powers of 150 milliwatts when operating at 77°K and driven by a single mode. Output efficiencies of 68 percent differentiial and 50 percent overall can be obtained if the amplifier is driven by light of spectral width equal to the band-pass of the amplifier (30 Å). Regenerative effects are minimized by coating the diodes with three-fourth wavelength coatings of SiO. Thresholds at liquid nitrogen temperature were raised by a factor of ten on some diodes after the coatings were applied. Experimental data obtained on gain, efficiency, spectra, beamwidth, and noise power of several amplifiers are summarized and presented."
"When a gas laser plasma is illuminated by unequally intense laser beams traveling in opposing directions, its index of refraction becomes significantly nonreciprocal. We have studied this effect by measuring the beat frequency between the counter-rotating beams in a 6328Å He-Ne ring laser under controlled conditions. Frequency locking was effectively eliminated by using a Faraday effect beat frequency bias element. The measured beat frequency became a strong function of two independent parameters: the ring resonator tuning and the beam intensity difference. A second Faraday effect element was introduced to control non-reciprocal losses within the ring resonator. Servo loops controlling both the total laser intensity and the intensity ratio between the counterrotating beams permitted direct measurement of the non-reciprocal gain caused by saturation, or hole burning. The effects observed are contained in Aronowitz' theoretical description of ring lasers."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of this periodical."
"A new high-frequency photomultiplier has been developed for use at microwave modulation rates. This device consists basically of a circularly symmetric form of the crossed-field secondary electron multiplier together with a helical output circuit, so that the frequency response is of a band-pass form centered at approximately 2 GHz. The four-stage electron multiplier, which has a coaxial geometry, has a transit time-dispersion of the order of 10-11seconds when operated in a solenoidal magnetic field of 900 gauss with an anode voltage of 4000 volts. The traveling-wave photomultiplier has been successfully operated in a modulation-demodulation experiment in the frequency range of 1 GHz to 3 GHz with typical values ofM^{2}R_{eq}of the order of 109. The high-impedance helical output coupler makes a very sensitive tube possible with only a limited number of multiplication stages so that internal sources of noise, such as field emission and dark current, are not serious problems. When compared with the nonmultiplying version of the traveling-wave phototube, this new photomultiplier provides a direct increase in signal level of 40 dB for the same optical input signal. Minimum detectable optical signals are of the order of 0.5 microwatts when the modulation index is only 10 percent. The dynamic range is quite large, both because of the relatively rugged dynode structure and because of the limited number of multiplication stages which are necessary to reach a given detected signal level. Traveling-wave gain has not yet been achieved in the helix region because the beam shape is not optimum due to various focusing problems, but improvements in this area should result in amplification in the helix region as well as current multiplication in the multiplier region in the case of strong input signals. It should be possible to extend the frequency range of devices of this type up at least 8 GHz by suitable helix design."
"An analysis is performed for a pulsed ruby laser with a modulator internal to the interferometer resonator. The problem is a transient one, since steady state is not reached during the period of oscillation of the pulsed laser. The solution obtained is not a steady-state solution, but is applicable to the time interval of interest for the ruby laser. It is found that the electric field envelope is composed of frequency components which are multiples of both the modulation frequency and the free-running beat frequency. A comparison is made between the theory and experimental data obtained from loss modulation of a ruby laser."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"The plasma \"blow-off vapor,\" produced when a high power laser beam strikes a solid surface, has been studied experimentally and theoretically. Electron densities and plasma optical thicknesses have been measured both in time and position resolved manners for plasmas produced from carbon. The ruby laser system consisted of a \"Q-switched\" oscillator and one amplifier, both 7 inches long and 0.6 inch in diameter. The system energy output was between 8 and 13 joules in a 0.055 μ-second pulse width at half height. The electron density was measured using a gas laser as a probe light source and a Mach-Zender interferometer to measure the phase shifts due to plasma refractivity. The experiments were performed with incident laser energies of 10 to 1000 joules/cm2(by focusing). Electron densities as high as 1019cm-3were observed, with correspondingly high plasma optical thicknesses. There were strong indications of heating by the incident laser beam of the front edge of the plasma, which was not expected on the basis of plasma heating by free-free and bound-free absorption due to the low electron density existing there. In general, a theoretical treatment of plasma heating by the bound-free and free-free absorption agreed well with experiments."
"We have first studied the spatial distribution of electrons and ions emitted from a solid target when hit by a focused,Q-switched laser beam. The particle emission is highly anisotropic. In a second experiment we have analyzed the ion energy for various targets such as beryllium, carbon, and molybdenum. For each target element, evidence for multicharged ions has been shown as a function of laser intensity. With a laser flux at the target surface of6 \\times 10^{10}W/cm2, the maximum ion energy obtained is about 2 keV. Finally, we have shown that particle emission is accompanied by X-ray emission."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of this periodical."
"Two-photon absorption in solutions of organic dyes has been quantitatively measured in a wide range of wavelengths, extinction coefficients, and concentrations. The measurements are shown to be in good agreement with the simple assumption that the probability of double hits of photons on the area extended by the π-electron cloud of a molecule determines the rate of two-photon absorption."
"Laser emission at 1.015 μm occurs in glass singly doped and when sensitized with Nd3+. For double doping in a Li Mg Al Si glass, emission at 1.015 μm from Yb3+and 1.06 μm from Nd3+was reported. By monitoring the 1.35 μm fluorescent line of Nd3+, it can be shown that both Nd3+and Yb3+lase at 1.06 μm at room temperature in a silicate glass with 5 weight percent Nd2O3and 5 weight percent Yb2O3. Energy transfer from Nd3+to Yb3+is a linear function of the Yb3+concentration. The transfer increases with Nd3+concentration by about a factor of three in going from 1 weight percent Nd2O3to 6 weight percent Nd2O3and thereafter remains approximately constant. This indicates that the transfer from Nd3+to Yb3+is assisted by intermediate transfer steps between Nd3+ions. Additional transfer above 6 weight percent Nd2O3is prevented by concentration quenching."
"Measurements have been made on the linewidths of several continuously excited gallium arsenide lasers operating at 77°K by using an optical system similar to that of a Michelson Intefferometer with a leg unbalance of 3000 feet. For CW GaAs lasers operating in a single mode, homodyne detection was used to determine the linewidth to within the system's resolution of 150 kc/s. For various CW GaAs laser current levels and mode configurations, the system allowed a means of determining the bandwidth of the intensity noise by autocorrelation."
"An oscillation at the wavelength 4946 A in cadmium sulfide crystal is produced by two-photon excitation by ruby laser radiation. A two-photon absorption coefficient is measured at the wavelength 6943 A. The two-photon absorption coefficient is proportional to the light beam intensity and is equal to 1.0 cm-1at 50 W/cm2. The excitation lifetime in excited state is 10-9to 10-11seconds. It is proved that the oscillation in cadmium sulfide is due to the coupled excitations."
"Characteristics of argon discharge which are relevant to the operation of Ar+lasers are investigated. These include ion and electron densities and ion temperatures as a function of current density."
"A theory of relaxation by the random excitation of transitions in the levelF = 1of the ground state of hydrogen is described. The theory is applied to the case of the hydrogen maser. It is found that this type of relaxation, when introduced in the maser in a controlled manner, makes possible the measurement of parameters fundamental to the design of the maser. Experiments are described in which a magnetic gradient producing transitions between theF = 1states is created by a current passing through a straight conductor in the storage bulb. Experimental results for various modes of operation of the maser are given."
"We have studied multiple-photon transition in a low-field nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) experiment. It is well known that a saturation of the NMR occurs when using a sufficiently high alternating magnetic field which induces multiple-photons transitions. We show theoretically that these multiphoton transitions are accompanied by an harmonic generation. For an-photon transition, this generation occurs mostly on thenth and (n \\pm 1)th harmonic. For an irradiating field2H_{1} \\cos \\omegat of pulsation ω such thatn\\omega= \\gamma H_{0}=\\omega_{0}where H0is the steady field and θ is the angle between H0and H1the amplitudesS\\min{n}\\max{n}andS\\min{n}\\max{n+1}of these components are given byS\\min{n}\\max{n} = f_{n}(\\theta) (H_{1})^{n},S\\min{n}\\max{n+1} = \\cos \\theta f_{n}(\\theta) (H_{1})^{n+1}. We have verified these equations in a low-field NMR experiment (H_{0} = 0.7Gs/s), polarizing first a flowing liquid in a high magnetic field. The liquid then flows in a modified Bloch spectrometer. The receiving coil is still perpendicular to the steady field but it is possible to adjust the angle θ between the axis of the emission coils (H1field) and the steady-field H0. Using a synchronous detection at the output of the receiving coil on the pulsation(n - 1) \\omega, n\\omega, or(n + 1) \\omega, we have directly detected multiphoton transistions. The above equations have been verified forn = 2ton = 5. There are slight discrepancies at high excitation which may be explained taking into account a large saturation."
"We have designed a Zeeman-tuned laser oscillating at nearly all laser transitions between 3 and 9 μm, and we have studied absorption bands between 1250 and 1450 cm-1where many xenon and neon laser lines have sufficient gain to allow displacements of 0.1 cm-1The apparatus is an internal-mirror discharge, dc excited, on a granite bench well isolated from mechanical vibrations. The Fabry-Perot cavity is 1.66 meter. Applied axial magnetic fields vary from 0 to 1800 Gs. The circular polarizations are converted to linear perpendicular polarizations by a quarter-wave plate consisting of a Fresnel prism. The laser beam, after passage through the absorption cell, is detected by a Ge-Au cell behind a monochromator. The detected signal and the magnetic field are simultaneously recorded by anXYrecorder."
"Transient and steady-state infrared emission at 2.5 to 15 μ from low-lying vibrational-rotational levels of CO2has been studied using a dc discharge. The time-dependent behaviors of several levels important for laser excitation and relaxation were examined following a pulsed discharge. The decays were, in general, different and were not simple exponentials. Relaxation of vibrational energy of CO2appears to occur by collisions involving vibration-vibration exchange between different vibrational modes and vibration-translation relaxation of the bending mode. The rate of transfer of vibrational excitation from N2to various vibrational modes of CO2was investigated as a function of CO2pressure. The addition of He reduced the emission from the lower laser levels with respect to that from the upper laser level and increased the nonradiative decay rate of the lower vibrational levels by CO2-He collisions. Under pulsed excitation, in addition to CO2laser action nearly coincident with the pulse, a weaker, delayed output was observed."
"Lamb's self-consistent theory and rate equation approximation are used to determine the polarization of a monomode gas laser subjected to a magnetic field. The excited vapor is represented by a four level system; its motion is described in a Bloch analog form, using Fano formalism. In the stimulated emission (absorption) process, atoms and light are shown to exchange energy and angular momentum. This optically induced angular state of the vapor can be destroyed by the applied magnetic field, lowering the optical saturation. When the Zeeman sublevels no longer overlap, the laser tends to oscillate with a transverse polarization of minimized saturation. Experimental evidence of these changes of polarization is given with an internal plane mirror laser on the 1.52 μm (J= 1 \\rightarrow J= 0) line of Ne20. The observed data are pressure sensitive and give some information on the lifetime and disorienting cross section of the2s_{2}level of Ne."
"The relaxation times T1for the grouud state levels in ruby were measured in the temperature range 4.2 to 1.6°K for the various concentrations of theCr^{3+}ionsffrom 0.05 to 0.7 percent. The dependenceT_{1}(f)of the formT_{1}^{-1}(f) = T_{1}^{-1}(0) + T_{1}^{-1}(I)f ^{n}withn \\simeq 2has been obtained for the different transitions. The measurements of relaxation times for\\pm \\frac{1}{2} \\leftrightarrow \\pm \\frac{3}{2}transition at zero magnetic field were especially aimed at establishing a form of dependenceT_{1}(f)because of the absence of the cross relaxation effects in this case. The normal temperature dependenceT_{1} \\propto T_{1}^{-1}has been obtained at all concentrations in comparison with anomalous dependences observed at high concentrations by some researchers."
"Several experiments on optically excited ruby are described. First, absorption transitions initiated from the metastable states,t\\min{2}\\max{3}2Eandt\\min{2}\\max{3}2T1, are investigated in the photon energy range from 5500 to 45 000 cm-1. The absorption spectrum of these excited states is determined in both\\pi-and σ-polarizations and assignments for the observed absorption bands are achieved. Obtained results are compared with other experiments reported in the literature. Next, emission properties of pink ruby are studied in the region near theRlines. The emission spectrum is determined point by point by means of intense flash excitation. The observed weak bands are ascribed to theR'and phonon assistedRtransitions. Laser actions in these bands are discussed and experimental results on phonon terminated laser amplification are presented. An experiment using a giant pulse as an excitation source reveals that the transition time fromt\\min{2}\\max{3}2Etot\\min{2}\\max{3}2T1is shorter than a fraction of 1μs at room temperature."
"In an effort to verify the hypothesis that molecular reorientation (ac Kerr effect) is responsible for the self-focusing of light beams in certain liquids, we have measured and compared the thresholds and other characteristics of self-focusing for circularly and linearly polarized beams incident on these liquids. We show that for plane waves propagating in a homogeneous, isotropic, ensemble of molecules having anisotropic polarizability tensors, the nonlinear index should be four times as great for linearly as for circularly polarized waves. The hope that this difference in indexes would be reflected in a four-fold increase in the threshold power for self-trapping when circularly instead of linearly polarized light is incident was not realized. In practice, the increase was always found to be much less. However, in every case studied, the trapped light from a beam, circularly polarized to better than 1 part in 200, was markedly, if not completely, depolarized as soon as self-trapping could be detected. We show qualitatively that this polarization instability should exist for all but linearly polarized light and for a variety of nonlinear mechanisms. However, in the absence of even an approximate quantitative theory of the self-trapping of light that is not linearly polarized, the comparative measurements of thresholds cannot be said either to verify or disprove the hypothesis of molecular reorientation."
"Small energy gap semiconductors such as InAs, InSb, and Hg1-xCdxTe (where0.15 \\leq x \\leq 0.40) allow one to build infrared coherent emitters and fast detectors in a wide wavelength range where practical applications are anticipated (3 to 15 microns, approximately). Some recent achievements of these devices are presented. Previously described indium arsenide junction lasers have been improved. Continuous emission is obtained at 27°K, at a level of 20 mW. Relaxation oscillations of the emitted coherent radiation have been observed at a frequency of 20 Mc/s. Sub-laser emission has been observed at 3 microns on HgTe-CdTe alloyp-njunction. Coherent emission can be predicted on the basis of the band structure. The intrinsic detectors are faster and can work at higher temperatures than impurity photoconductors. Besides photovoltaic InAs and InSb detectors, we have developed three types of Hg1-xCdxTe detectors for the 3 to 12 microns wavelength range: photovoltaic, photoconductive cells, and graded band-gap structures. Theoretical possibilities of this type are discussed and preliminary experimental results for all three are given. For a photoconductive cell whose response peaks at 10 microns a time constant of 70 ns has been measured using an InAs laser as a source."
"Experimental results are presented showing the effect of tube diameter on the output power and efficiency of CO2lasers. It is shown that both output power and efficiency are almost independent of diameter over the range 11mm to 44mm. The measured values of the output power and efficiency are 75 watts per meter and 10 percent. Higher efficiencies are obtained at lower power outputs. Mirror damage is discussed and two experiments involving the irradiation of CO2and ammonia with a high power laser beam are mentioned. An explanation is given for the strong interaction between the laser beam and the discharge tube current. Finally, the flow calorimeter used to measure high power laser beams is described."
"Semiclassical equations are used to determine the output power of steady-state optical maser as a function of various parameters (pumping level, crystal losses, cavity length, and mirror transparancy). The results obtained are compared with those given by the rate equations theory (as applied to a ruby crystal). It is shown that the difference between these two methods from the technical point of view is insignificant and did not appear in ordinary experiments."
"This paper will review briefly a recent experiment which measured the photodetachment probability for I-ions due to simultaneous absorption of two ruby quanta. We have calculated the two-quantum photoionization rate for atomic cesium as a function of wavelength. The \"transition\" from the initial state to the bound intermediate state is expressed in terms of oscillator strengths. The second \"transition,\" from these excited valence states into the coulomb continuum is expressed as a cross section. We have observed what appear to be genuine two-photon ionization signals in three cases: 1) near resonance in the10P_{3/2}state using the second-harmonic ofQ-switched ruby, 2) away from resonances, using the 5300 Å second-harmonic ofQ-switched neodymium laser, and 3) away from resonances using the first anti-Stokes line at 5750 Å from ruby-pumped D2gas. Present experiments aim at scanning the interesting range near resonance, e.g., by thermally tuning the ruby."
"Many authors have analyzed the fluctuations of the laser oscillator, considering it as a regenerative classical oscillator. According to this model, the spectral line broadening can be calculated as due to the amplitude and to the phase fluctuations of the laser oscillation. There is as yet no good method available for the measurement of the phase or frequency fluctuations and the resultant spectral broadening. The method we propose allows the measurement of the cross-correlation function of the phase or frequency fluctuations of the optical field at two points of a laser beam. The optical signal from a single laser at two points P1and P2is mixed separately with two other independent lasers in two photo-devices. After detection of the beats, the two signals are passed each through a limiter and a frequency discriminator tuned to the center frequency of the beats. The output signals are then proportional to the fluctuating instantaneous frequency differences between the incoming beam and each of the local oscillator lasers. These two signals are then correlated with an electronic correlator. The details of the calculations are presented. It is shown that the signal-to-noise ratio attainable in such a measurement can be quite satisfactory."
"The statistical properties of a radiation field (either Gaussian or laser) have been investigated by photon counting distributions. Two methods (nonlinear and linear) are here introduced and compared from the viewpoint of the accuracy of the measurement and of the associated information capacity. Finally, the method of the \"joint photocount distributions\" is here introduced as a new tool for the investigation of the time evolution of a random field."
"A theory is developed for the excess photon noise in the detected photocurrent of the multimode laser. Two simple cases are treated: in one, the modes are uncoupled and in the other, they are phase locked. Both cases can be realized when a gas laser is operated under saturation conditions well above threshold, where complicated mode interactions make a detailed analysis difficult. As predicted, the excess photon noise is zero dB, within experimental error, for the phase-locked case; and it is approximately 20 ± 3dB for a stable vibration isolated laser operating in a multimode, nonlocked condition. Precautions have been taken to eliminate extraneous noise due to power supply ripple and the like, and the highly nonideal contribution of the photomultiplier has been subtracted out."
"Mobile electrons in semiconductors, when subjected to a magnetic field, Raman scatter at a frequency which is shifted from that of the incident light by twice the electron cyclotron frequency. This process may provide the mechanism for a tunable Raman laser. A formula is derived for the threshold pump power required to stimulate such Raman emission.N-type InSb pumped by a 10.6-μ CO2laser appears to be a good combination for achieving laser action. Pump powers of 1 to 10 MW/cm2are required for operation in the wavelength range of 12 to 25 μ. Such power densities have been achieved with pulsed CO2lasers. Stimulated Raman emission at wavelengths beyond 60 μ is also a possibility. The threshold pump power in the range is comparable to that in the near infrared. However, magnetic fields greater than 100 kGs are required to shift the Raman frequency into the far infrared."
"A formalism for describing optical parametric oscillation is developed. The theory is applied to the derivation of the oscillation threshold condition, power output, the Manley-Rowe conditions, index matching, and frequency tuning."
"A new technique for producing a controlled excited state population for purposes of radio frequency excited state spectroscopy is illustrated in the experiment reported here. This consists of using the coherent optical field of a gas laser as a pump for a microwave transition between excited states internal to the laser system. From the peak transition frequency observed, we obtain a value, more accurate than previously known, for the energy separation of the3p_{2}and3p_{4}fine structure levels of neon of 26, 359 ± 1 MHz. Since observations are made at microwave frequencies, narrow resonances are directly observed whose widths are determined primarily by collision broadening or natural decay to lower lying levels. Hence, by means of this technique, it is possible to study the dependence of these broadening mechanisms on a variety of experimental conditions."
"In order to obtain a large nonlinear optical interaction of three light beams, it is often advantageous to make all three beams collinear in a uniaxial crystal whose optical axis is perpendicular to the light beams. Under these conditions, phasematching can be obtained only for a resticted set of frequency combinations. In order to obtain the desired large nonlinear optical interaction for frequency combinations outside the restricted set, the birefringence of the crystal must be altered. In this work we have altered the birefringence of KDP by use of the electrooptic effect, which is very large near the Curie temperature. The electric field required to produce a given alteration of phasematching was found to vary directly as the temperature difference above the Curie temperature. A field of 6.5 volts/cm per °C above the Curie temperature changed the phasematching by an amount corresponding to one wavenumber of second harmonic frequency. By using argon laser frequencies for inputs, we were able to observe several phasematched processes. The total observed change in phase-matching induced by electric fields corresponded to the generation of second harmonics over a 3.9 percent frequency range (about 38 860 wavenumbers to about 40 387 wavenumbers). This may be compared with the 4.8 percent second harmonic frequency range (about 37 700 wavenumbers to about 39 560 wavenumbers) that can be phasematched by changing the temperature of KDP."
"Modulation of the amplitude of oscillation of an ammonia beam maser is discussed for those cases where the molecular beam passes through a single cavity and two cavities in succession. It is shown that experiments using a single cavity in which the molecular beam flux is modulated by variations of the EHT applied to the state separator can yield information about the velocities of the molecules which contribute to the oscillation power. In the cascaded cavity case complex behavior is observed when either the molecular flux or the matching to the first cavity is modulated. These effects are interpreted in terms of the static characteristics of the cascaded cavity system. A self-modulation phenomenon and unusual variations of the oscillation amplitude are also reported for the cascaded cavity system which is obtained for a beam flux just above the oscillation threshold. These results and their interpretation in terms of the resolved hyperfine structure of N14H3are discussed."
"The characteristics of aQ-switched CO2-N2-He molecular laser are considered. In particular, it has been found that a 3-W continuous system gives aQ-switch output power in excess of 10 kW per pulse. A method for determining rotational collision cross sections for CO2is discussed, and an induced fluorescence technique is described which is capable of giving cross sections for vibrational relaxation in CO2. The importance of various collisional coupling mechanisms and relaxation rates in determining total CW andQ-switch output power is also considered."
"The effect of isotopic substitution on the natural frequencies of vibrational-rotational transitions in diatomic and triatomic molecules is discussed in order to show how new infrared maser frequencies can be obtained which differ significantly from the original. The magnitude of this effect, in which the ratio of the original frequency to the isotopically shifted frequency may be as great as 1.4 in one case considered, is to be constrasted with the corresponding isotope effect on the frequency of electronic transitions in atoms, where the shift in frequency thus obtained is extremely small, typically amounting to one part in 104. The calculated effect of the isotope shift on the frequencies of two known diatomic molecular infrared masers is given for selected isotopes. The results of an experiment in which 018was substituted for 016in the CO2infrared maser are given as an interesting example of the isotope effect on a triatomic molecule. It is found that the dominant 10.6 μ maser transition in C12O216is shifted to 9.4 μ while the 9.5 μ transition is shifted to 10.4 μ as a result of double substitution of O18for O16in the CO2molecule. In conclusion, several advantages for spectroscopy and infrared technology are mentioned as resulting from the availability of new coherent infrared sources."
"The excitation mechanisms and relaxation processes will be described for a closed molecular gas laser of 240 cm length and 2.3 cm diameter filled with 1 torr carbon dioxide, 2.5 torr nitrogen, and 7.2 torr helium; the influence of adding 0.2 torr water vapor is discussed. When all the four components are present, an output of 103 watts is reached with an efficiency of 12.5 percent. It will be argued that in the absence of water vapor the deactivation of the lower laser level is rate determining for the radiation production. However, the addition of water vapor (0.2 torr) contributes greatly to depopulating the lower laser level by thermal relaxation, and it makes the output increase by more than a factor of two. In the latter case the vibrational excitation of the nitrogen molecules by electron impact is rate determining. We have observed that small amounts of impurities with partial pressures, sometimes less than 10-2torr, may cause a considerable decrease of radiation output. This \"poisoning\" effect, caused by very small impurity concentrations, can be avoided by using a discharge tube made from fused silica (quartz)."
"The masses, energies, and numbers of ions emitted by a tungsten surface upon irradiation with a laser beam have been studied using a time-of-flight spectrometer. For light fluxes of 20 to 70 MW/cm2the ion emission consists primarily of adsorbed species. Ion energies up to 180 eV have been measured. It is shown that inverse Bremsstrahlung cannot account for the high energies observed."
"Time-resolved spectroscopic measurements were made of the decay of a laser-produced discharge in hydrogen over a range of pressures from one to 70 atmospheres. The plasma temperature, which ranged from about 105to10^{4}\\degK during theQ-switched laser pulse to several microseconds afterward, was obtained from the ratio of the intensity of Hαto that of nearby continuum radiation. The electron density, which ranged from about 1019to 1017per cm3was obtained from the time history of the Stark linewidths of HαSince the high collision rates ensure approximate local thermodynamic equilibrium, several important characteristics of the plasma could be calculated from the measured temperature and density, such as optical absorption at the laser frequency due to inverse bremsstrahlung and photoionization. The energy deposited by the laser was measured from the decrease of the transmitted laser beam. Scattered radiation seemed small. The observed laser absorption is about two orders of magnitude larger than that calculated for a Maxwellian electron distribution. The calculated line absorption for Hαwas consistent with self-absorption observed in the Hαspectral profile. The ratio of the measured watts of Hαto the calculated watts/cm3yielded values for the volume of the luminous region which generally decreased with gas pressure from 10-3to 10-4cm3, as observed."
"Gas-dynamic equations are studied for determination of heating, vaporization, and expansion of substance when a radiation ofQ-switched laser is collimated onto a surface of solids. A possibility of existence of the self-regulating regime of vaporization and heating in one-dimensional case is proved for the case when an optical density value of the vapored gas is about unity in all the stages of this process. The values for temperature and velocity of the substance expansion are obtained. An approximate consideration of this problem is carried out when a spherical case of expansion takes place describing substance vaporization by a strong-focused radiation. The experimental investigation data of gas dynamic values are presented for the case of \"plume\" arising from collimated laser radiation interactions with the energy of several hundred MeV. Results obtained in experiments permit to calculate temperature, expansion velocity, and optical transparency of vapored substance for different stages of this process."
"Oscillation and amplification have been observed in a fiber in which the core is passive glass and the cladding is neodymium-doped glass. As in conventional fiber optics, the refractive index of the core is greater than that of the cladding, so that light is carried in the core by total internal reflection. The results are interpreted as meaning that the reflection coefficient at the interface between passive core and laser cladding is greater than unity. Expressed in waveguide terminolgy, modes which are guided by the high index passive core, but have a substantial portion of their energy in the cladding, can be amplified by means of an active cladding."
"In the limit of excellent optical quality of laser rods, the beam divergence will be determined by the optical distortion produced in the rod brought about by nonuniform absorption of pump light. For ruby lasers this has been shown to be approximately spherical and reproducible from firing-to-firing. Thus it should be possible to compensate for this by means of an external mirror having a curvature opposite to that induced in the rod, and by this technique reduce the beam divergence. The distortion produced in the rod is described in terms of a ray matrix of a thick lens whose focal length is a function of the input energy to the rod. A procedure is given for measuring this focal length to within ± 3 percent; it involves measuring the beat frequencies between transverse modes of a flat-mirror cavity containing the laser rod as an active element. After compensating an excellent optical quality rod with an external mirror, a brightness gain of about 100 was achieved simultaneously with single transverse mode operation (TEM00) at pump energies as high as 40 percent over threshold. This procedure for achieving single transverse mode operation is advantageous compared to other methods since 1) no extra elements are needed in the cavity, 2) the beam divergence is near the diffraction limit for the rod holder, and 3) the TEM00mode is not only selected but enhanced in volume, thus increasing the power output in this mode and the mode stability of the laser."
"A simple method of measuring the losses of a ruby laser resonant cavity has been developed in which the thresholds for R1line and R2line operation are compared. A quartz birefringent filter is placed in the cavity with quartz disk cut to allow Brewster-angle operation and of such a thickness that the separation between pass bands of the filter analyzer combination is 28 Å. The analyzer, placed between the filter and the output mirror, consists of a stack of fused quartz plates at the Brewster-angle. A known loss is introduced into the cavity by means of a plate inclined to the laser beam at a known angle. With the filter set for R2operation the threshold is adjusted to a suitable value by rotating the loss plate to give an attenuation L2/pass. The filter is then reset for R1operation and a different (larger) attenuation L1must be introduced by the loss plate to raise the R1threshold to the same level. An analysis of the threshold populations of the2Elevels shows that the losses of the cavity due to aU sources of loss other than the loss plate may be obtained from a plot of\\log L_{1}, against\\log L_{2}."
"Q-switched laser operation has been observed using a liquid selenium mirror as one of the reflectors in a ruby laser. Detailed measurements of the changes in reflectivity of liquid selenium under ruby laser giant pulse excitation were obtained using a pulsed argon ion laser to monitor the reflectivity variations. With liquid selenium, an initial decrease in reflectivity was observed which was followed by oscillations. The initial decrease was attributed to deformation of the liquid surface by heating. TheQ-switched behavior is attributed to the periodic deformation and heating of the liquid selenium mirror."
"A mathematical model of the previously described fully pumped feedback-controlledQ-switched laser is presented. Derivations of the equations that govern beam intensity and other variables are described in detail, and techniques for obtaining computer solutions are discussed. Validity of the model has been demonstrated by the good correlation of computer results with experimental measurements."
"The optical absorption of several substances has been found to depend in a reversible way on the incident light flux [1]-[5] of a high intensity laser. Moreover, it has been observed [6]-[7] that the absorption decreases not only at the laser wavelength but simultaneously within a large band around this wavelength. These effects may be explained by a time-dependant population distribution among the different excited states of absorbing molecules during the strong laser excitation [8]. The following experimental results enable us to determine the different time constants of importance in this phenomenon."
"By saturated absorption of color centers in glass, selfQ-switched pulses are obtained, as in glass codoped with UO22+and Nd3+. One of the commonly used laser glasses contains 5 wt. percent Nd2O3in a glass base consisting of 72 wt. percent SiO2, 11 K2O, 8 Na2O, 1 Li2O, 5 BaO, 2 Al2O and 1 Sb2O3. The antimony is added for bubble removal in making the glass and to prevent solarization. If the antimony is left out, color centers are produced by ultraviolet light whose wavelength is shorter than 300 nm. Three broad absorption bands result, which are stable at room temperature. They are centered at 310 nm, 450 nm, and 620 nm. The stable color centers are bleached on exposure to visible or ultraviolet light of wavelength longer than 300 nm and they are completely bleached after heating to 200°C for one hour. Additional color centers are produced with room temperature decay times short enough so that they are in the glass only while the ultraviolet from the flashlamp is present. At 300°K, the short lived color centers give a 5 percent/cm at 1 μm and are responsible for saturated absorption in the laser."
"Due to the different environments, the fluorescence line of Nd3+in glass can be considered as the envelope of the different fluorescence lines of the ions. It is a typical example of an hlhomogeneously broadened line. One can conceive that energy can be transferred between ions of different energy spectrum. Our observations seem to confirm such a cross-relaxation process. In particular, the emission linewidth of aQ-spoiled laser (about 20 Å at 3 dB below maximum) changes very little with respect to the emitted energy in contrast to the spectral width, over which the fluorescence intensity drops sharply due to laser action, which depends upon the laser output energy. This spectral width is very much larger than the emitted spectrum (a few hundreds of angstroms). The lifetime of the4I_{11/2}level, the terminal level of laser action at 1.06 μm, has never been measured so far. A possible 5 μm fluorescence from4I_{11/2}to4I_{9/2}would be absorbed by the glass. DuringQ-switched laser action, there is evidence that the4I_{11/2}level becomes rapidly populated through stimulated emissions from the4F_{3/2}level. This4I_{11/2}population decreases as the pulse duration increases from 25 to 90 ns which indicates a4I_{11/2}lifetime of order of magnitude a few tens of nanoseconds. A calculation was made according to the model of Lengyel and Wagner. A fourth level with a finite lifetime was introduced in their three-level system. The experimental data is in qualitative agreement with the prediction of this simplified theory, but does not allow more than an order of magnitude estimate of the4I_{11/2}lifetime."
"A giant pulse laser action with high repetition rate is obtained in CaF2Dy2+using a dc pumping xenon lamp. The laser parameters have a radiation wavelength of 2.36, a pulse duration of 1.2 . 10-2ns, a pulse maximum power output of 2 kW, and a repetition frequency of 200 c/s."
"The interaction of hypersound and light inside a laser cavity with Stokes feedback is studied. Quantum equations of motion for the creation operators of the laser and Stokes modes, and the acoustic mode coupled to them, are derived. Using the quasi-classical approximation, these equations are transformed into a system of nonlinear differential equations for the classical field amplitudes. Stationary solutions of the system are obtained and the conditions under which such solutions exist are determined. Instability criteria are also established."
"Semiconductor behavior in strong fields having a frequency close to the absorption band is considered. It is proved that only the slowing down and recombination times of four different relaxation times are of importance for weaker fields. In this case, equality of Fermi-level electron and hole quasi-levels to light quantum energy corresponds to a saturation condition. A semiconductor absorption coefficient regarding saturation is calculated."
"The operation of the interband magnetooptical semiconductor laser has been realized by two techniques, viz., injection and optical pumping. This paper considers the theory of the electro-magnetic modes and threshold conditions which can be applied to either of these configurations. In addition, the bulk magnetooptical laser, which can in principle be realized by electronbeam pumping, is also considered. Because of the mode-coupling due to the magnetic field, neither TE nor TM modes alone are adequate to describe the electro-magnetic wave propagating in the laser. Moreover, an exact solution of the complete boundary value problem is not feasible. However, we have derived an expression for the propagation constant by using a linear combination of the TE and TM modes given at zero field in a perturbation theory. This expression is in terms of the propagation constants of the unperturbed TE and TM modes and the perturbation of the conductivity tensor due to the magnetic field."
"A discussion is given of frequency modulation of a semiconductor laser using ultrasonic waves. The principle used is the modulation of the dielectric constant of the material by the sound waves. This modulates the laser output due to the refractive index dependence of the mode frequencies. It is shown that a very high index of modulation can be achieved. Experimental results are reviewed for a gallium arsenide diode laser. Limitations of this technique and possible devices are considered."
"High semiconductor gain coefficients (several hundreds of reverse centimeters) allow obtaining light generation by means of thin films imposed on the Fabri-Perot resonator mirror surface. In this case, semiconductor excitation can be produced by either light or an electron beam. With the help of such generators it becomes possible to significantly increase radiation energy and to improve its coherence. Coherent summing up of the radiation energy of several separate semiconductor or other types of lasers can be made through such a kind of system. At present, semiconductor lasers with radiating mirrors are developed by excitation using both an electron beam and a radiation of neodymium laser glass."
"In experimental studies, light from a continuous-wave argon ion laser was scattered by an argon plasma generated by a theta pinch. Resonance scattering was observed both by angular scattering techniques and by interferometry. The scattering data were correlated with properties of the plasma by measuring the time resolved spectra of the plasma. The time resolved density of excited states of argon II was measured and the relationship of these density data to local thermal equilibrium in the plasma are discussed."
"Close to an atomic resonance, the dependence of the real part of the susceptibility on power level (i.e., saturation effects) can be sizeable and therefore lead to self-trapping or self-focusing. It is shown here under what conditions this effect can occur. Order of magnitude estimates are given for the intensity dependent index change and the diameter of the trapped beam for some laser materials."
"The output intensity of a laser can be internally modulated by time-varying perturbation of the losses in the laser cavity. This technique greatly improves the efficiency of modulation over the external modulation methods, and is therefore important for various proposed applications of lasers. We have studied the intra-cavity loss perturbation in a He-Ne laser utilizing the diamagnetic Faraday effect in glasses. In comparison with electrooptic crystals, glasses introduce a much smaller amount of static optical loss to the cavity, resulting in a higher output from the laser. Experimental observations of the modulated laser output confirm the predictions of our theoretical analysis. Furthermore, this modulation technique enables us to measure Faraday rotation of the modulator material as small as 0.01 seconds of arc, which represents an enhancement of the measurement sensitivity by two orders of magnitude over the conventional technique."
"A class of lasers which operates by cyclic excitation and relaxation in atomic vapor discharges is discussed. The required energy level structure for maximum efficiency is described. Pulsed laser action in neutral atomic copper vapor at 5105.54Å (58 dB/m, 2 kW peak power) and at 5782.13Å (42 dB/m, 0.6 kW peak power) provides experimental verification and promises high efficiency. Pulsed laser action was also observed in ionized calcium at 8542.09Å and 8662.14Å. Both have saturated gains of 58 dB/m and a total peak power output above 30 W."
"The theory of broadening and shift of the spectral lines including the statistical dependence of Doppler and impact broadenings is developed. One of the results of this theory is the possibility of obtaining asymmetric line profiles. With the aid of this theory, one can explain the experimental results of A. Szoke and A. Javan concerning the pressure effects on the dip in the power output of the gas laser."
"A new class of self-trapped light filaments has been discovered and its properties investigated. These filaments have a very small diameter, (\\sim 5 \\mu), contain a few ergs of energy, and last a very short time, (\\lsim 1/ns). Stimulated Raman emission occurs in these small filaments with high initial gain at the beginning of the filament and apparent saturation towards its end. Possible mechanisms for the creation, containment, and termination of these filaments are discussed."
"A method for producing a scanned beam of light from a laser has been devised and tested in our laboratories, and appears to be applicable to a high deflection rate scanner. Scanning is accomplished through the use of a pulsed optical delay line located within a special, enlarged laser cavity. Narrow shear pulses, traveling through the delay line, convert some of the incident, plane polarized laser light to the orthogonal polarization by means of the photoelastic effect. The converted light is diffracted and is removed from the cavity by spatial filtering at a cavity focus. The light removed in this manner is imaged onto a screen. Since the delay line is inside the cavity, light passing around the shear pulse is recirculated and not wasted. Since quartz has a shear wave propagation velocity of 3840 m/s, a delay line resonant at 30 Mc/s can propagate pulses about 0.13 mm wide. A beam 100 mm in diameter would have 770 spot locations. The system has been operated with a delay line resonant at 10 Mc/s in a 1.5 cm collimated laser beam. A resolution of 15 spot positions was obtained with a beam power of 4 mW. For TV projection applications, scanning in the orthogonal direction and modulation would be accomplished with external devices."
"A stimulated emission version of the Dodd and Series double-resonance experiment has been performed in neon on the 1.15-μ and 1.52-μ lasing transitions using a He-Ne gas laser placed in a transverse magnetic field. Auxiliary coils wound on the laser tube provide a RF magnetic field orthogonal to the transverse field. Changes in the laser intensity at values of the transverse field which are rational fractions of the field for which the Larmor frequency equals the RF frequency are observed in accordance with theory. The measured linewidth of resonance is 45 ± 10 MHz for the 1.15-μ transition and 40 ± 10 MHz for the 1.52-μ transition, indicating that the natural width of excited states is observed. We have obtained theg-factor for the2s_{2}level in neon;g = 1.23 \\pm .05. As the laser cavity length is adjusted to provide axial mode separations in the neighborhood of the RF frequency, varying numbers of resonances are seen. These effects are discussed on the basis of a threshold theory in which transition probabilities are calculated with coherent matrix elements."
"A powerful light pulse propagation through an optical amplifier driven at saturation was studied theoretically and experimentally. It was shown that the maximum light pulse of aQ-switched laser propagates through amplifying medium with velocity much higher than the light velocity without any essential decrease of pulse duration. Conditions of reducing pulse duration by nonlinear amplification were found. It was found necessary to increase the leading edge rise time of the light pulse. \"Superlight\" velocity of propagation was measured in experiments. Appreciable reduction of pulse duration by nonlinear amplification was achieved experimentally when the leading edge of the input light pulse had been cut down by an additional Kerr cell."
"The quality factorQof optical resonators increases if the cavity losses are reduced by means of an active medium. In this case, the resonator works analogous to a classical RF amplifier, the amplification of which is increased by feedback. Significant for this amplifier type is increasing gainGand decreasing bandwidth\\delta vwith increasing single-pass gain G0. An approximate theoretical treatment shows that the bandwidth root gain product should be a constant\\delta v \\sqrt{G}= const. Our experiments show that this relation is well performed at low signal intensities. At the point nearest to threshold a maximum gain of 20 000 and a minimum bandwidth of 2.104c/s was realized. The amplifier device was used for a measurement of electron densities down to 3.1012cm-3in a helium plasma."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"Thermodynamic information of importance may be obtained from a study of temporal fluctuations such as occur in a dielectric fluid near its critical point. Starting from the original implementation by H. Z. Cummins et al., we have, in the course of such work, refined the instrument and its analysis. We describe our instrument together with analysis and measurements intended to illustrate its properties and suggest new applications."
"A general equation is derived for the dynamical behavior of the laser. The analytic form of the family of solutions to this equation is found for the practically most important case of deep modulation of the laser output. The obtained results are used for studying a series of the following actual problems: external regulation of laser pulsation, establishment of continuous pulsating conditions for the maser and semiconductor lasers, and a study of periodic pulsations in a laser with a saturating filter."
"As part of a laser radar program, a single-mode ruby laser transmitter has been developed having the following properties: Master Oscillator: power output ≈ 20 kW; pulse width =1μs; repetition rate = 1 pps. Power Amplifier: (measured gain 24 dB). This paper describes results obtained with this laser transmitter. The techniques to determine the key properties of this laser transmitter are described along with the actual results that have been obtained. The particular characteristics of interest are 1) coherence of the laser, 2) frequency shift of \"chirp\" during the pulse, and 3) method of achieving the single mode."
"The results of a number of experiments dealing with the output spectra of Nd: YAG and ruby lasers are presented. The aim of these experiments is to determine and clarify, at least qualitatively, the mechanisms responsible for the observed overall linewidths of Nd : YAG lasers. Two such mechanisms which may be expected to be present in solid-state lasers are inhomogeneous broadening of the fluorescent line, and slow spatial relaxation. In general, the experiments have indicated that the situation in Nd: YAG is considerably less clear-cut than in ruby. Thus, in ruby the inhomogeneously broadened linewidth is quite narrow and, therefore, plays essentially no role in determining the linewidth of ruby laser output spectra. Instead, the overall linewidth seems to be determined entirely by effects caused by slow spatial relaxation. In Nd : YAG, depending on the particular rod, the laser linewidth can be determined by inhomogeneous broadening, spatial relaxation effects, or a combination of the two. Indications are that spatial relaxation is faster in Nd: YAG than in ruby. However, in good quality Nd: YAG rods, slow spatial relaxation still seems to play a dominant role."
"CaF2: Sm2+laser action in temperature range 65 to 90°K is obtained with giant pulse ruby laser excitation. In addition to usual laser wavelength 0.708 μm, two other wavelengths 0.720 and 0.729 μm, known before only in luminescence, are observed for this oscillator. The oscillation duration is of 50 ns and it coincides with the pumping light duration. The efficiency of energy transformation is equal to 20 percent."
"The transfer of energy from single chromium ions to closely coupled pairs of chromium ions in ruby has been investigated. Ruby samples whose concentrations ranged from 0.003 to 1.0 percent Cr2O3were prepared and in each crystal the intensity of single-ion fluorescence and of pair fluorescence was accurately measured. Radiative decay measurements were also made in an attempt to unravel the dynamics of the transfer process. The transfer from single ions to pairs is shown to occur nonradiatively, and its efficiency is enhanced by a fast energy transfer between individual single ions. The possibility is explored that an electric quadrupole-quadrupole interaction is responsible for this transfer process."
"The statistical properties of light such as from an optical maser are related to the observable characteristics of multiphoton absorption processes. It is shown that multiphoton absorption provides a technique for investigating the coherence properties of intense light sources. Several simple models for the radiation field are considered, and the statistical properties of these models are derived and discussed."
"The quenching of one pulsed ruby laser oscillation by another is investigated. Coupled rate equations, which yield both the steady-state and transient behavior of two coupled lasers, are the basis of a theoretical analysis of the interaction. An experimental investigation of the effect has been performed, and comparisons between theory and experiment are favorable."
"A single-mode 6328Å He-Ne laser is described which has a single-frequency power output of 50 mW. Amethodof stabilizing the output of this laser is described, and experimental results are quoted to show that the output can be stabilized to the resonance frequency of a stable reference cavity to within ± 1 Mc/s. This stabilization scheme has two advantages over an earlier scheme used with such a single-mode laser: 1) the output is neither amplitude nor frequency modulated by the feedback system; and 2), the output coupling may be continuously varied so that optimum output may be obtained without experimenting with mirrors of various transmissivities."
"An experimental and theoretical study is reported on second-harmonic generation (SHG) by focused laser beams in nonlinear crystals which are large compared to the extent of the focus. The gas laser beam is in the lowest order (Gaussian) mode and very close to index-matching conditions in the crystal. The intensity pattern of the SHG observed photographically has roughly the shape of a half moon with a very sharp edge. Fine structure has been observed consisting of a series of fringes extending from the edge into the bright region. The power has also been measured as a function of crystal orientation, and the position of the edge has been determined for the orientation giving maximum power. The theoretical treatment of the problem is based upon an exact formula for the second-harmonic field for the case in which the laser beam is in a Gaussian mode. A detailed analysis of the experimental data is presented which shows the theory to be in quantitative as well as qualitative agreement with experiment."
"An experimental laser configuration used to investigate controlling by feedback the emission of a fully-pumpedQ-switched ruby laser is described. The objective has been to develop a laser system capable of emitting a 10-kW rectangular pulse of from 5 to 10 microseconds duration. Feedback control of the laser has been achieved. However, a high-frequency instability observed in a small portion of each pulse must be eliminated to give the desired constant amplitude. Theoretical calculations based on a mathematical model of the feedback-controlled laser correlate dramatically with experimental results in predicting the frequency and the onset time of the instability."
"By combining the describing function approach with a large signal transistor model and certain simplifying assumptions, it has been possible to develop a set of universal curves yielding selflimiting operating amplitudes for a large class of transistor sinewave oscillators. The variable parameter in this presentation is the dc voltage drop across the emitter bias resistor in the circuit with oscillations absent. Since this parameter may be easily calculated, the material presented allows the design of oscillators for any allowable operating amplitude. In a companion paper the method is extended to include collector saturation limiting and calculations of the onset of squegging."
"The analysis of the switching action of a tunnel diode is extended to include the effects of the collector transition region capacitance which arise when a tunnel diode is driven from a common-emitter transistor stage. A piece-wise linear analysis is used which predicts the collector voltage waveform and switching times with good accuracy. The turn-off time constant is shown to be related to the transient current gain\\delta_0 = \\frac {\\alpha_0(C_L + C_{TC})} {(1-\\alpha_0)C_L + C_{TC} }rather than directly to the static current gains\\alpha_0or\\alpha_0/( 1 - \\alpha_0 )"
"During the investigation of a cryogenic pulse-storage device containing a tunnel diode coupled to an open-circuited delayline, oscillations were observed which abruptly changed frequency with variations of bias. This paper is an inquiry into the causes and nature of these oscillations. The investigation is resolved into two interdependent sections. Section I presents the construction of a model that contains the significant features of the oscillator and its analysis. Section II consists of an experimental determination of the variation of oscillation frequency with bias. The frequency of oscillation is found to exhibit sharp steps as bias varies, hence, the term \"discrete frequency oscillator.\""
"A systematic method of selecting state variables and formulating the normal form differential equations of general classes of nonlinear networks is presented. It is shown that the key problem in the formulation of the differential equations is the calculation of certain functions which appear in these equations. Iterative procedures for the calculation of these functions are given for certain classes of networks, and it is shown that the conditions for convergence of these procedures are closely related to certain physical properties of the network. These procedures are readily adaptable to machime computation and can be made an integral part of any numerical method used for the solution of the differential equations of the network."
"Two operations for augmenting networks (linear graphs) are defined: edge insertion and vertex insertion. These operations are sufficient to allow the construction of arbitrary nonseparable networks, starting with a simple circuit. The tree graph of a network is defined as a linear graph in which each vertex corresponds to a tree of the network, and each edge corresponds to an elementary tree transformation between trees of the network. A property of tree graphs, referred to as \"Property H,\" is defined: ift_{\\alpha}andt_bare two trees of a network, and ift_{\\alpha}andt_bare related by an elementary tree transformation, then there exists a Hamilton Circuit through the tree graph such thatt_{\\alpha}andt_bare adjacent in the circuit. It is shown that any tree graph containing more than two vertices has Property H."
"In this paper we generalize Youla's theory of broadband matching to include both passive and active 1-port load impedances. The design philosophy of lossless coupling networks for an active load is different from that of a passive load; however, the design theory is quite similar. The theory is illustrated in a detailed example with a tunnel diode as the active load. Both series resistance and inductance are used in the equivalent circuit representation. New results in terms of theoretical limitation on gain-bandwidth and a sufficient condition for potential stability are obtained."
"It is first shown that the power gain of a filter which has been partitioned into two component parts may be expressed in terms of a formula involving only the two impedances seen looking to the left and the right of the common junction. By imposing the constraints of symmetry and antimetry this formula leads quite naturally to two global equations for positive-real (pr) functions. Theorems 1 and 2 present necessary and sufficient conditions for the existence of solutions. Moreover, the construction of these pr functions is made to depend on two algorithms of an extremely simple character. The theory is fully illustrated by means of four worked, nontrivial examples. Finally, it is pointed out that synthesis by bisection is often wasteful of reactances (especially in the symmetric case), and a careful count of elements is presented for antimetric filters."
"This paper solves the problem of synthesizing twovariable reactance functions and matrices, symmetric or nonsymmetric. This problem has not been solved so far even for twovariable reactance functions except for the case where the functions are prescribed as bilinear functions of one of the two variables. As the basis for solving the problem, several theorems are derived from the definitions of the two-variable reactance function and matrix. It is shown that an arbitrarily prescribed two-variable reactance matrixW(\\lamda,\\mu )of ordernis realizable as the immittance matrix of a passive \"two-variable n-port\", which is bilateral or nonbilateral accordingly as W is symmetric or nonsymmetric. Synthesis of a two-variable reactance function is included as a special case wheren = 1. Related problems are discussed in addition."
"The bandwidth of the nonoverdriven abrupt-junction varactor doubler is considered, where the bandwidth is defined as that range of frequencies over which the ratio of the output power to available power exceeds some constantT_{\\min}, when driven by a source whose available power remains constant as the frequency is varied. Upper bounds on the bandwidth as a function ofT_{\\min}are derived for the lossless case. Networks are given which yield large bandwidths and their performance compared with the upper bound. Their performance is also given in the presence of loss."
"A gain-bandwidth limitation is derived in this paper for parametric amplifiers incorporating an arbitrary number of varactor diodes. Fornvaractors with parametersC_{0\\tau}, andC_{1\\tau},\\tau = 1,2,\\cdots,n, the optimum gain-bandwidth limitation is given by(G_{T})_{n}\\leq \\cosh^{2}[\\frac{\\pi\\sqrt{\\omega_{s0}\\omega_{i0}}} {\\omega_0} \\Sum_{r=1}^{n} \\frac {C_{1\\tau}} {C_{0\\tau}}], where(G_{T})_{n}- is the maximum flat transducer power gain,\\omega_{c}is the equivalent low-pass bandwidth, and\\omega_{s0}and\\omega_{i0}are the signal and idler band-center frequencies, respectively. This result is based on the three-frequency model for the varactor device and is essentially a generalization of the gain-bandwidth limitation for single-varactor parametric amplifiers published recently by the author [2]."
"The expressions for available power gain and noise measure of linear two-ports are introduced in terms of the two-port parameters and the gain and the noise parameters, respectively. Their graphical representations on the source admittance plane with rectangular coordinates are also shown. Furthermore, it is shown that the behavior of available power gain, noise figure, and noise measure can be represented on the Smith-chart or the complex reflection coefficient plane of the source admittance. It is more convenient to investigate the gain and noise performance of amplifiers over a wide range of source admittance in this representation than with rectangular coordinates. As an example of the graphical representation the gain and noise performance of a microwave transistor is illustrated on the Smith-chart."
"Necessary and sufficient conditions for a matrix to be realizable as the A-matrix of an RLC network are developed. The RLC network is assumed to have no cut-set of inductors, no circuit of capacitors, and is assumed to have a connected resistive part. It is shown that if there exists a realization then the given matrix A can be factored into two matrices: one, a diagonal matrix of positive entries, and the other a symmetric-skew-symmetric (hybrid) matrix. The former determines directly the values of capacitances and inductances in the network. A technique is given by which the terminal matrix of the resistive part and the fundamental circuit matrix of the reactive part can be obtained from the other factor. It is shown that the given matrix A has a realization with a half-degenerate RLC network which has a connected resistive part if and only if the factorization exists and both the terminal matrix and the circuit matrix are realizable with the same terminal tree."
"The primary aim of differential amplifiers is amplification of differential-mode input voltages and the suppression of common-mode input voltages. The problem of common-mode rejection of transistor-differential amplifiers is investigated. It is shown that in addition to the known possibilities of biasing differential stage from a constant current source and of providing common-mode negative feedback, increase of the internal colletector resistance, and the gain of the differential stage permit increasing the common-mode rejection to practically arbitrarily large values A transistor circuit is shown with a common-mode rejection of more than 140 dB."
"A basic problem in network theory is the determination of the displacements of the natural frequencies of a system, due to small variations in its elements. This problem is usually solved by evaluating the effect of the variation of each element. In the following, the unknown displacements are determined directly in terms of the variation of all elements. The analysis includes the regular case with simple and multiple roots, and the singular case resulting from an increase of the order of the system function."
"A problem that arises in many practical applications of linear graphs and in some purely mathematical applications is the determination of the isomorphism of two given graphs; such applications include the automatic retrieval of information, machine translation of languages, pipeline and electric networks, pattern recognition, graph-theoretic enumeration problems, the four-color conjecture, and the problem of \"squaring the rectangle.\" Up to the present time only heuristic programs have been developed for solving this problem for general graphs. In this paper, a solution for a class of graphs is given in terms of a simple and computationally efficient algorithm, which is ideally suited for computer programming; a program in MAD language has been written but has not yet been run. The class of graphs considered are planar and triply connected; this class arises, for example, in the four-color problem and in the problem of squaring the rectangle. The algorithm is applicable to both directed and undirected graphs and to simple graphs and multigraphs. The algorithm is based on Trémaux's procedure for generating an Euler path in a graph. Application of the algorithm to a plane triply connected graph yields a set of vector codes which are ordered lexicographically in a code matrix."
"A computational algorithm is presented for determining whether a graph is planar. All of the operations of the algorithm are expressed in terms of the incidence matrix of the graph. If the graph is nonplanar, the algorithm systematically identifies a set of edges whose deletion yields a subgraph that is planar. A simple procedure for drawing the planar subgraph is also presented. The algorithm has been programmed for a computer and is computationally efficient. The program can also be used to obtain a planar partition of a nonplanar graph. The algorithm is based on a decomposition theorem which reduces the problem of testing the planarity of an arbitrary graphGto the problem of testing the planarity of a set of \"pseudo-Hamiltonian\" graphs which are systematically formed fromG. The necessary and sufficient conditions that a pseudo-Hamiltonian graph be planar are presented. These conditions are expressed directly in terms of the incidence matrix of the graph. The incidence matrix implementation is applied to arbitrary graphs by means of the decomposition theorem. Several techniques which are necessary to insure the convergence and computational efficiency of the algorithm are given."
"Behavior of 1-port or n-port two-state networks under lossless reciprocal transformations is studied. Transformations include both those preserving and those not preserving the number of. terminal pairs. The group invariants and canonical forms are found, and their physical meaning is elucidated. The group invariants are viewed as the measure of change in performance and, therefore, may be used as the figure of merit when the two-state network is used as a switch, modulator, etc. Theorems are stated in both impedance-matrix and scattering matrix representations. These theorems make it possible to synthesize several two-state networks in an optimum way with respect to the number and figure of merit of \"material\" impedance pairs."
"In this paper synthesis of one terminal-pair contact networks is discussed. Concepts of graph theory are used in an attempt to obtain a minimal realization of a given switching function. A tentative cut-set matrix is defined as a dual of the circuit matrix. The latter corresponds to the representation of the switching function as a sum of products, and the former, as a product of sums. It is shown that for a broad class of switching functions [which is a certain extension of the single contact (SC) functions], there exists a pair of dual, orthogonal matrices. Conditions are given under which the realization of one of these matrices turns out to be a minimal one."
"This paper proposes a solution to the problem of designing a filter of given structure, incorporating nonideal elements, to meet or exceed given insertion loss specifications subject to element value bounds. This problem is reformulated as a nonlinear programming problem, i.e., minimize an objective function subject to inequality constraints, whose solution yields a filter optimal in a min-max sense. To solve this problem, a recent penalty function approach is used, which converts the constrained problem into a sequence of unconstrained minimizations. These minimizations are carried out using a recent, very efficient, descent technique. The overall method is especially amenable to computer implementation. These techniques have been applied to the computer design of cascade crystal-realizable lattice filters. The results for several designs are presented, and are uniformly good."
"It has been shown that from the magnitudes of the six scattering coefficients of the general lossless, reciprocal threeport, the triplet of the three reflection coefficients (or of the three transmission coefficients) can be chosen within certain bounds. These bounds, constituting necessary and sufficient conditions for the realizability of the lossless reciprocal three-port, are derived."
"The choice of current as signal parameter leads to the design of amplifiers, in which voltage swings are minimized throughout. These amplifiers utilize the full accidental current gain of the transistors by employing a particular class of feedback systems, whose natural frequencies approach asymptotically a well-defined value as the loop-gain at dc approaches infinity. This design method provides complete control by external circuitry over transistors by grouping them in pairs or triples into building blocks which may be suitably interconnected into complete feedback amplifiers comprising six or more transistors in a single loop. Two practical examples are given for commerical current amplifiers( Manufactured by Elron Electronic Industries, Ltd., Haifa, Israel.) incorporating these design principles."
"This paper describes and proves convergence of a direct iteration method for solving networks composed of independent sources and nonlinear resistors, each of whose resistors has a continuous monotonically increasing characteristic with slope bounded from above and below by positive constants. The computer program which was written to implement this method is discussed in the second part of the paper. Mention is made of a heuristic refinement which in many cases was found to reduce significantly the time required for solution."
"This work presents a general method for the synthesis of any open-circuit transfer function, which is expressed as a rational function with real coefficients. It is shown that such functions can be realized by using two distributed RC elements (modified by active units if necessary), one negative impedance converter and one lumped capacitor. The distributed RC element used here is a three-layer structure, a pure dielectric sandwiched in between a perfect conductor and a resistive film."
"The family of low-pass filters under investigation in this paper possesses both the time-delay properties of Bessel filters and the attenuation properties of Butterworth filters owing to the fact that the transfer function employed approximates, in modulus and phase, the exponential function around the frequency origin. Moreover, the step response of these filters has a low rise-time. Examples are given pointing out the properties of this family of low-pass filters which appear to be suited for delay lines."
"Analysis of the transient responses of junction transistors in the case of inductive load is given in the paper. Principal relations characteristic for transient process, such as switching-on time, switching-on current value, switching-off voltage maximum value, etc., are derived. Special attention is paid to the aperiodic case and the conditions to be fulfilled in order to keep the collectoremitter switching-off voltage under supply voltage value. Comparison of the experimental results of the small-signal transient response with the theoretical prediction shows a good agreement. In the case of large-signal transient response, the dependence of the characteristic parameters on collector current and collector voltage should be taken into account."
"It is shown that the branch cuts of any one-valued branch of certain algebraic irrational functions can be interpreted in the potential analog model as dipole chains. From this interpretation rational approximants are deduced which are characterized by poles and zeros alternating along the branch cut(s), the detailed character of their distribution being related to the orderuof the branch cut in question. It is shown that the theory can account for the common features of approximants reported in the literature. Although it does not provide a straightforward recipe for tackling new problems, the theory is believed to be of potential usefulness in that it indicates the general nature of the required approximants."
"Circuit designers have devoted a considerable amount of attention to the problem of precorrecting for the losses that inevitably occur in physical reactances. The most successful approach in this connection has been to assume that all reactive elements have losses of the semi-uniform type (i.e., all inductors have oneQ; all capacitors have anotherQ). This approach was first used by Darlington [1] in 1939 and, since, has been extended by many others [2]-[10]. The available literature on semi-uniform loss provides many useful design procedures for filters of the insertion loss type. The literature does not provide a coherent synthesis theory, however. Indeed, a quick survey reveals that 1) the literature is concerned almost exclusively with the insertion loss configuration; 2) the synthesis procedures that have been developed are quite complex and provide little insight into the networks considered. The authors hope that the present paper will provide a more systematic basis for the synthesis of networks that incorporate semi-uniform loss. The approach used is to transform networks that contain lossy reactances into networks that contain more dearly ideal reactances. Conventional RLCT synthesis techniques are then applied. The approach proves remarkably successful. Indeed, the final theory is almost as comprehensive as that presently available for RLCT networks. The paper treats 1) realizability conditions, 2) the Brune procedure, 3) the Darlington (driving point) procedure, 4) the BottDuffin procedure, and finally 5) the insertion loss theory."
"This paper presents a procedure for the realization of an RC driving-point impedance (that hasnpoles, is finite ats = 0, and vanishes for large values ofs) in the form of an (n + 1)- node network with a capacitance and conductance in parallel between every pair of nodes. Element values are found directly from hyperdominant parameter matrices obtained through a linear transformation. Hyperdominancy is achieved by regarding the linear transformation as the product of two transformations, one orthogonal, the other a scaling, which establish the sign pattern and dominance, respectively, of the parameter matrices. The number of either capacitances or conductances can be reduced ton, and further reduction is possible too, although the realization is always noncanonic. Examples are included to illustrate the procedure."
"In this paper we exhibit an explicit formula for the number of trees in a certain type of network. In particular, we define, in Definition 3, the concept of an incompletely partitioned network, and offer in Theorem 9 a formula for the number of trees of an incompletely partitioned network. Our formulas include, as special cases, the formulas exhibited previously in the literature by Weinberg [1] and Bedrosian [2]."
"This paper deals with assignments of optimum flows in lossy communication nets. In a lossy communication net, each edgeehas an edge efficiency factor\\alpha_e (0 \\leq \\alpha_e \\leq 1)as well as an edge capacityC_e. If edgeeis an edge from nodexto nodey, then the flow\\psi(e, x)entering into nodexis not only limited by the edge capacity(0 \\leq \\psi(e, x) \\leq C_e)but also suffers a loss of(1 - \\alpha_e) \\cdot \\psi(e, x)in passing throughe, consequently,\\alpha_e \\cdot \\psi (e, x)emerges fromeat nodey. A flow\\psiwith the sending flow value\\hat{t}at the source and the receiving flow value\\underbrace{t}at the sink is said to be optimum if there is no flow which has less sending flow value value thantwhile having the same receiving value\\underbrace{t}. Necessary and sufficient conditions are described for the optimality of flows in Theorem 1 and Theorem 2. Based on these characterizations, dynamic programming of optimum flows in a lossy communication net is devised and demonstrated by an example."
"The transient and steady-state sensitivity functions of a general electrical network may be obtained directly by constructing a source-coupled auxiliary network. The node voltages and branch currents in this auxiliary network are shown by topological methods to be equivalent to the classically defined network sensitivity function. The computations required may be carried out with many general purpose digital network analysis programs without modification of the program."
"To determine a minimum set of arcs of an arbitrary directed graph which, if removed, leave the graph without directed circuits, is an outstanding problem in graph theory. A related problem is that of finding a minimum set of vertices which, if removed together with their incident arcs, leave the graph with no directed circuits. A closed form solution of both problems is presented. The determination of those minimum sets for a graph with n vertices involves the expansion of an n-th order permanent and some algebraic manipulations of the resultant expression, subject to the absorption laws of Boolean algebra. The proposed procedure renders all possible solutions simultaneously."
"Methods for generating constant resistance one-ports with nonlinear and time-varying elements are proposed. The first step is a general characterization of constant resistance one-ports with linear time-invariant elements. This characterization is then used to generate classes of one-ports whose elements may be nonlinear and time-varying. Examples are given of constant resistance one-ports that include one-ports which neither need to be currentcontrolled nor voltage-controlled. In one case, the necessary and sufficient conditions for constant resistance are given."
"This paper is concerned with the qualitative properties of a subclass of the class of nonlinear R, L, C networks for which there may be mutual coupling among elements of like type. Sufficient conditions are given which guarantee that such a network may be characterized by a set of nonlinear equations in normal form, which indicates a unique response for any excitation. Finally, a study of the stability of networks of this class indicates that for passive networks their asymptotic stability is in one-to-one correspondence with their \"weak observability\" at the resistor terminals."
"It has been shown that if the impulse response at the switch side of the input/output filter networks in a resonant transfer system has zeros at integer multiples of the switching time, then the steady-state performance of the system is given, simply, by the open-circuit current transfer characteristics of the filters. Because the impulse response is uniquely related to the current transfer function, the design problem becomes one of meeting system passband and stop-band loss specifications with a suitably chosen current transfer function, while at the same time, ensuring that this function is such that the impulse response is of the correct form. The design method presented in this paper achieves this objective with the help of automatic digital computation. The method is such that by controlling the magnitude of the maximum approximation errors to the impulse'response requirement, control is retained over the magnitude of the pass-band loss ripple and the magnitude of the minimum stop-band loss."
"An iterative procedure is presented which permits the determination of a rational transfer function in the Laplace transform variable s which is optimal with respect to given input and output time-functions. The optimal system of a particular order is defined as the one whose output when subjected to the known input function is nearest in the time integral square sense to the desired output function. The method is thus applicable to a number of problems involving the minimization of an integral square error. To illustrate the technique, a set of optimal lumped-parameter delay lines is synthesized and their characteristics investigated; the behavior and convergence of the iteration in these problems is also studied. A comparison of other iterative methods applicable to the same problems leads to the conclusion that the proposed procedure has real advantages in computational simplicity and speed of convergence."
"This paper concerns the terminal behavior of nonuniform lossless transmission lines of finite length, specifically, the properties of the scattering parameters of such lines. These parameters, normalized to passive source and load impedances, are expressed in terms of solutions to an integral equation in which the electrical length and the local characteristic impedance of the line are the independent parameters. It is shown that the input reflection factor (S_{11}, with the normalization used) of a smooth line of known electrical length, terminated in a known passive load, uniquely determines the local characteristic impedance and the remaining three scattering parameters of the line. A formal realizability theory is obtained in terms of the input reflection factor with resistive termination. The technique underlying this theory involves the reduction of the problem to the inversion of a Sturm-Liouville equation; a classic problem for which a well developed theory is available. This latter theory also suggests a possible synthesis procedure."
"The problem of approximating the ideal normalized amplitude response of a low-pass filter by the use of a set of ultraspherical polynomials is considered. The amplitude response obtained is more general than the analogous response of the Chebyshev filter because of an additional parameter available with the ultraspherical polynomials. It is shown that this additional parameter may be used to obtain a response having either less ripple or sharper cutoff than the Chebyshev response. The ultraspherical polynomial filter is shown to include as special cases the Chebyshev filter, the Butterworth filter, and a filter recently developed utilizing modified Legendre polynomials."
"The impulse and step responses of equal-element filters with varying degrees of dissipation have been calculated, and analytic expressions have been derived for the transient responses for any number of resonant circuits. The graphic results are presented for two through eight resonators. Such information, together with all amplitude, frequency, and dissipation variables presented as normalized parameters, can be used in the accurate design of equalelement filters for applications where the time-domain response is important. A digital computer was used to obtain the data. The data is discussed and numerical examples illustrating the use of the curves are presented."
"A \"switch-line\" is defined as a lumped transmission line containing in each section a series resistor, a shunt capacitor, and a shunt switch (switch open for voltages greater than some fixed threshold; switch closed otherwise). It is proved that this nonlinear, lossy line can propagate a waveform without attenuation and with constant time delay per section. An exact solution for the propagating waveform is derived, and a simple, approximate formula is given for the key result relating the threshold and the time delay per section. This formula is utilized in obtaining a corresponding relation between the parameters of a more general lumped line having a conductance in series with each switch."
"It is shown that there exists a class of networks, identical in topology with some of the linear constant-resistance structures developed by Zobel, which may be iterative with respect to a linear constant resistance but which posses nonlinear and frequency-dependent insertion transfer functions. Each network is based on two subnetworks containing nonlinear resistive and reactive elements, these sub-networks having voltage/current characteristics forming an inverse pair. The constant-resistance property is shown to depend on the nature of the input voltage as well as on the characteristics of the nonlinear subnetworks."
"Oscillations described by the generalized Li6nard equation\\ddot{x} + f(x)\\dot{x} + g(x) = 0(\\cdot = d/dt)are investigated in the Liénard plane. Whenf(x),g(x)andF(x)= \\int_{0}^{x}f(\\zeta)d\\zetaare subject to certain restrictions, a number of analytic curves can be obtained in this plane which serve as bounds on solution trajectories. Piecewise connection of such bounding curves provides explicit annular regions with the property that solution trajectories on the boundary of an annulus move to the interior with increasing time,t. The Poincaré-Bendixson theorem then guarantees that at least one periodic orbit exists within such an annulus. Particular attention is given to damping functions,f(x), which are asymmetric."
"The previous analysis of the amplitude limiting properties of transistor sine wave oscillators is extended to include the calculation of self-modulated or squegging conditions as well as the effects of collector-base diode saturation. The conditions for avoiding squegging are clearly defined in terms of known or directly measurable circuit parameters. If squegging is desired then a clear boundary is established between initial squegging that is sinusoidal and initial squegging that is exponential. For sinusoidal frequency squegging the squegging frequency is shown to be of the form(ql_{DC}/kT)(1/C')(f(x))where C' is a circuit parameter andf(x)is a plotted function of the oscillator feedback voltage."
"This paper is concerned with the problem of simulating transistors operating as switches, or as nonlinear amplifiers, for the IBM Electronic Circuit Analysis Program. A transistor equivalent circuit is developed and then converted into a form that is acceptable in ECAP language. The validity of the developed model is demonstrated by comparing the results of an ECAP analysis of a transistor inverter circuit and the experimentally measured waveforms."
"Presents revisions to various equations and formulas from the selected articles named above."
"In a multichannel transmission system for which the baseband power is proportional to the cumulative channel activity, an improvement in the perchannel SNR is possible by use of variable premodulation gain. This is an average improvement which results from maintaining the baseband signal power level at its maximum value by use of variable gain prior to modulation. For such a system the SNR improvement is proportional to the log of this gain."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"The subscriber loop plant of rural telephone systems is described on the basis of a nationwide sampling survey of the subscriber circuits of the REA telephone borrowers. The sample consists of 1000 main telephones drawn randomly from a universe of 1 375 000 main telephones under a statistical sampling plan. The survey provided a complete description of the plant serving each of the sampled telephones. By computer analysis of the data, patterns of plant composition, average costs, and distribution of subscribers in terms of distance from the serving central office are developed. The construction cost advantage of buried plant is stressed by showing how greatly pole lines (poles, crossarms, guys, etc.) contribute to the cost of serving rural subscribers by means of aerial plant. Guidelines are given for a plant improvement program to correct deviations from current standard design revealed by the survey data. The importance of the data for use in evaluating techniques for upgrading and establishing cost parameters for proposed subscriber carrier systems is indicated."
"In the above-named work it is argued that Weaver [ibid., vol. CS-I0. pp. 91l-101, March 1962] uses the criterion of error probability to compare several PCM modulation- demodulation schemes. His curves of error probability vs. signal-to-noise ratio for maximum likelihood detection of PCM-AM and discriminator detection of PCM-FM differ markedly from other published results. In both cases, the differences result from computing the error probability from an approximated Gaussian distribution at the detector output. Most Gaussian approximatious are valid in a region centered about the mean and are not valid for the tails of the distribution. Error probabilities are obtained by integrating over a region in the tail of the distribution. Small deviations in the tails of a distribution can result in large differences in error probability. Hence, the tails of the approximating distribution must closely approach the tails of the true distribution for a valid approximation. That this is not the case is illustrated by the divergence between Weaver's results and other published results based on the exact distribution."
"In a previous paper, this author developed an expression for the intermodulation distortion generated in single-sideband (SSB), amplitude modulation (AM) systems carrying frequency-division multiplex (FDM) telephony, due to AM/PM conversion. For the purpose of the theory, the SSB signal is replaced by an equivalent system consisting of a carrier simultaneously phase and amplitude modulated. To simplify the analysis, the AM/PM conversion factor was assumed constant over the significant range of variation of the envelope of the effective carrier. This is not, in fact, a very realistic assumption since the AM/PM factor varies quite, considerably with the input power level. Particularly in the case of a traveling wave tube working well below saturation, the dependence is likely to be linear It has subsequently been realized that the analysis is still quite tractable when the AM/PM factor is proportional to the input power level. In fact, on this assumption, it turns out that the expression given previously for the intermodulation distortion (expression (14) of Medhurst et al. [ibid., vol. CS-12, pp. 166-176, June 1964]) applies, if the AM/PM conversion factor is given its value at the rms level of the multichannel SSB signal. This is a useful result, since it appears that for acceptable distortion levels in TWT's used in satellite system ground stations, for example, it would be necessary to operate the tube in this linear region. The analysis is presented."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"Present day single-sideband (SSB) technology is based on synchronous demodulation, with implicit stringent stability requirements. This factor has deterred the use of SSB in some services in which it might be advantageous. There are two general ways to mitigate the stability problem: by transmitting a pilot carrier to synchronize a local oscillator, and by extracting the information signal from the envelope of the SSB signal. This paper deals with the second approach, i.e., SSB reception via envelope detection. It is shown both theoretically and experimentally that distortionless reception is possible if a carrier component of a certain minimal strength is present, and if special circuitry is provided to process the SSB envelope. An interesting and possibly useful system based on these premises is described."
"This paper presents two methods for increasing the traffic handling capability of a communication network with a minimum cost. Although we concentrate on traffic between one pair of stations (one commodity), the first formulation can be extended to the case ofkflows (orkcommodities). Both methods lead to a linear programming procedure, because linear cost increase is assumed."
"Programming a computer to interface with a variety of telegraph apparatus on the basis of bit serial transmission signaling codes provides a broad range of code flexibility and offers the possibility of achieving greater output rates than through conventional character-bit parallel-output. A specific application involving the interconnection of an IBM 1620 computer and Teletype Model 35 equipment requiring ASCII code is described."
"A technique for binary data transmission is described, in which each binary symbol is chosen to be a prescribed superposition ofnimpulses of form(sin 2\\piFt)/2\\piFt, spaced at intervals 1/2F. Such superposition leads to more than two received levels with binary input, but in return permits realization of the Nyquist rate (2F symbols/s in bandwidthF). Appropriate choice of the superposition coefficients provides a variety of spectral distributions to suit individual applications. The most interesting classes of system functions are defined, the associated coding procedures are described, and the performance characteristics are summarized."
"This paper describes a method of transmitter waveform generation which leads to an optimally \"narrow\" pulse at the receiver of a given linear time invariant digital communications channel. The resulting transmitter waveform is realizable in that it must be identically zero beforet=0. The instant at which the received pulse must have its peak may be specified. Two examples are given: the first is a purely analytic application to a first-order low-pass filter channel; the second demonstrates that the optimum transmitter waveform can be produced experimentally even when the phase characteristics of the channel are unknown and the channel amplitude response is known only empirically. It is seen that the transmitter waveform has the effect of equalizing both the channel amplitude response and the channel phase response. The basic method for phase equalization is recognized as time reversal, a presently practised method. Comparable theoretical works from the literature are discussed."
"Satellite communication systems are being proposed with ever-increasing frequency as integral components of many future commercial, military, and space programs. Thus, many people in all levels of engineering, management, government, and military occupations are being called upon to deliver judgments on this new mode of communications. However, there are sometimes difficulties in developing these judgments, because even gross design of satellite communication systems requires simultaneous manipulation of a half dozen or more parameters. This paper has been compiled as a computational aid for designers and reviewers of communication systems employing earth satellites as relays. Pertinent design equations are introduced and discussed briefly, with special emphasis placed on the limitations of the equations and the ranges of the parameters. Many of the computational aids, such as charts and nomographs, that are applicable to the gross design of satellite communication systems are presented. The utility of these computational aids is demonstrated in the solutions of some simple satellite communication system design and analysis problems. This paper is intended to be of practical usefulness; there is no suggestion that the theory of communications or satellites is probed in depth or detail."
"We announce, with both pride and trepidation, that with this issue this publications assummes a bimonthly status. Next, the appearance of a new category of communication, called a Concise Paper, in the last issue. We have found a real need for this type of item, which falls somewhere in between the formal Contribution, which has major significance to the development of the art, and the Correspondence item, which reports some smaller finding or correction to previously published material. Lastly, we have been receiving a few knocks (and, occasionally, kudos) for the recent technical content of these Tranactions. These have not been formal \"Letters to the Editor\" for publication, but sincere personal criticism of judgment in the selection of material that has been published. Each such communication has been taken up with the Technical Committee that reviewed the original material before publication and recommended its use. This discipline, while not always pleasant, will in the long run serve to strengthen our editorial policies and procedures."
"Viterbi (1964) has given ratios (SNRs) after demodulation in digital lower bounds on maximum signal-to-noise communication systems. He computes the SNRs according to Yates-Fish and Fitch, and Mayer (his references [7] and [8]), namely, the signal energy as the variance of the signal in the absence of channel noise; the noise energy as the variance of the difference between the signal actually demodulated (perturbed by noise) and the desired output (as received in the absence of noise). This communication is intended to give another possible definition of SNR, which has been previously used by Battail (1962 & 1964) and looks more realistic from a certain point of view. Pointing out and discussing the discrepancy of both definitions involves, in fact, basic problems, which are of interest for digital, and even analog, communication systems."
"The effect of channel errors on the output signal-to-noise ratio of a delta modulation system is theoretically investigated. Both a random error channel and a channel with burst errors are considered. The analytical results for the random error channel are shown to agree closely with experimental data."
"In this paper, an analysis is made of the performance of a communications system in which a reference tone is transmitted at a frequency adjacent to the phase keyed tone. The probability of error for a maximum likelihood receiver is obtained for anm-phase system of this type in the presence of additive Gaussian noise. The most advantageous division of power between the phase keyed tone and the reference tone is analyzed as a function of various system parameters. Error performance and optimum power division, when several keyed tones use a common reference tone, are also examined. The change in error performance due to differential phase delay between a data tone and the reference tone is computed. Finally, some results of an analysis of double character errors are reported."
"Present day service requirements dictate greater emphasis on reliability as a system design parameter and performance measure. In this paper reliability is defined and objectives are presented for a 10-hop 250-mile short-haul microwave radio relay system. A general discussion of the sources of unreliability (outage) precedes a section on possible techniques of minimizing their effects. This is followed by a detailed reliability analysis utilizing outage probability factors based on experience, field data, and judgment. A comparison is then made with reliability data on working systems. From these figures the conclusion follows that some form of diversity protection is a necessity if the proposed reliability objectives are to be met. In particular it appears that the use of a solidstate 6-Gc/s-11-Gc/s frequency diversity system with per hop switching will allow the economical attainment of the reliability objectives. In addition, this system will permit maximum utilization of both a congested portion of the frequency spectrum and a portion not otherwise usable in some areas because of rain attenuation."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"Two error detection techniques are examined with a view toward maximizing the average rate at which information can be transmitted reliably through a burst-error channel. It is assumed that the time required for transmission of a block of channel symbols varies linearly with the block length. For the three-parameter family of Gilbert burst-error channels, the block length that maximizes the information rate can be found from a single composite channel parameter, which may be interpreted as the error rate of an equivalent binary symmetric channel (BSC). For one of the error detection techniques, which uses a separately coded accept/reject (A/R) signal, the construction of and decision rule for an A/R code-word pair which includes a fail-safe feature are derived for the BSC. For the second type of system, in which an A/R bit is added to each information block, it is shown that interchannel correlation has little effect on system performance."
"The spectral shaping characteristics of Lender's duobinary transformation are examined and illustrated by several examples. It is found that the duobinary transformation does not compress bandwidth in a sense that would be directly applicable to the Sampling Theorem, but rather shapes the spectrum such that it becomes possible for samples sent at Nyquist rate through a nonflat filter to convey one bit of information each, even though they are statistically dependent and restricted to three levels. Thus the duobinary technique might be quite efficient for certain nonflat, band-limited channels which have a poor signal-to-noise ratio."
"A useful expression for FSK error probability with atmospheric noise interference, equal to one half the probability that the noise envelope exceeds the signal envelope, previously derived for a bandpass-filter discriminator FSK receiver applies as well to a matched-filter envelope-detection receiver. This error probability for Gaussian noise interference is equivalent to a more common expression defined in terms of signal energy and noise power density."
"This paper shows how a speech channel can be evaluated so that the characteristics of the talker-listener group, as well as associated electrical and acoustical subchannels, do not influence the final result. The characteristics of the talker and the listener are assumed to remain invariant with respect to time. Although perfect invariance is a mathematical idealization, the assumption of invariance is a good one if the talker is kept unaware of the listener's response and the channel's behavior, and if listener learning is minimized, for example, by the use of phonemes or nonsense syllables. Speech fidelity is defined by the transition matrix, which is the array of conditional probabilities of the output symbols when the input symbol is specified. The method presented demands the confusion matrix display of the results of a two-part articulation test performed by the talkerlistener group. The first part establishes the transition matrix of the generalized talker and of the generalized listener and is performed with the speech channel replaced by a perfect channel in which no errors, or confusions, can occur; the second part establishes the transition matrix of the speech channel and is performed upon the speech channel. The transition matrix of the speech channel is obtained by premultiplying the confusion matrix resulting from the second part of the test by the inverse of the talker's transition matrix, and then postmultiplying by the inverse of the listener's transition matrix. The data supporting the method have been sufficient to show that the transition matrix of the speech channel is insensitive to the division of error between the talker and the listener. Thus, the listener may be charged with all the error so that the transition matrix of the speech channel is given by the second confusion matrix postmultiplied by the inverse of the first confusion matrix."
"In a previous report [1], the authors discussed Digital Data Dynamic Transmission Systems which employed asynchronous time multiplexing and were able to achieve dynamic matching between various information sources and transmission lines. The earlier analyses were performed under the condition that the rate of information emission from each subscriber is equal to the rate of transmission of the transmission line. In this paper, the authors analyze a system where the rate of transmission of the transmission line is α times greater than the rate of information emission from each subscriber, and show the results of calculations of the ratio of transmission delay and the rate of channel busy time. They also analyze the system where the subscribers consist of groups with different priorities and arriving rates of calls. Though these results are derived with some approximations, it is possible to derive necessary data for designing actual data transmission systems."
"This paper treats the bandwidth properties and optimum demodulation of single-sideband FM. Bandwidth is defined as the second central moment of the power spectrum. With this definition, a comparison is given between FM and SSBFM signals for modulating sinusoids, and it is shown that a reduction in bandwidth can be obtained over FM with SSBFM. The a posteriori most probable demodulator for SSBFM is derived on the assumption of Gaussian modulating signals and is shown to combine some of the features of both optimum amplitude and angle demodulation."
"This paper describes the AFETR Real-Time Telemetry Data System and identifies the data transmission limitations from the various stations. The manner in which the system is implemented so as to select and merge data from multiple asynchronous sources and to obtain an efficient retransmission format is described. The features of the various operational data handling modes are discussed. Finally, the features of the initial system are tabulated, and areas where increased capability is possible simply by adding additional units are identified."
"This paper describes an approximate method for evaluating the blocking probability of a switching network. The model used is C. Y. Lee's probability linear graph. By changing the structure of the graph between a pair of adjacent stages in two ways, it is possible to obtain upper and lower bounds for the blocking probability. The calculation of the bounds is performed on graphs which have a simpler structure as a result of the changes made. A suitable form is then chosen for the approximate blocking probability within the bounds. Typical multistage networks are treated in this fashion, and the approximate results are compared with the accurate blocking probabilities. The method is simple and inexpensive and produces reasonably accurate results."
"This analysis expresses the maximum performance of a multichannel system, as represented by the maximum channel capacity for a specified noise level, in terms of all known significant design variables. Such factors as channel loading, propagation loss, multipath, cosmic noise, and feeder echo are included. More than 60 independent variables associated with system design are taken into account. It is believed that the results are unique, since this is the first known approach in which all significant noise components are brought into a single embracing expression. Maximum performance is found to be associated both with an optimum deviation and with an optimum carrier frequency. Contrary to previous opinion, the latter is found to increase with distance. The analysis indicates that bandwidths suitable for carrying TV signals are feasible, under suitable conditions. However, in order to develop general design procedures, which will achieve the maximum possible performance, considerably more knowledge is required concerning certain basic aspects of behavior, particularly with respect to medium aperture loss, multipath, feeder echo, and antenna beam-width."
"An active satellite is modeled as a repeater with a summer at its input and with a constant power output. The effectiveness of the following digital communication strategies for a constant bandwidth are compared in terms of Rcopmof the resulting channel: 1) \"time pulsing,\" 2) \"frequency division,\" and 3) \"CW signaling,'' where both transmitters simultaneously use the entire bandwidth while transmitting not necessarily synchronized or equal power signals, which are chosen from the sameM-ary alphabet and have identical duration. Rcompformulas are obtained, and parametric families of their curves are given. Among others, the following conclusions may be drawn: 1) For sufficiently high signal-to-noise ratios, CW signaling is best, the potential improvement increasing with increasing alphabet size. 2) Noncoincidence of time intervals of the two transmitters improves the performance of CW signaling."
"This paper describes a technique for calculating the multichannel loading of telephone carrier systems. The approach described is designed to exploit the modern computer more effectively while, at the same time, avoiding some of the weaknesses encountered in previous calculations, namely: (1) the dependence on a \"multichannel peak factor\" (MCPF), which is established experimentally by partially justified methods (2) the addition of a MCPF for a fixed number of channels to the multichannel equivalent-level distribution (1 percent point) to obtain the instantaneous multichannel peak value. Ideally, this MCPF should be allowed to vary simultaneously with the channel activity and other variables. A further advantage, in the approach submitted here, is that the results obtained contain additional information, derived from the fact that the multichannel load is given in terms of a distribution of peaks with specified probability values. This information is required when dealing with overload and near-linear distortion noise analysis, or in studies involving PCM companding laws. Briefly, the method used is to derive a probability distribution function which describes the amplitude characteristic of multichannel signals as functions of the number of channels in the system. Two basic sets of data are used: (1) the channel activity (2) the instantaneous amplitude probability distribution for an active channel. This information is used in conjunction with the Monte Carlo sampling technique to simulate the instantaneous amplitude from the multichannel signal. This simulation process, incorporated into a computer program, provides a means of generating samples and, by using a sufficient number of samples, a probability distribution is obtained to describe the multichannel loading."
"This paper describes an advanced microelectronic PCM multicoder. The objective of the system was to prove the feasibility of an all microelectronic multicoder. The problems solved include power dissipation, circuit design, circuit fabrication, and system packaging techniques. Monolithic integrated circuits designed especially for PCM are used throughout. Multicircuit packages are extensively employed. Other unique features include use of twosided multilayer boards and a three dimensional card-to-card interconnect scheme."
"The objective of the Molecularized FM Telemetry Program was to provide more reliable FM subcarrier oscillators that have reduced size, weight, and power consumption. Both conventional circuit functional electronic block oscillators and the more truly molecular drift field oscillator were considered. The molecular drift field oscillator was selected. The final design for the oscillators required only one power supply (+28V). In addition, the design approaches the goal of a single design for all of the oscillators in that a standardized design for the input amplifier, feedback amplifier, output amplifier, and regulator was achieved using only one type of general purpose epitaxial monolith. Using this design, five subcarrier oscillators operating over IRIG band 11,A, C, E, andH\\ast(7kc/s to 165kc/s) were successfully built and tested. The feasibility of operation over -20°C to +80°C was shown. In addition, the five oscillators were operated together driving a linear mixer with no intermodulation effects. These molecular oscillators have a volume that is one-ninth, weight that is one-fourteenth, and power dissipation that is one-half to one-third that of conventional transistorized FM oscillators."
"With discrete signals represented as points in anNdimensional space, it is shown that the maximum signal energy is minimized if the origin of the coordinate system is chosen as the center of the smallest hypersphere enclosing all signal points."
"After a very brief resume of conventional pulse code modulation (PCM) features, this paper describes the operating principles of a variable length words - pulse code modulation system (VLWPCM). This new concept is a combination of TASI and conventional PCM. Time assignment speech interpolation or TASI is used on the very long routes, such as transoceanic cables, to improve the yield of the circuits at the cost of a very sophisticated terminal. The combination with PCM allows us to simplify the terminals in such a way that it can yield a lower cost. A coder and a decoder are described."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Outlined in this paper are some of the more important requirements imposed on coaxial cable designed for community antenna television, popularly termed CATV. Examples of techniques for deriving best economic designs are discussed, and an example illustrating one such analysis is presented. Several designs, intended to meet such requirements, are reviewed."
"An experimental multilevel narrow-band digital FM modem is described. The design is based on theoretical principles predicting better performance than that formerly thought to be typical. Various waveforms and eye patterns are shown under conditions of delay and slope distortion. Measured error rates vs. signal-to-noise ratio for additive Gaussian noise, with and without channel impairments, are presented for binary, duobinary, and quaternary systems. The experimental results agree closely with theory, and it is demonstrated that the theoretical performance can be approached closely by a physical model which retains the promised simplicity of FM instrumentation."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"Schilling et al. [l965] proposed a method of predicting error rates in FSK using the phase-locked loop (PLL) as a demodulator. They assumed a picture of error generation in which the errors are preponderantly due to the threshold impulses. The ont,put of the PLL is passed through a low-pass filter and then sampled at the center of the bit to determine the presence of a mark or a space. This communication shows that under the same assumed conditions the integrator-dump circuit is preferable over the simple lowpass filter. In the integrator-dump system the output of the FM demodulator is integrated over the bit period, a decision is made at the end of the bitp eriod, and the integrator contents ared umped to prepare for the next integration period."
"Mathematical methods are presented for obtaining the locus of points representing the intersection of the figure of the earth and the plane defined by the central ray of a signal scattered between two sites. Algebraic expressions of the latitude-longitude pairs which represent the locus are presented for the case where the figure of the earth is a sphere. An outline of the method for determining latitude-longitude pairs is included for the case where the figure of the earth is an oblate spheroid."
"The Automatic Voice Announcement System was designed for hotels, motels, mountain lodges, and resorts in remote locations. Many of these establishments are located in areas some distance from the operator location. Although telephone service is available, guests in most cases have had to place their long distance calls through the hotel or motel PBX attendant. This has been a burden on their staff as well as an inconvenience and waste of time to the guests. This new system allows a guest in remote areas to make long distance calls by dialing a single digit to reach the distant operator."
"Theoretical methods are developed for predicting the transmission loss over a tropospheric scatter path from a point on the earth to a satellite. The results indicate that presently available equipment allows reliable communication to only slightly beyond the radio horizon. Some of the difficulties encountered in designing experiments to test the theoretical predictions are investigated."
"This paper describes a 24-channel pulse code modulation (PCM) cable carrier system designed for interexchange applications. The system is compatible with Western Electric T1 carrier. All digital functions are accomplished with only two types of integrated circuit elements, a dual 2-input gate and a JK flip-flop. Simple unbalanced transistor channel gates are used for speech sampling at the transmitting end and sample distribution at the receiving end. The single instantaneous compander uses temperature-controlled diodes. A resampling circuit eliminates the need for dual compressors and encoders at the transmitting end and also provides automatic centering of the compressor characteristic."
"The low-noise traveling-wave amplifier is a selfcontained microwave amplifier, consisting of a traveling-wave tube, coupler assembly, focusing structure, and power supply. The principal types are permanent-magnet-focused, single-reversal magnet, and periodic permanent magnet, with respective weights of approximately 15, 10, and 5 pounds. Noise figures ranging from 3 to 10 dB are typical, with values as low as 1 dB reported. Saturation power levels vary from less than 1 mW to 50 mW or higher, and a noise figure as low as 3.5 dB in a 10-watt tube was recently reported. Gain is typically 25 dB minimum over a full octave, and can be as high as 50 dB. Gain tracking to within 1 dB is feasible, as is phase tracking to within 5 degrees. A graphical method is presented, enabling prediction of odd-order intermodulation product levels resulting from balanced 2-tone input. Curves are given to enable rapid computation of dynamic range, which is typically between 75 and 90 dB. Double-octave operation has been demonstrated, with a noise figure in the 6-to-7-dB range. Nearly all types are designed to withstand MIL-E-5400 environmental specifications. Life tests have resulted in continuous operation for more than 20 000 hours with essentially no degradation in noise figure. Future developments will result in reduced noise figure, higher output power and dynamic range, multi-octave bandwidths, and still further reductions in size and weight."
"A discrete-time signal estimation problem in which the input signal is represented by an expansion in terms of linearly independent functions is considered. After a set ofrnoisy measurements of the signal are made, a linear estimator of the function and/or its derivatives at some point in time, τ, is required. Due to systems or physical considerations or some other a priori conditions, magnitude constraints or statistics associated with the input signal are known. The performance criteria considered in the solution to this problem include minimum mean square error, least squares, and minimization of the maximum mean square error. A unified approach to these problems is taken so that the relationship between the various performance criteria and their resultant accuracies is easily compared."
"The design of a communications system consisting of a sequential encoder-decoder, working in conjunction with a modulation-detection system is considered from the point of view of high-information transmission efficiency. Emphasis is placed onMorthogonal signal modulation and a scheme known as list-of-lquantization. The results of a computer study of the computational behavior of the sequential decoder are described and used to predict buffer memory overflow probability. The described design procedure allows prediction of system performance to within a fraction of a decibel. A practical sequential decoder and a list-of-lmodulation-detection system of reasonable complexity, can achieve performance on a white Gaussian channel to within 4.5 dB of the Shannon limit with coherent reception and to within 7 dB with incoherent reception."
"The control of electromagnetic-plasma interaction may be accomplished through the judicious control of signal frequency, plasma frequency, and collision frequency. Collision frequency control, effected by charged particle seeding, is being investigated as a possible technique to alleviate signal degradation. Since collision frequency is proportional to charge squared, highly charged micron-size particles are very effective."
"The Pentex System is designed for telephone exchanges in the range of 200 to 2000 lines. It uses reed-relay crosspoints in a 3-stage switching network; control operations are performed by semiconductor circuits and reed relays. The circuits are mounted on a new system of plug-in units. Easy growth in small increments, simple maintenance, low power consumption with standard exchange battery supplies, faulttolerance, and the ability to incorporate new features and services are main objectives achieved by the design."
"This paper describes a small electronic telephone exchange which employs small limited-availability configurations of reed-relay switches. A novel feature of the system is the straight wiring between the various switches, in contrast with the more usual slipped wiring between the full-availability switches of a more conventional system. The common equipment of the exchange (markers, registers, etc.) uses semiconductor and reed-relay circuits, is faster in operation than conventional electromechanical systems, and thus permits a higher traffic load per marker. One version of the equipment described has been giving public service for 200 subscribers in Leamington Spa, Warwickshire, England, since April 1965. Excellent service has been given with very few component failures and no interruption of service."
"In an electronic telephone exchange designed for public service in the United Kingdom network, speech and other signals are transmitted as pulse amplitude modulated pulses over unidirectional highways carrying 8210-kc/s pulse channels. Line and interhighway switches are controlled by magnetostriction delay line stores; delay lines also store supervisory and register information and an inductive store is used for semipermanent line information. Connections are set up by triplicated common equipment using stored program control techniques. Comprehensive error checks are provided, together with alternative paths through the exchange."
"The purpose of this paper is to stimulate interest in captured limiters through examination of a common conjecture concerning the output power division of a hard-limiting satellite repeater when the repeater input, consisting of constant-envelope signals (with unrestricted spectral occupancy), is dominated (captured) by one strong signal. The other input signals (taken to be mutually independent) are sufficiently numerous and sufficiently small to allow the following conditions to exist: 1) Their sum can be approximated as a Gaussiano ise process with power in the repeater bandwidth equal to the sum of the individual (weak) signal powers. 2) The summed power at the repeater input of the weak signals is small compared to the strong signal."
"In the sectionalized electronic switching system under consideration, serial combinations of connections established through a general purpose switching network are used to associate any required combination of peripheral equipments with a call. The implementation of this process, known as serial trunking, is described with emphasis on the functions of registers which act as an interface between the switching network and the common control. The combination of serial trunking stored program control and sectionalization provides security and flexibility for the incorporation of new facilities."
"The sectionalized system under consideration employs overall route choice techniques, in which the identity of lines to be connected is indicated in coded form, and free paths are selected in common equipment. Flexibility, high operating speed, and good security against faults are prime requirements of the common equipment in large exchanges. Initially, duplicated controls, based on capacitor stores and wired logic, are provided with automatic change-over, in the event of a failure. Current development is based on sectionalized controls, in which any of a number of stored program control units can set up each call."
"This paper provides a comparison of the transmission of information in analog form by frequency modulation (FM) and in digital form by phase shift keying (PSK). The two systems are compared on the basis of relative accuracy provided, relative power and bandwidth required, and relative equipment complexity involved, with the emphasis being on spacecraft application. Although the two systems require about the same transmitter power (within 1 dB) to provide rms output signal-to-noise (S/N) ratios between 20 and 30 dB at threshold, the analog system is generally simpler, whereas the digital system is capable of greater accuracy. However, the digital system is more efficient for extremely high S/N ratios. The transmission bandwidth required by the FM system is less than that for the pulse code modulation (PCM) system for moderate S/N ratios. For S/N ratios above 35 dB, however, the PCM system requires less bandwidth, as well as less power, than the FM system. Although the analog-FM technique is usually the most straightforward approach, the information may be transmitted in digital form in order to take advantage of one or more of the following factors: 1) transmitter power savings over conventional analog-FM transmission for high S/N ratios 2) ability to regenerate the digital signal 3) solidity with which the information is known when digitized 4) ease of handling YES-NO or ON-OFF signals 5) ease of multiplexing digital signals 6) ability to encrypt the digital signal 7) practicality of processing and sending information at extremely slow rates, as from deep space probes, when in digital form."
"Although the exact formulation for the optimum quantization of random signals is known, the determination of the optimum uniform or nonuniform quantizer can only be done currently by cumbersome computer techniques. In this paper approximate methods are presented which, for a given number of quantization levels, reduce the determination of the optimum quantizer to a one-dimensional problem. Expressions for the resulting distortion are obtained which allow a simple discussion of the merits of nonuniform quantization."
"Switching devices for electronic telephone exchange applications must meet a number of stringent requirements, particularly if used as speech-path crosspoints in space-division system. For a long-term research program, two classes of crosspoint have been considered: those in which the control electrodes have the same return path as the speech-path electrodes, and those in which the control and switching circuits are totally isolated from each other. A research program on new devices in the latter category is in hand, and devices having useful characteristics have been made and evaluated in a private electronic exchange."
"The United Kingdom telephone network comprises some 9 million telephones and 6500 exchanges, and is expanding rapidly. During the next fifteen years, a threefold expansion is forecast, which must be achieved without proportionate increases in the labor force required to make, install, and maintain the equipment, or in the amount of accommodation required. It is therefore imperative to choose a system providing compatibility with existing equipment, low maintenance costs, automatic production techniques, and small space requirements. Fast switching and the ability to offer new facilities are additional requirements. The British Post Office has decided that for many years electronically controlled reed-relay systems offer the best prospects of meeting the requirements."
"Electronic telephone switching developments in the United Kingdom have included comprehensive studies and trials of both Space and Time Division Systems by the Joint Electronic Research Committee. The time-division-multiplex development program led to the conclusion, in 1963, that pulse amplitude modulation systems would not be economic, for some years at least, and would pose complex transmission and maintenance problems. The space division development program led to the conclusion that reed-relay systems would offer all the advantages looked for in electronic switching systems. Two 200-line units are already giving good public service, and a 3000-line unit is being installed. Further orders have been placed, and the British Post Office is planning a steady build-up of orders over the next few years."
"The problem of binary synchronous communication in additive non-Gaussian noise is considered. It is shown that, for a class of additive noises, an optimal detector consists of a two-input nonlinear device followed by an integrator and decision box. This system suppresses large excursions from the signal level in an optimal manner before integration of the received signal, so that the effects of large amplitude noise waveforms on the signal decision are minimized. Asymptotic performance characteristics are obtained indicating the relationships between the basic system parameters, signaling waveforms, signal energy, system bandwidth, decision time, noise dispersion, and error probability. Explicit expressions and curves for system performance in large variance (Cauchy distributed) noise are given for various basic signaling waveforms."
"An algorithm, based on Monte Carlo techniques, is presented for the design and analysis of a crystal controlled oscillator. A digital computer simulates the oscillator as its circuit components change in accordance with their probability distributions. Selection of the final oscillator design is based on the probability of circuit failure as calculated by the computer. This method should yield improved frequency stability and reduced cost compared with results obtained from conventional design methods."
"The REX system development and all of its main features are described. The speech path is divided into sections which serve all subscribers, and call packing balances congestion between these. Slipping of connections is arranged both within and between these sections, without complication of the call setting data. Dual combined links provide a mix between junction and local traffic to standardize the switching and to simplify the control problem. All ancillary couplings for registers, senders, ringers, etc., are made in series through the speech path network employing the same control while a separate final speech path enables call checking."
"The system under discussion is a 4-wire pulse amplitude modulation system in which each subscriber is permanently allocated to one of 30 time-separated 10-kc/s pulse channels. Groups of 30 subscribers are connected to multiplex highways constituting inlets to an interhighway switch. The electronic crosspoints are operated at channel times by ferrite stores; ferrite stores also control supervisory and register functions, and a wires store is used for semipermanent line information. Marking wires, which parallel the speed highways, are used to select free paths through the network."
"The Early Bird communications satellite is a commercial venture owned by a consortium of 52 countries. The system uses one spin stabilized synchronous satellite and five earth stations to provide a full-time microwave link between North America and Europe for 240 telephone circuits or for television. The 85-pound spacecraft was launched from Cape Kennedy on April 6, 1965, by NASA, using Thrust Augmented Delta Number 30. The launch sequence and subsequent maneuvers resulted in a circular synchronous orbit requiring no correction for seven months. The operational experience gained with this experimental/operational system has demonstrated satisfactory spacecraft performance characteristics and proven that synchronous communication satellites provide high quality links for telephone service."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Potentialities and limitations are derived for a random access, discrete address (RADA) communication system in which addresses consist of time-frequency coded pulses and in which a higher order alphabet is realized by assigning many different addresses per person. The performance of such a multiple address RADA system is derived as a function of two parameters: the channel utilization and the size of the time-frequency matrix. The channel utilization is the ratio of the total information rate to the channel bandwidth. The size of the time-frequency matrix, in which addresses are formed, is a measure of the receiver complexity. If there is no limitation on matrix size, arbitrarily low probabilities of error can be obtained for any value of channel utilization below 70 percent by increasing the number of addresses per person. If both matrix size and channel utilization are fixed, a minimum error probability is achieved with an optimum number of addresses per person. The performance of a multiple address RADA system is shown to be generally superior to that of a single address ON-OFF RADA system."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"Concepts of random neural nets, as treated in mathematical biophysics, are used to describe the random behavior of communication nets. Application of the steady-state as well as message spread threshold concepts to communication nets are considered. The steady state here implies a systematic and regular spread of the message while the spread threshold, referred to as the \"ignition\" threshold in neural nets, determines the required threshold minimum number of links ensuring, eventually, a steady-state activity, namely, a regular spread of the message throughout the net. The derived formulas offer useful computational tools in the treatment of strategic nondirectory nets in random behavior. Section II discusses the use of the spread of contagion theory and Section III deals with the random behavior of mobile communication nets, with directional and nondirectional antennas."
"The performance of a plurality-count diversity combiner for fadingM-ary transmissions is analyzed, and calculated error probabilities are presented graphically for alphabet sizes of 2, 8, and 32. The performance is shown to be within 3 dB of that of an optimum square-law combiner for moderate alphabet sizes when there is no restriction on the allowable number of diversity branches. It is shown that a worthwhile saving in transmitted power can be effected by using nonbinary alphabets with plurality-count combining for the transmission of binary data. The availability of extra information from the combiner for use with error-correction is discussed."
"A study was performed to measure variations in the polarization characteristics of an HF signal received over a short range ionospheric path. This paper describes a limited number of experiments using signals from Station WWV to determine the statistical nature of the polarization ellipse at the receiving site, Hathaway Hill, near Rochester, N. Y. The approach employed was to regard the elliptically polarized wave as the resultant of two linearly polarized waves of the same frequency and to measure the amplitude and phase of these two components by employing orthogonally oriented receiving dipoles and associated devices to provide continuous recordings of the variables. Three types of data were recorded during a one week field test period, and samples of each type were reduced and analyzed. The data compiled showed that the received signal exhibits Rayleigh fading characteristics with a mean fading rate of approximately 0.15 fades per second. The envelopes of the received components exhibit a high correlation in the morning hours, considerably less correlation in the afternoon, and a high correlation in the evening characterized by a substantial offset in time between the fading of the two components which is often periodic. The envelope of the cross correlation function indicates that the conditions causing the disturbance are changing slowly on a minute-to-minute basis, although complete polarization rotation appears to take about 5 to 10 seconds and is characterized by both phase and amplitude changes of the component waves. It appears that the milder perturbations of relative phase are confined within limits of approximately\\pm90\\deg, and severe perturbations are characterized by a rapid monotonic change in the relative phase of the components of 2π."
"A laboratory multipath simulator was developed to provide a controlled environment for the study of the nature of long delay multipath propagation interference effects on low-channel capacity FM systems, and for the evaluation of design changes on an existing system to improve its tolerance to a multipath environment. The associated laboratory program provided a valuable collection of information both in terms of multipath effects and in providing the field engineering force with a tool to confirm their findings."
"This paper is an extension of earlier analysis work relating to a new method of achieving frequency division multiplexing, capable of being effectively integrated with time division switching. The band shifting inherent in frequency division multiplexing and demultiplexing is achieved by placing a sampling gate between a baseband and a sideband filter. When this technique is combined with time division switching, the transmission path also includes the cases of transmission via a switch between sideband filters, that may or may not cover the same sideband region, and between baseband filters. Resonant transfer is incorporated for all cases. Only the case of resonant transfer between baseband filters has been considered in the past. In general, the basic transmission path under analysis is the one between sideband filters, where the term sideband is used in the sense to include baseband. This is logical, since the baseband may be considered to be an upper sideband around zero frequency. Such a basic transmission path is rigorously analyzed on the basis of certain ideal assumptions. The purpose is to provide further insight into the fundamental operation of this new modulation-demodulatian scheme."
"The response of an automatic gain control (AGC) amplifier to two narrow-band input signals is analyzed with respect to weak signal suppression and cross-product generation. A linear control characteristic is assumed. Results are obtained for a wide range of relative input-signal levels and frequency spacings. It is shown that the weak signal suppression and cross-product generation decrease, with increasing frequency separation, relative to the closed-loop AGC bandwidth. With the proper choice of AGC time constant and frequency spacing, it is possible to control the total power level of several signals without undesirable interaction among the signals. For certain asymptotic results, it is shown that the AGC performance coincides with that of a hard-limiter."
"This paper is concerned with the optimal design of one-way and two-way communication systems which are of greatest interest in space applications. A two-way communication system is defined to be one composed of two radio links or channels, viz., an up-link channel and a down-link channel. The down-link RF carrier is derived from the carrier tracking loop located in the uplink receiver. Transmission of information which does not make use of the carrier derived in the up-link receiver is referred to as oneway communications. In particular, a design technique is presented in the form of a universal set of design curves which enable the communications engineer to make a \"best\" choice of parameters when faced with a given set of design constraints. This means that, given a certain desired error probability, a total transmitter power limitation, data rate, and carrier tracking loop bandwidth, the modulation index, i.e., the square root of the ratio of the power in the carrier to the total transmitted power, may be chosen so as to minimize the probability of error. As an alternate technique, and one which is not as difficult to carry out, the design may be predicted on the basis of selecting that value of modulation index which maximizes the signal-to-noise ratio at the output of the data demodulator. Design curves are given which allow one to employ this alternate criterion. Further, these results should prove useful when attempting to check experimentally a design based upon the criterion of minimum error probability."
"The distortion of FM (frequency-modulated) signals after being processed through time-invariant channels with nonlinear phase characteristic and/or fluctuating amplitude function is considered, starting from a Fourier spectral analysis of the signal. Expressions for calculating the distortion power or harmonic amplitudes, applicable to both single-tone and multitone message signals, are derived in terms of coefficients in the power series representation of channel phase characteristics. The quasi-stationary method is shown to be correct only in the leading term in each order of the distortion voltage. The missing terms can cause substantial errors in certain instances. Fluctuation in the channel amplitude function vs. frequency also causes change in the phase of the signal; the distortion generated is, however, one order of magnitude lower. Using a Butterworth-type bandpass filter as a particular example, the third and fifth harmonic amplitudes in the discriminator output are hand-calculated and plotted as a function of the modulation index. Results agree quite well with recent data from digital machine computations by Schenck and Kennedy. The spectral technique is also used to compute the channel bandwidth requirement, based on distortion considerations, and a family of curves is plotted from results of numerical computations on a digital computer."
"The author of the paper \"Error Probabilities Due to Atmospheric Noise and Flat Fading in HF Ionospheric Communications,\" which appeared on pp. 266-279 of the September, 1965, issue of these Transactions, reports corrections to Equation (123)."
"The critical need for simple high-gain, low-noise microwave amplifiers and frequency converters, required for space communication and improved ground communication systems, appears to be met by the solid-state tunnel diode and varactor devices. The incorporation of these low-noise negative resistance devices results in significant improvement in the performance of communication systems where sensitivity is of importance. Past attention has been concentrated mainly on negative resistance devices using a single tunnel diode or varactor. This paper will present some results on devices using a multiple number of tunnel diodes or varactors. The behavior of devices using an arbitrary number of diodes in either a nonreciprocal or reciprocal environment is studied and compared with the single-diode configurations. For an amplifier usingntunnel diodes with parameters (- R_{1}, C_{1}), (-R_{2}, C_{2}), ...,(- R_{n}, C_{n}), the optimum gain-bandwidth limitation for a nonreciprocal configuration is given by(G_{T})_{n}\\leq \\exp [\\sum \\min{r=1} \\max {n} \\frac{2\\pi}{\\omega_{c}R_{r}C_{r}]where(G_{T})_{n}is the fiat transducer power gain and ωcis the bandwidth in rad/s for the amplifier usingntunnel diodes. This optimum gain-bandwidth limit can be realized by cascadingnstages of the optimum nonreciprocal single-diode amplifiers. For the reciprocal realization of the tunnel diode amplifiers, it can be shown that irrespective of the number of tunnel diodes employed, the optimum nonreciprocal matching can never yield more than 6 dB over the optimum reciprocal equalization. Thus, the fiat gain for the reciprocal case is given by(G_{T})_{n} \\leq \\frac{1}{4}[1+ exp (\\sum \\min{r=1} \\max{n} \\frac{\\pi}{\\omega_{c}R_{r}C_{r})]^{2}. Fornvaractors with parameters CorandC{1r}, r= 1,2, ...,n, the optimum nonreciprocal parametric amplifier must satisfy the following limitation(G_{T})n \\leq \\cosh^{2} [\\frac{\\pi}{\\sqrt{\\omega_{so}w_{io}}{\\omega_{c}}(\\sum \\min{r=1} \\max{n} \\frac {C_{1r}}{C_{or}})]where\\omega_{s0}and\\omega_{i0}denote the signal and idler band-center frequencies respectively. This result is a generalization of the gainbandwidth limitation for single-varactor parametric amplifiers published recently by the author [1]. Besides the results on gain-bandwidth limitations, the stability of the negative-resistance devices using an arbitrary number of tunnel diodes or varactors is also studied. Since both the tunnel diode and the varactor are two-terminal active elements, they must be capable of operating in a stable manner under at least one passive termination. Although a complete stability theory for tunnel diode and varactor devices is not as yet available, some useful sufficient conditions are derived in the paper for the stability of these negative resistance devices. Results presented in the paper on the important gain-bandwidth limitations and stability conditions are useful in the design and synthesis of stable, broadband, low noise tunnel diode and varactor parametric amplifiers incorporating a multiple number of diodes. Among the many possible applications for this theory, one can cite the phased-array systems and the pseudo-passive satellite techniques. In the latter application, a large number of tunnel diode amplifier units are integrated in an antenna structure to enhance the scattering cross-section of a moderate-size structure."
"Experimental equipment has been developed which adapts the Rake concept to tropospheric scatter. This equipment enables experimental tests of multipath diversity effectiveness for communications. Its delay-resolution capabilities and circuit stability also allow effective use of the equipment for novel propagation research. The underlying concepts and equipment design are described, along with initial propagation test results."
"This paper derives a general expression for error probabilities in binary transmission of signals over selectively fading diversity channels, containing specular and scatter type components. Post detection diversity combining is employed at the receiver, and a general form of detector that includes the usual coherent and incoherent detectors is assumed as a special case. Recent results of other authors are cited as special cases."
"Berger and Mandelbrot in 1963 proposed a particular renewal process as a model for the occurrence of errors in data transmitted over telephone circuits. Besides the assumed independence between the successive intervals between errors, they assume that the intervals have a Pareto distribution. Their graphical analyses of large amounts of data indicated departures from the model which Mandelbrot proposed in 1964 to account for in an extended model. Some simple formal statistical procedures are given for analyzing this sort of data, procedures that are not affected by the possibility that the population mean-interval-between-errors is infinite. The departures from independence of intervals noted by Berger and Mandelbrot are formally verified from the analysis of data from a single data transmission test. A separate analysis of another set of data is also made and the results are compared to see what features of the error patterns are general, and what features are particular to different transmission conditions. In both sets of data analyzed, the outstanding feature detected is the strong positive correlation between successive long intervals between errors. Evidence is also found which indicates that the upper tail of the marginal distribution of intervals between errors does not follow a hyperbolic law."
"Consideration is given to a phase-locked loop configuration which provides a linear control characteristic over a range of 2π radians. Loop configurations employing pulse-amplitude-modulation (PAM) and pulse-duration-modulation (PDM) sawtooth phase comparators are outlined. The performance of the loop in a noise-free environment is determined for the case where the loop filter is of the perfect proportional-plus-integral control type. Expressions for the normalized pull-in time are obtained, and the results are compared with those available for the conventional loop employing a sinusoidal comparator. The limitations of this technique, as well as loop performance in a noisy environment, are also discussed"
"This paper gives analytical derivations and graphical illustrations of the association factor, the stationary proportion of ONE'S, the symbol entropy, and the autocomparison function, as functions of the transition probabilities, for the 2-state first-order Markov chain. These properties of the chain have been found useful in the solution of certain practical problems in the field of information transmission."
"A method is presented for simplifying the calculation of transient response of narrow-band networks to narrow-band signals. Laplace transforms are used, but employ only positive frequencies, simplified by approximations justified by the narrowband properties of the networks and signals. The method is applied in calculating the transient response of 1- and 2-pole band-pass filters to a step change of frequency of a signal whose amplitude is constant. Curves are included, showing the instantaneous amplitude, phase, and frequency of the filter outputs."
"The author of the correspondence item \"On Signal-to-Noise Ratios in Communication Systems,\" which appeared on pp, 71-72 of the February, 1966, issue of these Transactions, reports corrections to equations (3) and (4)."
"An outstanding characteristic of impulse noise on telecommunication channels is its high variability. A scientifically designed sampling plan was incorporated to conduct a survey of this type of noise on major Bell System carrier facilities. The results show mean impulse noise levels to range from 51 to 66 dBrn, and standard deviation of the nearly normal cumulative distribution functions of the levels to vary from 3.5 to 7.7 dB. Slopes of the peak noise amplitude distribution were found to range from 1.0 to 33.0 dB per decade with 90 percent of them falling in the range of 2.0 to 10.0 dB per decade. The variability of the noise parameters within single carrier groups or common routes was found, on the average, to be considerably smaller than exhibited by the entire system."
"This note reports a telegraphy test in which a Rate 1/2 error-correcting coding system was operated on two channels of an HF modem while an in-band diversity system transmitted the same information on two other channels. Error rates of coding and diversity operation are given, showing that coding was greatly superior to diversity when each used the same bandwidth."
"A coefficient system has been devised which makes use of transmission objectives and amplifier performance to provide a new method of optimizing CATV system design. Maximum system length, in number of tandem amplifiers, is given for a reference amplifier. This number is called the system coefficient. Each other amplifier, either line or distribution, is assigned an amplifier coefficient which shows the number of reference amplifiers to which it is equivalent. For all amplifiers in tandem, the sum of the amplifier coefficients must be less than or equal to the system coefficient. This allows different kinds of amplifiers to be mixed in the same system and systems of different numbers of channels or bandwidth to be mixed to form a larger system. In addition, a line amplifier figure of merit can be derived which is independent of transmission requirements."
"A radio communication system, primarily suited for military application, is described, general design objectives are outlined, and some features, such as rapid standby switching arrangement, are discussed in detail."
"A new general-purpose, pulse-multiplier technique, which uses cascaded monostable multivibrators to provide successive doubling of low-order pulse rates to a much higher frequency, is described. One important application of the pulse multiplier enables positive self-phasing for low cyclic rotational synchronization. It promises significant benefits in the multichannel, facsimile, and picture transmission fields. An operational breadboard model of a system as described gave a measured performance of ±0.5 degree phase angle deviation (transmitter to receiver)."
"Interference measurements on a 6-Gc/s microwave receiver at RF frequencies for 600- and 960-channel loading are described. The receiver used a 70-Mc/s IF amplifier with a 25Mc/s bandwidth. The mechanism for creating interference at RF frequencies is presented and is verified by many figures that relate the interfering signal level at several baseband frequencies to the magnitude and relative frequency of the interfering carrier. The measurement technique, which is fully described, used a swept backward wave oscillator (BWO) as the interfering carrier, and a recorder tracked the BWO frequency and provided a continuous plot of interfering signal level from the output of a noise-loading test set receiver for combinations of noise modulation on both carriers. Use of the data is described, and a generalized chart is given for a constant -78 dBmO interfering signal level, with and without preselection for variations of interfering carrier magnitude and frequency under different modulation conditions."
"The problem of phase concellation of two sinusoidal signals in the presence of Gaussian noise is considered for two types of decision schemes: comparison and threshold decision. The receiver is made up of several channels, each consisting of a narrow-band filter, envelope detecter, and decision circuit. In the case of comparison decision, the cancellation probability as a function of signal-to-noise ratio is derived for a two-channel receiver and then extended tomchannels. The results derived are exact. In the case of threshold decision, the cancellation probability as a function of signal-to-noise ratio and threshold level is derived for the equal signal level case, then extended to the near-equal signal level case. The results obtained are approximate with an accuracy of better than 1 percent for signal-to-noise ratios greater than about 3 dB. In addition, exact results are derived for the noisefree case."
"Much of the effort in the field of signal detection during the past few years has been directed toward the determination of the presence or absence of a given signal, or toward the discrimination between known signals in the presence of additive noise of known statistical form. Due to the long-term nonstationary properties exhibited by many channels it is desirable to design detectors which are independent of the noise distribution in the channel, i.e., nonparametric detectors, or which are capable of adjusting themselves to changing noise situations, adaptive detectors. This paper will present and analyze a particular adaptive detector based on the philosophy of statistical ranking for threshold determination. The detector is designed to discriminate between theMlevels of anM-ary code. The decision levels are based only upon a knowledge of the a priori probability of occurrence of the various levels. The noise is assumed to be continuous with zero mean and independent of the signal, but no other assumption is made. Threshold determination is based on blocks of signals, received levels, of lengthN. The system is analyzed for several noise conditions using error probabilities and Delay Asymptotic Relative Efficiency (DARE) relative to the Gaussian optimum detector as criteria. The detector is shown to operate well on a jamming model using Cauchy noise. Finally, block sizes necessary for adequate ranking procedures for threshold settings are determined."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Coherent echo modulation and detection (CEMAD) is a broadband modulation and detection scheme for the transmission of binary data. In CEMAD each data bit is transmitted and then enters a signal selection process to be retransmitted or echoed for a period of time with the echoing used to advantage in a multidecision process. The scheme can provide 1) transmitter power savings, compared to, e.g., coherent PSK, 2) in effect, both time and frequency diversity reception, and 3) secure communication. It appears to also have a good signal acquisition capability. The scheme is described, and both analytical and simulation results are presented."
"The probability that an ideal coherent receiver errs in receiving a noisyN-ary, orthogonal transmission throughMindependent slow Rician fading channels is derived. The receiver to be analyzed coalesces coherent and noncoherent reception. A more easily implemented, linearized version of the same receiver is presented, and the performance of both are compared with a previouslyanalyzed noncoherent detector. For small random channel components, the linearized receiver performs almost identically with the optimum receiver. Neglecting the information contained in the random component shows up as an additional noise component in the output and there exists an irreducible error probability, even in the absence of the additive disturbance, which depends on the ratio of the energy received via the specular channel components to the mean squared value of the scatter components. Thus, the importance of using the information conveyed via the channel scatter components is clearly manifested."
"The threshold noise performance of a limiter-discriminator, with input signal uniformly distributed over the full scale frequency deviation range, is analyzed in terms of an evaluation criterion which specifies the system resolution(\\pm R)and the probability (P) with which output noise exceeds that resolution. This criterion, meaningful above and below threshold, forms a basis for a precise definition of threshold, the location of which is determined equally precisely and found to lie between 6 dB and 10 dB input signal-to-noise ratio (SNR) for the range of (R, P) values considered. The channel efficiency of FM relative to Shannon's law is also determined approximately in light of this criterion, from which the ultimate FM threshold follows."
"In a previous paper, a method was presented for estimating the storage requirements for a message switching computer. The associated conditions for its application were quite stringent and included the following: the computer contains a large number of sending lines; the message sizes are exponentially distributed; the lines are unidirectional. This paper generalizes that method so as to develop approaches for a multitude of storage estimation problems. At the outset, the generalized method permits each of the aforementioned conditions to be dropped. Then it is used to deal with the problem of estimating the number of table entries required for message storage. Finally, it is applied to the situation wherein storage is decomposed into short- and long-range areas. This breadth of application is made possible by the nature of real-time storage problems, which permits estimates to be somewhat inaccurate. In fact, these problems necessitate that generalized methods-rather than specialized formulas-be developed if analysis is to be performed in a practical manner."
"This paper describes a model distribution for the phase error in the second-order phase-locked loop (PLL) of greatest practical interest. Experimental results relative to the distribution of the phase error and its properties are given. The experimental measurements are used to complement the analytical model in a signal-to-noise region where the linear PLL theory does not apply. Compared to the actual measurements of the second-order loop performance, it is shown that the model distribution provides excellent agreement over the useful range of most phase-locked receivers."
"The design and development of a 98-channel microelectronic pulse code modulation (PCM) multiplexer-encoder is described. The PCM was developed under contract to NASAMSC, Houston, and has been qualified to Apollo spacecraft environments. The unit accepts 98 channels of analog information (0 to 5 volts) and converts these data into an 8-bit code. A serial, binary coded output at selected bit rates ranging from 800 bits per second through 51.2 kc is provided. Primary emphasis is on the packaging techniques used. The advanced circuit design methods employed and the unique integrated circuit devices developed especially for the program are also discussed."
"The growth of the telephone network in the United States since the 1920's has been rapid and continuous. This expansion has been achieved largely through the application of carrier techniques. Most of the carrier systems, in addition to providing a number of voice bandwidth circuits, also have the capability of providing circuits of wider bandwidths. Through the years there has been a steady increase in the number and variety of communication services that require these wider bandwidths. These wideband services, as they are generally called, include telemetry, data, and graphic systems. Their evolution is traced and their technical requirements are briefly discussed."
"The mean and covariance of the instantaneous frequency of a narrowband, zero-mean, stationary, Gaussian random process are found when the quadrature components of the process are identically distributed. When the quadrature components are stationary and statistically independent, the mean and covariance expressions are identical to well-known expressions."
"Time-division multiplexing of digital signals with slightly different bit rates requires some method of bit rate equalization, which is termed synchronization. In pulse stuffing synchronization, extra pulses are inserted in each incoming signal as often as required to equalize the bit rates. These extra pulses carry no information and are removed when the signal is demultiplexed. They are identified by sync signals which are multiplexed and transmitted with the information signals using a bit (the added bit) allocated regularly to the synchronizing equipment. The sync signals are redundantly coded so that information loss due to transmission errors in those signals is negligible. A multiplexing system is described which simultaneously accepts binary data at 1.5, 54, and 108 Mb/s. These bit rates accommodate present day voice and television signals, using pulse code modulation. This system allows sufficient deviation of bit rates from nominal to permit the use of room temperature crystals at the terminals. Added-bit signaling also provides for convenient dropping and adding of a portion of the multiplexed information at many points along a high-capacity route. Laboratory tests have demonstrated the feasibility of this system."
"A wideband data station which can transmit binary serial data over half-group, group, and supergroup bandwidth telephone facilities at speeds up to 19.2, 50.0 and 230.4 kb/s, respectively, is described. A modular design permits many optional service features and operating arrangements to coordinate with a variety of customer terminal equipment arrangements and a variety of line facilities. An option is available for transmitting low-speed coordination data over an associated voiceband channel which is always provided. Remote test features are provided for ease of maintenance. The high-speed data channel of the station may be operated synchronously or nonsynchronously. In synchronous service, the station provides a transmit clock, receive recovered clock, signal regeneration and a self-synchronizing scrambling arrangement for spreading the signal energy over the available bandwidth of the high-speed channel. A restorer at the receiver reinserts the dc and low-frequency components of the signal removed at the transmitter for transmission reasons. A vestigial sideband modem is provided in half-group service."
"An exact derivation is presented for the binary detection probability for an optical polarization modulation communication system. A Gaussian approximation to this formulation is developed and compared to the exact derivation."
"A theoretical analysis of the differentially coherent phase-shift keying system acting under a wide range of noise and signal conditions is given. In addition to the elemental error rate, it is desirable to know the error rates for sequences of errors, since there is intersymbol dependency in this system. To determine the probability of a sequence ofrerrors requires, at most, integrations over volumes up to2r + 2dimensions, which are performed by Monte Carlo techniques. The analysis and computational schemes are such that any noise and signal statistics, as well as the use of nonlinear devices (noise suppression equipment), can be taken into account in calculating the error rates (for ak-phase system) as long as the resulting joint distributions of the instantaneous SNR at the phase detector can be determined in some form. A sequence ofrerrors requires knowledge of the (r + 1)st-order distribution. Since nothing is known of the joint densities of atmospheric or other non-Gaussian interference, and since many systems have slow enough bit rates for the noise to be independent from one integration period to the next, examples are given for the independent case for Gaussian noise and characteristic samples of atmospheric noise. Results for both constant and slow, flat, Rayleigh fading signal for the two and four phase systems are given, and comparisons of experimental results with the theoretical error rates are made. Also, for comparison, expressions are derived and results given for the error rates corresponding to the above for the coherent PSK system."
"This study reviews the analysis of the output autocorrelation function and spectral density for two CW signals which are passed through a hard limiter, describes the experimental results for two CW signals passed through a TWT, and analyzes the output autocorrelation function and spectral density for two FM signals, four CW signals, and four FM signals passed through a hard limiter. The principal analytical result shows that the output spectrum of multiple FM signals has the properties of multiple CW signals, as far as the centers of the cross-modulation spectrum are concerned, and the properties of narrowband Gaussian signals as far as the spectrum spreading is concerned, although the mechanism by which the spectral spreading occurs is different. The principal engineering result is the channel spacing for two, three, and four FM signals which will yieldnegligible third- and fifth-order crosstalk, when the input signals are passed through a hard limiter or TWT. The analysis of the output autocorrelation function and spectral density for an angle modulated signal when passed through a limiter is a contribution of the author."
"The effect of the oscillating limiter on message modulation when its bandpass filter has a flat amplitude and linear phase characteristic in the frequency range occupied by the input signal is discussed. A baseband equivalent transfer function of the oscillating limiter is introduced. When the linear model does not apply, the dependence of the distortion of the output message modulation on the amount of feedback, group delay around the loop, and characteristics of the input signal is shown through a series of curves. Results of this analysis give basic data for the design of an oscillating limiter, once the modulation Characteristics of its input signals have been specified."
"Three new general purpose wideband data facilities provide for the transmission of synchronous and nonsynchronous, 2-level data at bit rates ranging from 19.2 to 250 kb/s. These facilities make use of half-group, group, and supergroup bandwidth telephone facilities. The major components involved are the type 303 wideband data station, the exchange area transmission systems (local loop, N-Carrier, T1 Carrier), and the long-haul transmission systems [L-type multiplex (LMX) terminals, and coaxial cable and microwave radio circuits]. The group band system is representative and is discussed in some detail. The analog carrier systems were designed principally to handle voice frequency transmission and they present special problems when they are adapted to accommodate wideband signals. For example, up to eight LMX group connector filters may be encountered in a 4000 mile circuit and each connector introduces over 150μs of delay distortion in the transmission band. Special delay equalizers are added to each connector which reduce the distortion to\\pm 3\\mus in the band 64 to 104 kHz. The modulation schemes utilized in the various wideband modems were carefully tailored to the respective carrier systems. The LMX modem, used as an example in this paper, utilizes vestigial sideband, suppressed carrier, amplitude modulation. A carrier frequency pilot is added to the transmitted signal to facilitate carrier recovery in the receiver. The pilot is separated from the wideband signal in the receiver by a crystal bandpass filter. The filtered pilot is used for two functions; it is used to control an AGC circuit and hence the level of the received signal, and it is used in a multiple loop APC circuit to coherently demodulate the wideband signal. The APC circuit is new and promises improved performance over the conventional phase-locked oscillator when used in a coherent detector. It is capable of maintaining smaller phase errors in the presence of phase perturbations and, furthermore, the recovered carrier is always at exactly the correct frequency and hence the circuit is incapable of breaking lock."
"Seven computer simulation programs, developed to analyze a random access discrete address communications system, are discussed. Particular emphasis is placed upon four of the programs, which performed such functions as analysis of communications requirements, evaluation of mutual interference, evaluation of the adequacy of range extension equipment, and analysis of the overall system concept. The basic design of each program is discussed with attention to the situation modeled, the parametric input variations permitted, and the outputs provided. The development and use of these programs illustrates the significant contribution simulation can make in the analysis and design of large-scale communications systems."
"A transmission plan is described for interconnecting type 303 wideband data stations via facilities of the Bell System national network and those of connecting companies. Transmission signals are binary at digital rates up to 250 kb/s. The data station provides dc restoration of the polar signal to relieve the difficult requirement for adequate transmission close to zero frequency. The plan admits widespread use of the available, frequency-division, analog types of facility as well as the newer digital transmission facilities. Discussion is concentrated on 50 kb/s service in the 48 kc/s bandwidth ordinarily assigned to 12 telephone channels. A wideband network is predicated as a reasonable model for defining transmission limitations."
"The telephone numbering plan used for commercial service throughout North America is reviewed as an introduction to discussion of forthcoming modifications. Emphasis is placed on the procedures planned to increase the number of area codes and office codes beyond present limits. The structure of the worldwide numbering plan recently adopted by the CCITT is also described. Here attention focuses on the dialing sequence of interest to subscribers, namely, the access code, the country code, and the national number. Through discussion of the North American and worldwide numbering plans, the interacting and sometimes conflicting objectives of numbering are illustrated."
"In the recently published paper by Northrop named above (ibid., COM-14, pp. 45-56 February 1966), nomograms are used to obtain solutions to individual aspects of the satellite communication problem. It may perhaps be of interest to note that by making a four-fold application of the parallel-line type of nomogram [2] , [3], one can display most of the parameters in Northrop's design equation (20) without introducing too much nomographic complication. A nomogram is shown that was produced for the particular case of the slant-range being fixed. However, the frequency scale f could be replaced by a freespace path loss LFS scale by noting that f = 0.1 Gc/s corresponds to LFS = 164.9 dB, f = 1.0 Gc/s corresponds to LFS = 154.9 dB, and 10 Gc/s corresponds to LFS = 204.9 dB."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"A method is developed which permits the impulse response of a characteristically terminated transmission line to be determined to any desired accuracy ifR, L, G, C, and length are known. Data is given for a five percent approximation and an example shows how the method may be used to determine the G[z] of the line."
"Line and trunk circuits which combine twin-contact electromechanical relays with correeds are detailed. Priority, hot line service, and other facilities-a Dial Service Assistance (DSA) switchboard, supervisor's console, and instructor's console are also described."
"The specifications of the overseas AUTOVON (Automatic Voice Network) system included detailed physical, electrical, environmental, and other criteria. To meet these requirements, after evaluating all other design goals, two types of housings were developed. A drawer cabinet houses the crosspoint switching matrix (CSM) cards on vertical, slide-mounted drawers. A gate cabinet houses the electronic power modules, logic wiring cards, and electromechanical circuit assemblies, on hinged gates. Cabinets bolt to each other, to the floor, and to an overhead cable-raceway grid, which carries the control, signal, and transmission cables. Power and ground (frame, shield, battery, and electronic) cables are segregated on the raceway."
"Preventive and corrective maintenance, packaging concepts, fault-administration methods, and priorities for trouble reports, considered in the design stages, are assessed. System operation is continually monitored; built-in equipment permits automatic and manual routining of critical functions at predetermined intervals."
"An automatic toll ticketing system was cut into service in Las Vegas, Nev., on November 22, 1964, providing some services never before available. The general purpose relay used in this system embodies imaginative new concepts in. device design and application. The ESK relay was supported by several other highly reliable devices produced by Siemens & Halske, including EMD motorswitches and impulse repeaters. A new cordless operator position was developed to reduce both operator work time and possibility for error. Several auxiliary consoles were used for traffic administration, observation, and operator training."
"The large aperture seismic array (LASA) project consists of 21 sites around each of which are located 25 seismometers. By using an unusual arrangement of standard transmission facilities, the detected signals are transmitted to a processing center for analysis."
"A model is proposed for microwave fading so that the outages of microwave relay systems due to propagation fading can be computed from fading data on individual channels. This is important so that the various system design factors can be evaluated as to reliability without extensive building and testing. Such design factors include fading margins, the number of working and protection channels, the width and allocation of radio channels, the number of radio hops per switching section, and the equipment failure rates. Quantitative data show that this theory checks outage data, at least in a particular case."
"Switching of wideband information on an analog basis is generally achieved by the use of switching arrays utilizing electromechanical crosspoints. This paper describes the results of a program initiated to investigate the possibility of designing an equivalent system utilizing solid-state devices. Investigations were carried out to determine the suitability of both solid-state space divided switching arrays and also into the use of time divided switching networks. It soon became obvious that with the high input frequencies that were required to be switched, the corresponding frame periods and time slot durations would require clock frequencies, rise times, etc., which were excessively fast for reliable working. It was, therefore, decided that space division techniques would be utilized. It was also decided that dependency on the use of amplitude modulated inputs would be avoided due to the susceptibility to interchannel crosstalk. This was especially critical at the higher frequencies contemplated, due to the increased effect of stray capacity. A review of various nonamplitude modulated pulse systems resulted in a choice being made to convert all amplitude dependent inputs into a pulse position code. This choice was based on economic factors together with the fact that even though it has an analog characteristic, it is generally insensitive to amplitude variations. The resultant plan, therefore, evolved into a space division switching system utilizing the conversion of all inputs into a pulse position code."
"This paper reports on overseas AUTOVON, a 4-wire, nonblocking, space-division system with correed crosspoint matrices, electronically controlled. Electromechanical elements permit connections to HF, UHF, and troposcatter microwave links, 4-wire instruments, and land lines."
"Separate subsystems provide for registering, translating, and sending telephone address information, and for real-time monitoring and upgrading of line and trunk conditions. The registersender subsystem is time-shared; associated with it are facilities for sending and receiving dial or key addresses. The translator subsystem has a ferrite-core memory, divided into functional sections. The memory subsystem is sequentially accessed by the register-sender, and is either sequentially or randomly accessed by the translator. Six alternate routes are provided per destination, with five levels of precedence and preemption on all trunks busy."
"This paper considers the problem of detecting a sample vector from a signal random process which is imbedded in additive Gaussian noise. The probability distributions of the signal-plus-noise process are unknown. The correlation matrices are assumed known for the Gaussian noise process and for the signal-plus-noise process. It is assumed that a quadratic operation will be used to form the test statistic. The optimum operation from this class is derived, using the deflection criterion as the criterion of optimality. Conditions for factorization of the optimum weight matrix are given, and the optimum signal correlation matrix is derived."
"A small, self-contained private branch exchange (PBX) utilizing a ferreed switching network and wired electronic control logic is described. The system features economical basic service with plug-in facilities for growth, additional features, and ease of maintenance."
"There have been significant technological advancements in recent years in the automation of handling, switching, and accounting of telephone toll calls and other operator-assistance types of calls. The concept of the Traffic Service Position has been developed to speed and standardize human operations for all kinds of calls involving operators. Several features of the ADDDS system installed at Las Vegas, Nev., for the Central Telephone Company of Southern Nevada are described. A wide versatility of the operator position readily accommodates various difficult to handle categories of calls, such as time-and-charge, delayed, emergency, leave word, paystation calls, and others. An extremely effective system is used to monitor and control traffic to the operators under congestion conditions and to predict and adjust operator force size. A fully automatic scheme is used to deliver time-and-charge-information for calls made by guests of hotels, using teletypewriter techniques, within a few seconds of completion of the calls. A special solid-state and ferrite core computer serves the triple function of computing charges for: 1) Prepay coin telephone calls 2) Time-and-charge calls for hotel guests 3) All calls that are machine ticketed for preparation of billing. This system, cut into service in November 1964, serving approximately 80 000 subscribers and producing 15 to 20 thousand tickets a day, is equipped with 120 operator positions."
"The editor briefly considers the overall activities of the Technical Committees (TCs) as a background for their Transactions reviewing responsibilities, and discusses the specific fields of interest of the present TCs."
"This Telemetry Checkout Station (TCS) is designed to automatically perform many measurements on the Saturn V vehicle telemetry links. Its unique features include real-time digitizing and computer-controlled station setup, data processing, and self-check. Standard telemetry equipment is used to receive, demodulate, and process the various signals. Analog signals are automatically digitized and assembled into a predetermined time slot. Each word of the constructed wave train is scaled and calibrated, using stored calibration values. The data is outputted to the launch vehicle checkout equipment for final evaluation. This station handles many various automatic tests merely by changing its computer programs."
"Common carrier telephone facilities-half-group restored polar data sets, open wire, and microwave radio-have been adapted to provide wideband data transmission service for M.I.T. Lincoln Laboratory's Montana LASA (large aperture seismic array). This paper describes the transmission plan and design objectives. Synchronous, 19.2 kilobit per second serial data are transmitted from each of 21 data gathering sites to LASA data center (LDC) at Billings, Montana. From LDC, 19.2 kilobit per second timing and 1.2 kilobit per second control data are sent toward each site. A voice coordinating channel has been provided between LDC and each site. In order to meet the service date, these channels were multiplexed on the single open wire pair connecting each site with a specified microwave radio station by use of directional and cut-apart filters, and vestigial sideband demodulators not specifically tailored to this application. Despite resulting signal constraint toward the sites, modified but valuable remote test features that are available on the wideband data station are preserved. The service requirements of widely scattered array have been met, and performance has been satisfactory through all environmental conditions thus far experienced."
"An underwater telemeter system has been developed for the White Fish Authority which can provide the fishing trawler skipper with information concerning various features of the trawl he is towing, e.g., mouth opening, ambient conditions, etc. The system employs time-division multiplexing to provide four channels with the information being transmitted by modulating the PRF of pulses of 40 kHz carrier. The measurements made in the prototype system are 1) water temperature at the sea bed, 2) strain in the cables on the trawl, 3) height of the trawl opening, and 4) width of the trawl opening. The equipment described is: 1) A cylindrical shaped transmitter floated in the center of the trawl head-line, housing a thermistor for sensing temperature, and a pulsed echo sounder operating at 200 kHz for measuring the height of the trawl opening. 2) Two transponder units mounted on the wing ends of the trawl, measuring the width of the opening and carrying sensors for the strain in the towing cable. 3) Either a ship mounted or towed receiver followed by signal decoding circuitry and display."
"A radio telemetry system is described which satisfies the data acquisition requirements for research in the field of military environmental medicine. The adoption of digital encoding, transmitting, and recording techniques, and the development of a methodology which features serial interrogation by a portable data recording station, have resulted in the construction of a 100-subchannel facility capable of precise measurement and recording of a variety of physiological measurands during field maneuvers. The basic equipment configuration includes a data recording station which generates the time base for interrogation and produces a punched paper tape suitable for direct computer entry and five associated data acquisition stations carried by test subjects performing military tasks in environmental extremes. All units are selfcontained, battery-powered, solid-state packages compatible with standard army load carrying systems."
"A data display meeting objectives of rapid updating, concentrated viewing area, access to multiple formats, high reliability, and flexibility has been developed for use with the Real Time Telemetry Data System (RTTDS). This display superimposes alpha-numeric symbols projected from a matrix of electromechanical data projectors on background formats projected by a random access 35 mm slide projector. Control logic for this device is shown in block form and reliability and other specifications listed. Background formats for use in the RTTDS are described as is the interface logic consisting of manual and automatic inputs, a core memory, and buffer registers. Typical updating times of the system addressed from sequential memory locations vary from 10 to 15 seconds depending on the amount of data to be changed. An alternate logic scheme using scanning techniques reduces updating time to 4 to 6 seconds. Self-testing programs can be utilized and an example is given. An industrial application for the data display is described including a typical block diagram and background formats."
"This paper describes the Automated Patching System (APS) which was designed and installed for the Atlantic Missile Range. This system replaces a large manual patchboard and an inquiry display board, thereby permitting rapid reconfiguration and interrogation of a large communication network. The APS consists of input/output devices for data input, functional logging, and matrix control. A unique control unit utilizing a digital processor, internally programmed for real-time operation and system control, is used as the common control. A complete system configuration is outlined with functional descriptions of each device. System requirements and other factors which contributed to the system design approach are described."
"The problems involved in HF high-power amplifiers or transmitters that do not require manual tuning or adjustment when the frequency of emission is changed, are discussed. An automatic tuning system for a high-power linear amplifier is described. This linear amplifier tunes to a band-limited signal, without requiring additional information from the signal source or exciter. A theoretical analysis of the control system performing the tuning function is presented and compared with the results obtained experimentally."
"The author of the paper \"Design and Analysis of a Linear Phase-Locked Loop of Wide Dynamic Range,\" which appeared on pp. 432-440 of the August, 1966, issue of these Transactions notes corrections to the second line in the first column on p. 436, equation (13), (34), the first line in the second column on p. 438, and in the sixth line in the first column on p. 439, reference should be made to Fig. 9 rather than Fig. 8."
"The author author of the paper \"Binary Error Probabilities Over Selectively Fading Channels Containing Specular Components,\" which appeared on pp. 400-406 of the August, 1966, issue of these Transactions, noted corrections that need to be made to equations (15), (19), (48), (56), (81) and (82)."
"Two types of markers were designed for the overseas AUTOVON (Automatic Voice Network). The switch marker and matrix (comprised of 6-element crosspoints) are used to interconnect the various switching circuits provided in the office. The DSA (Dial Service Assistance) marker and matrix are used to connect DSA trunk circuits to operator position circuits. Each marker is a sequentially operating device with self-checking circuitry to detect internal failures which are recorded by a separate maintenance monitor circuit. Two markers are always provided in each section (switch or DSA), one marker active or on-line, and the other used as a standby unit. When trouble is detected, an allotter circuit transfers the traffic load to the standby unit."
"This paper develops a generalized technique for exact determination of time and frequency domain behavior of the crosscorrelation function between input and any point of interest in a linear system, driven by a periodic pseudo-random binary waveform. The output autocorrelation function is also treated by a variation of the scheme. The technique is conceptually simple and offers exact solutions in closed form. The solutions are in such a form as to make possible, by inspection, the determination of when sequence periodicity may and may not be neglected. Sufficient examples are given to clarify the theory."
"When multiparameter and multilevel waveforms are used in digital recording or communication systems, the nature and number of distinct waveform transitions that can occur in a specified interval of time must always be known. This paper outlines techniques for that purpose. The theory developed is quite general in that it deals with the enumeration of transitions in any multilevel, multiparameter discrete system. Using the theory, many recording and communication schemes may be invented which depend on selecting a subset of waveforms whose parameters have certain specified characteristics. Since the discrete waveform of time durationnis equivalent to a codeword ofnsymbols, this paper also provides the theory and analytical methods of the symbol transition properties of codes generated by sequential machines."
"\\parallel R_{yy} (\\tau) \\parallelcalculations for two circuits (one of whose amplitude characteristic approaches the other as a limit) show that convergence of one type (filter amplitude convergence) does not imply smooth convergence of the circuit's output autocorrelation function. Specifically, the autocorrelation function of a cascade of amplifiers does not behave uniformly (or expectedly) as the number of stages increases. For the same bandwidth, the output autocorrelation function of a Gaussian filter matches best for small numbers of cascaded stages (and small τ)."
"It is well known that in communicating over randomly time-varying channels, a receiver which performs a channel measurement can make a better decision than one that does not. Furthermore, if the channel characteristics vary relatively slowly in comparison to a large number of adjacent message intervals, a small portion of the transmittter energy can be devoted to channel measurement, and, in spite of the loss of energy in the information bearing portion of the signal, the resulting system performs better than one with no measurement. This paper shows that improved system performance from a channel measuring system occurs, even when the channel characteristics are fixed only during the present message interval. The randomly time-varying channel studied is that of a Rayleigh fading medium with independently fading mark and space channels whose fading is fixed over one baud interval but is independent from baud to baud. The transmission system is a modified frequency shift keying (FSK) system such that during a portion of a baud interval, the mark and space frequencies are always transmitted so as to act as reference signals. For this system, the following has been established: 1) optimum receiver configuration 2) optimum ratio α of information energy to total signal energy as a function of total available SNR for a single fading channel. 3) asymptotic optimum α for anM-diversity channel 4) error probabilities for item 2 and asymptotic error probabilities for item S for αoptas a function of total SNR. The asymptotic results show that by using reference techniques the order of diversity is effectively doubled."
"A tutorial presentation is made in broad and general terms regarding the properties of the MF and HF portions of the radio spectrum as they pertain to and affect communication systems. The fine grain behavior in terms of amplitude and phase variations are presented in conjunction with the effects of fading periods, time and frequency spread, and atmospheric noise. A discussion of both theoretical and experimental bounds in error rate levels of digital systems as a function of the basic attributes of the ionospheric channel is undertaken in connection with the adaptive approach to communication system design. Two adaptive systems are described briefly in terms of their ability to cope with the time variant dispersive ionospheric channel."
"This paper reports an exact quantitative evaluation of the relative effectiveness of line-assigned and line-shared buffer storage in a message switch, or of a circuit switch that holds blocked calls for later connection. It is well known that shared storage is more efficient than line storage in the sense that fewer message storage units are required to provide the same level of protection against message rejection. However, a unit of common storage may be considerably more expensive than a unit of line storage because of differences in the storage media itself and the need for additional control circuitry. Thus, an exact quantitative analysis of the relative effectiveness of line assigned and line-shared buffer storage can provide a basis for trade-off studies between the two types of storage."
"A determinant equality known in linear algebra is shown to be an effective tool for control engineers in reducing complexity of eigenvalue computation and increasing insight into system behavior. Included are its applications to matrix products and singular matrices, to the study of systems with poles at the origin, and to the problem of finding the characteristic equation of an optimal regulator problem."
"The problem of minimizing the ensemble average of a performance index in the presence of control noise has received substantial attention in the literature. This work considers a generalization of viewpoint, in which the index variance is minimized while its expectation is constrained. Necessary and sufficient relations are derived for linear, time-invariant systems and disturbances having rational spectra. The open-loop, optimal-feedback solution is specified by its characteristic equation and boundary conditions for Gaussian noises and plants with distinct eigenvalues. The canonic structure of a noise-free plant incorporating covariance data from the disturbance process is shown to have fundamental significance in the optimal solution. Several examples are presented."
"Recent developments in learning systems for automatic control are discussed from the point of view of pattern recognition. The following mathematical areas are given special attention: 1) decision theory, which produces control policies from gradually adjusted estimates of pattern probabilities, 2) trainable threshold logic, which produces control policies from networks of adjustable threshold devices, 3) stochastic approximation, which produces asymptotically optimum controllers, and 4) Markov chain theory, which provides an approach to modelling the dynamics of learning controllers. Projected applications in the following areas are discussed: process control, automated design of controllers, reliability control, numerical computation, and communication systems. A selected bibliography is included."
"This paper presents a generalization of the parameter plane method in that it considers the case when the characteristic equation coefficients are nonlinear functions of the system adjustable parameters. The generalized method is then applied to the system analysis in which the coefficients are linear functions of two parameters and their product. As a simple and rapid procedure for factoring polynomials in the parameter plane, the method is used in the design of linear continuous multivariable control systems. A non-linear system with two nonlinearities is also considered whereby the stability and existence of limit cycles are investigated."
"Some useful properties of the Chebyshev polynomials are derived. By virtue of their discrete orthogonality, a truncated Chebyshev polynomials series is used to approximate a function whose discrete samples are the only available data. If minimization of the sum of the discrete squared error is used as the criterion, subject to some constraints on initial conditions and/or terminal conditions, the coefficients of the polynomials are easy to obtain. The simplicity of computing the coefficients of the polynomials from the discrete values of the function to be approximated is utilized to the approximate determination of optimal trajectories via dynamic programming using the technique of polynomial approximation. This allows use of the functional equation approach to solve multi-dimensional variational problems."
"Halkin has given a derivation of the discrete maximum principle using a convexity requirement. An example given in this paper shows that incorrect results may be obtained when Halkin's convexity requirement is not met. There are, however, systems that do not satisfy the convexity requirement, but for which there is still a maximum principle. The discrete maximum principle is rederived with a requirement, directional convexity, that is weaker than convexity and which considerably extends its applicability. Though convexity has appeared to be basic in the development of optimal control theory, it is only the weaker property of directional convexity which is required for much of the development."
"For some systems, the Popov stability criterion fails to verify Aizerman's conjecture, that is, when the Popov sector is not equal to the linear (Hurwitz) sector. In these cases, the question of stability for a nonlinearity which exceeds the Popov sector, but which is included in the Hurwitz sector, is unanswered. This paper provides a partial answer to this question by taking into account the slope of the nonlinear function. By constraining this slope to the interval[-k_{1}, k_{2}]and the nonlinearity to the sector[0, k], the following stability inequality is obtainedRe (1 + j\\omegaq)G(j\\omega) + 1/k +\\mu\\omega^{2}{1 + (k_{2}-k_{1})Re G(j\\omega)-k_{1}k_{2}| G(j\\omega)|^{2}} >0where μ is a non-negative parameter. For\\mu=0this inequality reduces to the Popov criterion. Two examples are given, in the first of which the sector is extended up to the linear limit. The Popov theorem concerned only the zero-input response of the nonlinear feedback system~ whereas here a restricted class of inputs to the system is allowed."
"In this paper, the problem of stability in distributed parameter systems with feedback controls is formulated directly in the framework of partial differential equations without resorting to further approximations. Sufficient conditions for Lyapunov asymptotic stability are derived for particular classes of systems with distributed, mixed distributed, and boundary control laws, and also for systems with time delay. The applications of the main results are illustrated by examples."
"A quadratic performance index is considered as a generalized criterion for designing linear multivariable control systems. A method is developed for expressing the characteristic polynomial of the optimal system as an explicit function of the weighting matrix elements of the performance index. Since these elements are actually the design parameters it then becomes possible to obtain some general properties of the optimal systems as well as to select the weighting matrix elements, such that more conventional criteria on the system transient response are satisfied. The results are applied to the design of two multivariable systems; in one case, the plant is initially unstable and, in the second case, it is desired to have the system response follow that of a linear model."
"This paper considers the effects of small control function variations of bounded magnitude. Two types of variations are considered: one, called \"continual,\" is infinitesimally small over the control interval; the other, called \"intermittent,\" is a pulse-type variation. If the control task is to take the system from an initial state to some target set, it is shown that, no matter how \"tight\" the control tolerances, there is always in general some control within tolerances which will cause the target to be missed. An exception to this rule is the case where the target is of dimensionality one less than that of the state-time space. Target sets not falling in this latter class are used in design as idealizations of actual target sets (e.g. a point is used instead of a small sphere). If a nominal control is found which takes the state to the ideal target, tolerances on this control are found such that the actual target will always be reached. If the nominal control is optimal with respect to the ideal set, giving some nominal cost, it is shown how one can find the possible cost variations resulting from the use of controls wthin the tolerance limits."
"A technique is described by which a digital representation of an angle is converted into a pair of ac voltages suitable for exciting a synchro or resolver, which may be used as the feedback element of a control system. The technique is quite economical of hardware, is capable of an arbitrary degree of accuracy, and is adaptable to almost any radix digital input signal. The simplicity and economy of the method depends on digitally generating two voltages that are functions of the digitally designated angle, but are not proportional to the sine and cosine per se. These functions are chosen in such a way that their ratio approximates the tangent of the designed angle with an arbitrarily small error. An example of the technique and some experimental results are given."
"Because of the complications involved in synthesizing time optimal switching functions, several approximate or quasi-time optimal switching functions have been considered. Of importance in selecting such an approximate switching curve is whether or not the corresponding forcing function will reduce the plant's initial states to the origin, thus giving asymptotic stability. This papers by using the Second Method of Lyapunov, develops a set of sufficient conditions which, if met by the switching curve and the plant, will insure the existence of asymptotic stability in the large. The plant considered is defined by the general second-order expression\\ddot{c} + g(c)h(\\dot{c})\\dot{c} + p(c) = m."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"For a general model of a linear distributed parameter system, the problem of minimizing the norm of the difference between desired system response and obtainable system response is considered. Here the control input is constrained to be bounded in magnitude. An optimal solution is shown to exist, and an optimal solution in a class of controls dense in the constraint set is shown to exist. This latter class is characterized byNparameters whose values are obtainable by a convex programming algorithm presented in the paper. The technique developed can also be directly applied to lumped parameter systems, lumped parameter driven distributed parameter systems and the optimum magnitude constrained input final value control problem for any of the preceding."
"This paper treats the problem of optimal control of one-dimensional linear stationary distributed-parameter systems which are controlled by boundary control functions. The systems are assumed to be representable by means of integral operators with suitably restricted kernel function. By using the variational method, integral equations are obtained as necessary and sufficient conditions for the optimum. When the control functions are not subjected to any constraints, a Fredholm integral equation of the second kind is obtained. When the control functions are magnitude-limited, a system of nonlinear integral equations of similar form to the integral equation of the Hammerstein type is obtained. The analytical solutions and the numerical solutions to the integral equations are shown."
"The problem of estimating a signalx(t)from linear measurementsz(t)=x(t)+w(t)is considered. The signalw(t)is white noise with known statistics, whilex(t)is an unknown nonrandom signal drawn from a set of admissible waveforms having bounded second derivatives for which statistics are undefined. Problems of this type arise naturally in the radar tracking of an evasive vehicle under the control of an intelligent adversary. Such problems are also important in trajectory estimation on a missile test range, since a priori statistics for a malfunctioning missile cannot by nature be obtained. The problem is formulated as a minimax estimation problem in which the object is to find that filter design which minimizes the maximun value of estimation error taken over all admissible signal waveforms\\ddot{x}| \\leq\\alpha. An analytic solution is obtained for design of the optimal filter when measurements extend into the infinite past. The impulse response function is exhibited, and its performance is compared with that obtained using more usual estimation techniques. It is discovered that the impulse response function of the optimal filter has a finite time history terminating at a critical observation lag time:t= T_{max}."
"This paper presents and evaluates a heuristic method for designing easily implemented quasi-optimal, minimum-time controllers for high-order dynamic systems. The high-performance, or quasi-optimal, controller is obtained by least-squares fitting points on the optimal switching surface with an easily implemented, linear-segment switching surface. This method is attractive because least-squares approximation is an analytic procedure which is readily applicable to high-order dynamic systems since it requires no visualization of the surface for its application. The method is applicable to linear dynamic systems with real characteristic frequencies as well as many other dynamic systems. For evaluation, the method has been used to design the switching surface for a triple-integrator dynamic system (i.e.,1/s^{3}plant). A third-order system has been used, instead of a more easily portrayed second-order system, since it more typically illustrates the problems encountered in the approximation of higher-order switching surfaces. Typical response times for the quasi-optimal switching surface in this example are 1.5 to 2 times those of the minimum-time optimal switching surface and roughly one-half those of the best linear switching surface."
"This paper presents a technique which utilizes the state-variable approach to analyze the performance of a multivariable system with multiple eigenvalues. This technique is believed to be better than other proposed ones in its simplicity in obtaining the solution."
"In certain problems associated with the control of linear dynamical systems, the concept of invariant hyperplanes in the system state space plays an important role [1]-[8]. This short paper gives conditions for the existence of invariant hyperplanes for linear dynamical systems and describes some geometric properties of these hyperplanes. In addition, some relationships between invariant hyperplanes and the concepts of controllability and observability are discussed."
"The graphical method of constructing root locus is very well known. The analytical methods of obtaining root locus equations developed in the Soviet Union merit utilization due to the flexibility inherent in the manipulation of algebraic expressions. Arrays are developed whereby these algebraic expressions can be obtained from a knowledge of the open loop transfer function. Breakaway points on the real axis and intersection with the imaginary axis can be obtained directly from these arrays. Finally, arrays are formulated for the case where one of the parameters of the open loop transfer function varies."
"Often it is possible to represent physical systems by a number of simultaneous linear differential equations with constant coefficients,\\dot{x} = Ax + rbut for many processes (e.g., chemical plants, nuclear reactors), the order of the matrix A may be quite large, say 50×50, 100×100, or even 500×500. It is difficult to work with these large matrices and a means of approximating the system matrix by one of lower order is needed. A method is proposed for reducing such matrices by constructing a matrix of lower order which has the same dominant eigenvalues and eigenvectors as the original system."
"An important class of nonlinear control systems can be represented by a single-loop negative feedback circuit having one isolated, instantaneous type, nonlinear element in series with a linear transfer function withmth-degree numerator polynomial andnth-degree denominator polynomial (m \\leq n). In the literature on automatic control, many of the techniques and theorems associated with this class of systems are restricted in application to the special casem < n. In this short paper, a technique is described whereby the casem = ncan be transformed to the casem < n. By this means, some of the results that heretofore were restricted to the casem < ncan be successfully applied to the casem = n. In particular, this procedure, together with a certain theorem about nonlinear functions with feedback, makes it possible to apply some recent results in absolute stability to certain cases ofm = n."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"This paper presents the analysis of asymmetrical non-linear oscillations by the parameter plane method and the describing function technique. The asymmetrical oscillations, which refer to the case when a limit cycle is superimposed on a constant or slow-varying signal, are investigated in control systems having either asymmetrical nonlinear characteristics or slow-varying input signals. It is shown how the presence of a limit cycle can modify the nonlinear characteristic for the slow-varying signal. A procedure is presented by which the modified characteristic is calculated. The application of the procedure to limit cycling control and adaptive systems is straightforward. The proposed method is illustrated by examples in which the asymmetrical oscillations are investigated in multiloop feedback structures with several adjustable parameters and different non-linear characteristics. The obtained results are checked by computer simulations."
"An extremum control system is considered which consists of the following in cascade: an integrator, a function of the parabolic type and a first-order system. A method is presented for determining and maintaining the extremum in the presence of disturbances. The method suggested consists of perturbing the system input, then using the discontinuities in an appropriate derivative of the system output to determine the extremum. The advantage gained is speed in identifying the extremum independent of the initial conditions. Analog and digital computer results are given."
"The problem of applying a newly developed extension of Pontryagin's principle to control systems whose control laws may contain δ-functions as well as ordinary functions is considered. Optimal control laws are computed in several specific examples to illustrate the methods involved in applying this principle."
"A certain class of discrete optimization problems is investigated using the framework of nonlinear programming. It is shown that a discrete maximum principle similar to the Pontryagin maximum principle is valid for a subclass of these problems, specifically systems with linear dynamics, convex inequality constraints and convex performance criteria. This result extends the applicability of the discrete maximum principle to a class of problems not covered by the Rozonoer-Halkin formulation."
"The optimum energy-constrained and time-constrained input signal is obtained for estimating the parameters of a system. The output is corrupted by nonstationary, nonwhite additive observation noise, and the observation time is finite. The reproducing kernel Hilbert space formulation is used to obtain the parameter estimates and the error covariance matrix in terms of the input. The performance index, assumed to be a function of the error covariance matrix, is minimized by a variational procedure. A necessary condition for optimality is that the input satisfy a nonlinear Fredholm equation. An example estimates the gain of a single time constant system where the observation noise has an exponential autocorrelation function. For broadband noise, the optimum input is a portion of a sinusoid. For a noise bandwidth narrower than the system bandwidth, the optimum input switches sign as rapidly as possible, but near-optimum performance can be obtained with a relatively high frequency sinusoidal input."
"An extension of Horowitz's root-locus compensation design method is presented for analyzing and designing a high-gain linear system having variable coefficients. Rules for positioning the far-out poles of such a system based upon known specifications are established. These rules, when applicable, permit a high-gain system capable of handling large variations in the loop gain parameter to be successfully designed."
"Schwarz's form is fundamental and effective in constructing Liapuaov functions, in proving the Hurwitz criterion, and in evaluating performance measures in system analysis. However, the procedures developed thus far for obtaining the Schwarz form are complicated. This paper establishes a basic transformation matrix by which a phase-variable form is easily converted into a Schwarz form. When the new transformation matrix is used, Kalman-Bertram's Liapunov function is simplified and Ralston's symmetric matrix formulation of the Hurwitz criterion is derived in a completely different but much more sophisticated way. Finally, to the authors' knowledge, this is the first time that practical use has been made of the second, third, etc., columns of Routh's array."
"In this paper, a procedure is developed to investigate and predict the properties of certain types of forced oscillations in a class of nonlinear sampled-data control systems. Use is made of the discrete describing function, and the results are checked on the IBM 7094 digital computer. A sinusoidal input signal with variable amplitude and phase is applied to a relay-type sampled-data control system. It is shown that the input signal has the effect of changing the shape of the critical regions of the negative-inverse of the discrete describing function. The amplitude, phase, and frequency of the forced oscillation can be computed from the intersection between the critical region and frequency loci of the linear portion of the system. Proper selections of amplitude, phases and frequency of the forcing sinusoidal signal permit the elimination and suppression of certain types of sustained oscillations in the system."
"This paper is a brief description of the development of simple hybrid sampled-data controllers. The control function generated is amplitude-constrained and is approximately optimum with respect to a given quadratic performance index. The plant controlled is linear with accessible state variables and is sampled with constant period. An optimum controller for a free-terminal-state plant is designed. Quasi-optimum controllers for a fixed-terminal-state plant are designed and tested. The third-order plant1/[s(s+0.2)(s+1)]is simulated on an analog computer and controlled by each of the quasi-optimum controllers."
"This paper presents the development of an algorithm for control of the sampling interval in discrete systems. The proposed strategy is based on the use of a sensitivity function which reflects the influence of discrete changes in hold circuit output on system response. The actual algorithm is hybrid, including both continuous computation and logical decisions. The method is illustrated by examples with a linear and a nonlinear sampled-data control system. The adaptive systems, where the sampling interval is variable, are shown to lead to significant reductions in the total number of samples required in an interval, as compared to equivalent systems with a fixed sampling rate."
"The purpose of this paper is to extend the methods of sensitivity analysis to discrete systems, with major emphasis on the determination of the effects of perturbations in sampling frequency on system performance. A method for the derivation of a sensitivity difference equation is presented. The method is applied to the study of both local effects (i.e., effects upon the next sampled value) and global effects (i.e., effects upon the entire solution sequence). The global sensitivity function is applied to extrapolation of system performance. The local sensitivity function is used as a basis for the synthesis of a discrete system with an adaptive sampling control law."
"Magnetic amplifiers can be rendered phase sensitive with the aid of phase-sensitive rectifiers [1]. In the present study phase sensitivity was effected directly, without recourse to an additional device with a phase-sensitive characteristic. It is shown that conventional two-core amplifiers, with one load winding and one control winding only on each core, are made phase sensitive by application of a phase-dependent ac rectified signal. Experiments were carried out with a signal derived from supply voltage for the load circuit and obtainable from any phase-shifting device (selsyn, resolver). In conjunction with the even-harmonic voltage produced at the control-coil terminals by the nonlinearity of the core characteristic, it results in phase-angle dependence of the even harmonic no-load voltage. Intrinsic feedback on the control side (and in certain cases feedback from the load circuit) gives the amplifier its phase-angle dependent current characteristic. If a pair of identical amplifiers are used with the control signal originating from different phases, zero current and phase reversal are obtainable at the output. Similarly, dc output with a directional characteristic is obtainable by transferring the load to the control circuit and connecting the load circuit of the two amplifiers to different phases of the supply source, the signal source being single-phase in this case. Load feedback, added to the intrinsic feedback of the control side, permits a current jump at a certain predetermined phase angle, so that the system operates like a switch; this jump can be reversed by opening the load feedback circuit. In the Appendix, an approximation is derived for the even-harmonic no-load voltage as function of the phase angle of the signal. This can be used as Thévenin voltage, and the calculation continued in the conventional way [2], [3]."
"It was shown in a previous paper that Halkin's maximum principle for difference equations linear in the state could be generalized by relaxing a convexity requirement to directional convexity. We show here that Halkin's results for difference equations not necessarily linear in the state may also be generalized. The new proof uses some rather simple arguments. The proof is based on a condition characterizing the optimal solution. This condition may be used to strengthen the maximum principle in the abnormal case."
"The problem of transforming a single-input, single-output, time-variable linear system to phase-variable form is considered in this paper. Specific criteria for the existence of an equivalent canonical form are derived together with a method for obtaining the form when it exists. This method, when specialized to fixed systems, is particularly simple, and results in an easilyconstructed explicit form for the transforming matrix. Furthermore, the calculation of eigenvalues and eigenvectors necessary in previously published techniques is avoided."
"The worst-case error analysis is extended to include the problem of bounded inputr(t)and its rate of changedr/dtfor a a dynamical system described by a set of differential equations with separable forcing function. The problem is reformulated as a bounded-input, bounded-state variable problem, and Pontryagin's Maximum Principle is applied to maximize a given error function. For a wide class of systems, the time derivative of the worst forcing function is shown to be \"bang-bang\" for the open region defined by the constraint ofr(t)and zero on its boundary. A computational algorithm is developed to solve the resulting two-point boundary value problem."
"A method is presented whereby the absolute and relative stability of linear control systems containing transport lag or distributed lag can be determined. The method utilizes a variation of the generalized parameter plane technique as developed by D. D. S̆iljak and all results are in terms of two free system parameters. An example of a particular system with transport lag is analyzed. In the example, the system stability is analyzed with respect to the simultaneous variation of a controller gain and time constant."
"A (Liapunov-like) method is presented for obtaining upper bounds of the probabilityP_{x}{\\sup_{T\\geq t\\geq 0} V(X_{t})\\geq\\lambda}, wherex_{0} = xand xtis a Markov process with either discrete or continuous parameter, andV(\\cdot)is some function. Such estimates are the quantity of greatest interest in numerous tracking, control, and reliability studies. The method involves finding suitable (stochastic) Liapunov functions. The results are also results in (what may be termed) finite-time stochastic stability. The theorems are based on some theorems of Dynkin [1]. Several illustrative examples are given."
"The object of this paper is to outline a stability theory for input-output problems using functional methods. More particularly, the aim is to derive open loop conditions for the boundedness and continuity of feedback systems, without, at the beginning, placing restrictions on linearity or time invariance. It will be recalled that, in the special case of a linear time invariant feedback system, stability can be assessed using Nyquist's criterion; roughly speaking, stability depends on the mounts by which signals are amplified and delayed in flowing around the loop. An attempt is made here to show that similar considerations govern the behavior of feedback systems in general-that stability of nonlinear time-varying feedback systems can often be assessed from certain gross features of input-output behavior, which are related to amplification and delay. This paper is divided into two parts: Part I contains general theorems, free of restrictions on linearity or time invariance; Part II, which will appear in a later issue, contains applications to a loop with one nonlinear element. There are three main results in Part I, which follow the introduction of concepts of gain, conicity, positivity, and strong positivity: THEOREM 1: If the open loop gain is less than one, then the closed loop is bounded. THEOREM 2: If the open loop can be factored into two, suitably proportioned, conic relations, then the closed loop is bounded. THEOREM 3: If the open loop can be factored into two positive relations, one of which is strongly positive and has finite gain, then the closed loop is bounded. Results analogous to Theorems I-3, but with boundedness replaced by continuity, are also obtained."
"The sensitivity effect in the discrete-time modeling of continuous-time systems in digital identification schemes is considered as a function of the sampling intervalT. It is shown that the common assumption that the higher the sampling rate the better a discrete-time model represents a continuous-time system is not true in general. Rather, it is shown that an optimum sampling rate exists which minimizes the effect of estimation errors, Experimental results are presented which confirm the existence of this optimum sampling interval. Close confirmation is found between the theoretically predicted optimum sampling interval and the experimental results."
"A method is presented for the automatic identification of the unknown parameters of a class of nonlinear systems. The method is based on a modification of a steepest-descent type of adjustment technique which has proven useful in the identification of the unknown parameters of linear systems. Stability and convergence of the tracking model are assured by the proposed method."
"Trainable threshold logic elements have been used in the adaptive pattern recognition field to design linear classifiers for patterns of binary variables. This paper shows how one of these trainable linear devices can be used to implement a trainable non-linear function generator. A trainable function generator is similar in function to the spatial function generators found in analog computers except that the coefficients of its function are set in an iterative \"training\" procedure instead of being predetermined in the design stage. The primary application of the trainable function generator, to date, has been in the real-time design of nonlinear pattern classification devices, therefore, the use of the trainable function generator as a nonlinear discriminant function in pattern classification is emphasized. It is demonstrated that in the implementation of the trainable function generator it is highly advantageous to use what has been defined as a linearly independent code to represent the analog pattern parameters as binary patterns for the threshold element. When a linearly independent code is used, a linear threshold element in a trainable function generator can be used to \"learn\" nonlinear discriminant functions just as it is used to learn linear discriminant functions."
"In this paper, the effect of errors in the a priori information is studied when the sequential estimations are carried out on the states of linear systems disturbed by white noise. Four theorems are derived to describe the mutual relations among the three covariance matrices, namely the optimum, calculated, and actual covariance matrices, where the last two are based on the incorrect a priori information. By finding the upper bound for the variance of the actual estimate, performance of the Kalman filter is prescribed and the knowledge is utilized for design of the combined system of analog and digital filters. A phase-locked loop receiver is used as an example of analog filter and the considerable improvement on the estimation process is deduced by the theory and it is confirmed by the experimental simulation on the digital computer."
"The doublet pulsed feedback system consists of a doublet pulse modulator and a linear position follow-up system. The pulse modulator generates two pulses, an acceleration pulse, and a retarding pulse. The characteristics of the pulses are chosen so that minimum response time and stable operation are achieved. The phase plane method is used to analyze the doublet pulsed system. It is shown that an optimum adaptive contactor servo can be realized using the doublet pulsed system. The validity of approximating higher order transfer functions by a second-order function and an equivalent transportation lag is demonstrated. This enhances the application of the phase plane method to higher order systems. The analytical stipulations are proved experimentally. An experimental procedure to obtain a specified optimization of a high-order pulsed system through the doublet pulser is developed. The switching pattern and the necessary equations to design a doublet pulser are derived."
"Often in control design it is necessary to construct estimates of state variables which are not available by direct measurement. If a system is linear, its state vector can be approximately reconstructed by building an observer which is itself a linear system driven by the available outputs and inputs of the original system. The state vector of annth order system withmindependent outputs can be reconstructed with an observer of ordern-m. In this paper it is shown that the design of an observer for a system withMoutputs can be reduced to the design ofmseparate observers for single-output subsystems. This result is a consequence of a special canonical form developed in the paper for multiple-output systems. In the special case of reconstruction of a single linear functional of the unknown state vector, it is shown that a great reduction in observer complexity is often possible. Finally, the application of observers to control design is investigated. It is shown that an observer's estimate of the system state vector can be used in place of the actual state vector in linear or nonlinear feedback designs without loss of stability."
"For the free and forced motion of an asymptotically stable linear stationary discrete control system of orderk, Performance Indexes given by the general expressions\\Sigma\\min{n=0}\\max{\\infty} c(n)x_{(l)}(n)and\\Sigma\\min{n=0}\\max{\\infty} c(n)\\Delta^{m}x_{(l)}(n)wherec(n)is anyz-transformable function,x_{(l)}(n)is a vector whose elements are products of the state variables of the system in the form\\frac{l!}{a!b!...h!}x_{1}^{a}(n)x_{2}^{b}(n) ... x_{k}^{h}(n);a + b + ... + h = !and Δmis themth forward difference, can be computed from the system's parameter without obtaining an explicit solution of the response. This is achieved by the introduction of a matrixLformed in a certain manner from the system's matrixAand the introduction of a \"Matrixz-transform\"C[(L'+ I)]ofc(n)."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"A class of continuous time systems with part continuous, part discrete state is described by differential equations combined with multistable elements. Transitions of these elements between their discrete states are triggered by the continuous part of the state and not directly by inputs. The dynamic behavior of such systems, in response to piecewise continuous inputs, is defined under suitable assumptions. A general Mayer-type optimization problem is formulated. Conditions are given for a solution to be well-behaved, so that variational methods can be applied. Necessary conditions for optimality are stated and the jump conditions are interpreted geometrically."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"A quasi-optimum control law for minimum-time, bounded acceleration rendezvous in a plane is obtained. By ignoring the tangential velocity, a simplified problem is obtained for which there is a well-known solution. The tangential velocity is then accounted for, approximately, by use of the quasi-optimum control technique described by Friedland.1 Simulated trajectories show that the quasi-optimum control law gives excellent results."
"An algorithm is proposed for the design of \"on-line\" learning controllers to control a discrete stochastic plant. The subjective probabilities of applying control actions from a finite set of allowable actions using random strategy, after any plant-environment situation (called an \"event\") is observed, are modified through the algorithm. The subjective probability for the optimal action is proved to approach one with probability one for any observed event. The optimized performance index is the conditional expectation of the instantaneous performance evaluations with respect to the observed events and the allowable actions. The algorithm is described through two transformations, T1and T2. After the \"ordering transformation\" T1is applied on the estimates of the performance indexes of the allowable actions, the \"learning transformation\" T2modifies the subjective probabilities. The cases of discrete and continuous features are considered. In the latter, the Potential Function Method is employed. The algorithm is compared with a linear reinforcement scheme and computer simulation results are presented."
"The functional Lagrange expansion was introduced by the authors [1], [2] as a general analytical technique for handling a wide variety of control problems in nonlinear systems. It has been shown [1], [2] how a large class of such problems may be cast into a form requiring the solution of a nonlinear functional equation of the typey(t)=x(t)+\\epsilonF[y](t). The functional Lagrange expansion provides a functional series expansion of the solutiony(t)in powers of the expansion parameter ε. This paper presents generalizations of the functional Lagrange expansion to muitivariable nonlinear systems, i.e., state space, to functional equations in thes-domain, and to equations where the functionalF[y]is expressible as a sum of other functionals. The results are applied to specific control problems."
"An iterative equation based on dynamic programming for finding the most likely trajectory of a dynamic system observed through a noisy measurement system is presented; the procedure can be applied to nonlinear systems with non-Gaussian noise. It differs from the recently developed Bayesian estimation procedure in that the most likely estimate of the entire trajectory up to the present time, rather than of the present state only, is generated. It is shown that the two procedures in general yield different estimates of the present state; however, in the case of linear systems with Gaussian noise, both procedures reduce to the Kalman-Bucy filter. Illustrative examples are presented, and the present procedure is compared with the Bayesian procedure and with other estimation techniques in terms of computational requirements and applicability."
"The optimal open-loop controller for a linear system with some unknown parameters is determined. It is assumed that the unknown parameters do not vary during the process, and that their probability distribution function is given. The criterion for optimality is a quadratic function of the state and the input whoso expectation with respect to the unknown parameters has to be minimized. An explicit solution for the optimal controller is obtained by using the methods of the calculus of variations. Further, an alternate approach is presented which, for the problem solved, leads to the same optimal controller."
"The purpose of this paper is to present some recent developments in the field of deterministic optimal control. Topics dealing with advances in the theory, as well as with applications of the theory to problems of engineering interest, will be discussed. A selected list of references is also included."
"This paper attempts to summarize and place in perspective some of the recent contributions to stability theory. The major emphasis is on work which relates closely to applications in control, circuit theory, and aerospace systems. The frequency domain stability criteria for nonlinear and time-varying feedback loops are discussed in some detail. A large number of references describing both theoretical developments and applications are included."
"The object of this paper is to outline a stability theory based on functional methods. Part I of the paper was devoted to a general feedback configuration. Part II is devoted to a feedback system consisting of two elements, one of which is linear time-invariant, and the other nonlinear. An attempt is made to unify several stability conditions, including Popov's condition, into a single principle. This principle is based on the concepts of conicity and positivity, and provides a link with the notions of gain and phase shift of the linear theory. Part II draws on the (generalized) notion of a \"sector non-linearity.\" A nonlinearityNis said to be INSIDE THE SECTOR{\\alpha,\\beta}if it satisfies an inequality of the type\\langle(Nx-\\alphax)_{t}, (Nx-\\betax)_{t}\\rangle\\leq0. IfNis memoryless and is characterized by a graph in the plane, then this simply means that the graph lies inside a sector of the plane. However, the preceding definition extends the concept to include nonlinearities with memory. There are two main results. The first result, the CIRCLE THEOREM, asserts in part that: If the nonlinearity is inside a sector{\\alpha, \\beta}, and if the frequency response of the linear element avoids a \"critical region\" in the complex plane, then the closed loop is bounded; if\\alpha > 0then the critical region is a disk whose center is halfway between the points-1/\\alphaand-1/\\beta, and whose diameter is greater than the distance between these points. The second result is a method for taking into account the detailed properties of the nonlinearity to get improved stability conditions. This method involves the removal of a \"multiplier\" from the linear element. The frequency response of the linear element is modified by the removal, and, in effect, the size of the critical region is reduced. Several conditions, including Popov's condition, are derived by this method, under various restrictions on the nonlinearityN; the following cases are treated: (i)Nis instantaneously inside a sector{\\alpha, \\beta}. (ii)Nsatisfies (i) and is memoryless and time-invariant. (iii)Nsatisfies (ii) and has a restricted slope."
"The model reference adaptive control system has proved very popular on account of a ready-made, but heuristically based, rule for synthesizing the adaptive loops-the so-called \"M.I.T. rule.\" A theoretical analysis of loops so designed is generally very difficult, but analyses of quite simple systems do show that instability is possible for certain system inputs. An alternative synthesis based on Liapunov's second method is suggested here, and is applied to the redesign of adaptive loops considered by some other authors who have all used the M.I.T, rule. Derivatives of model-system error are sometimes required, but may be avoided in gain adjustment schemes if the system transfer function is \"positive real,\" using a lemma due to Kalman. This paper amplifies and extends the work of Butchart and Shackcloth reported at the IFAC (Teddington) Symposium, September, 1965."
"In many feedback control problems, dynamic specifications limit both the transient response and the frequency response. Usual techniques for analysis and design are concerned with only one of these specifications, and the other is checked as often as necessary. Mitrovic's method normally defines the roots of the characteristic equation, and design procedures adjust the locations of the roots. In this paper it is shown that the Mitrovic equations are readily solved to evaluate the closed loop frequency response with a simple graphical construction. Thus, on a single plot both the roots of the characteristic equation and the frequency response are available. In some problems bandwidth is a specific design restriction. Equations for loci of constant bandwidth are derived and the use of these loci in conjunction with the root locations and frequency response is illustrated."
"The problem of compensating a fourth-order, lightly-damped linear feedback system by means of half-cycle Posicast [1] is examined and the results of analog computer simulations are shown. Transient and frequency responses are presented. Although half-cycle Posicast is ideally suited for driving a second-order system, the resulting behavior of the fourth-order system is seen to be quite good with half-cycle Posicast bringing about a fast step response with almost no ripple and eliminating completely any resonant peaking in the frequency response. The sensitivity of behavior to variations in system parameters is examined. Also the system is tested with a quasi-random input signal. In both cases, results are favorable."
"Graph techniques together with the nonharmonic series representation of stationary Gaussian signals can be used in the analysis of a wide class of nonlinear systems. This point is illustrated by the derivation of the moments of a nenlinear functional of a Gaussian signal. A graphical method is developed for the derivation of the time average of products of functions of a stationary Gaussian signal without resort to any probability theory considerations. Consequently, the derivation of the moments of the functional reduces to a graph enumeration procedure and the computation of a finite number of integrals."
"In the last few years, several sufficient conditions have been found for establishing the asymptotic stability in the large of the null solution of feedback systems containing a single non-linearity. The experiments reported in this paper show that, if these sufficient conditions are violated, in certain cases instability occurs in the form of oscillations. These experiments not only establish a new class of oscillators but they also constitute counterexamples to Aizerman's conjecture. An explanation of the oscillations is proposed which uses harmonic linearization."
"This paper presents an algorithm for obtaining a state representation for linear, time-invariant, multiple-input, multiple-output, differential systems, of the formL(p)y = M(p)u."
"Then-observability problem is considered for linear dynamical systems. The discussion of the problem is divided into two sections: the first covers linear nonstationary continuous time systems and the second covers discrete time systems. A system is calledn-observable at timet', if the state can be reconstructed from n samples of the output history and from the input over this time interval. The first result gives a necessary and sufficient condition for a linear nonstationary continuous system to ben-observable at timet'. When this condition is satisfied, a formula is given by which the state att'can be calculated from a knowledge of the system's output at n points in its history and from the system's input over this period of history. Although the theorem does provide a test forn-observability att', this test is not easily applied. To remedy this, further results relate this test to a more easily applied test for observability. These theorems connect the necessary and sufficient condition forn- observability with Kalman's necessary and sufficient condition for observability. The corresponding results for linear stationary continuous systems are given. For discrete time systems, the notation is purposely kept the same as for continuous time systems. In this way, the similarity of the relations of discrete to continuous systems is more obvious. Then-observability problem for discrete nonstationary systems is more obvious. Then-observability problem for discrete non-stationary systems is discussed, and a necessary and sufficient condition forn-observability is derived. Again, the corresponding results for stationary systems are given. Finally, the use of state reconstruction in the synthesis of feedback controllers is discussed. This discussion is limited to linear stationary continuous time system. An example is included to clarify the details."
"Linear optimal control techniques are used as a synthesis tool to conceptually design a control system for the Short Range Station Keeping (SRSK) task of a large assault helicopter. It is shown that linear optimal theory can be naturally applied to this problem because of the requirements for the closed-loop response of the system, and can be easily applied even though the vehicle is dynamically complex, requiring simultaneous inputs from more than one controller. The closed-loop dynamics are analyzed using the root square locus expression, and the feedback control law is obtained from the Riccati equation. Several designs are analyzed from a practical point of view, and a comparison is made of an optimal and a conventional design. When properly used, linear optimal control techniques may rapidly yield an excellent control system design."
"This paper discusses a global search of a multimodal noisy performance surface using a probabilistic automaton as a model. The various regions are searched in accordance with probabilities assigned on the basis of past relative performances. The automaton has a variable structure so that the system is able to adjust its search probabilities continuously, and linear reinforcement is used as an averaging technique. The chief advantages of this procedure are the variable search probabilities and the simplicity of implementing the search (minimum amount of computations). The procedure is extended to a multidimensional case and examples are shown."
"The design, theory, and simulation are described for a new adaptive roll autopilot in a typical air-to-air cruciform interceptor missile with a range of 55.4 to 1 in aileron-moment effectiveness. The adaptive loop injects a sinusoidal dither signal (at 3.5 c/s) into the main roll loop, measures the in-phase component of the return signal (not its amplitude, as in the Smyth [1], [2] system), and adjusts the gain of a multiplier in the main roll loop. The system maintains unity loop gain of the roll loop at the dither frequency without cross-coupling effects, and is believed to have good inherent rejection of noise. The analysis of the system is satisfactory for preliminary design, but stability limits of the adaptive loop must be tested by simulation. Successful simulation results are presented for flights at three altitudes with different Mach histories. This type of system appears to be practical for the roll autopilot of an interceptor missile with tail control, particularly if ground-launched. The roll multiplier gain setting can be used to adjust analogous gains in the pitch and yaw autopliots. Further analysis of stability and noise rejection would be desirable."
"This paper uses the theory of optimal control to design an optimal linear feedback system which regulates the position and velocity of every vehicle in a densely packed string of high-speed moving vehicles. In addition to the general theoretical formulation and solution of the optimization problem, analog computer simulation results are presented for the case of a string of three vehicles."
"This paper considers the optimal control problem of discrete linear systems with essentially quadratic cost functionals. Both closed target set and free endpoint problems are considered. Also, both bounded and unbounded controllers are considered. It is shown that Pontryagin's maximum principle is not only necessary but also sufficient for a number of cases. The existence and the uniqueness of the optimal controller are proved. This optimal control problem of discrete systems has been studied by many people. However, most of the previous results are concerned with the case of unbounded controllers. This paper presents a more unified method of studying such problems in the sense that basically the same geometrical approach is applied to both bounded and unbounded controllers."
"In a given system which is subject to the worst bounded disturbance that maximizes a chosen performance index, the best parameters can be so determined that the same performance index is minimized. The disturbance, which is assumed deterministic and bounded, acts only for some fixed time, known a priori. The Maximum Principle is applied in the determination of the worst disturbance [1]. An algorithm which yields the worst disturbance and the best parameters is developed by employing in the parameter optimization an approximation technique based on the steepest descent. Computational results are presented, and the existence of the solution is discussed."
"In this paper, signals in(L)_{2}(- \\infty, t], a subspace of the space of square integrable signals defined on(- \\infty, t], are approximated by signals in(L)_{2}^{1}(- \\infty, t], the one-dimensional subspace of(L)_{2}(- \\infty, t]spanned by the first function from the set of reversed time Laguerre functions. A system mapping(L)_{2}(- \\infty, t]into itself is associated with a system mapping(L)_{2}^{1}(- \\infty t]into itself; the latter system is characterized by a gain-exponential describing function. This type of describing function is developed as an analysis tool for studying the transient response of a large class of nonlinear feedback systems. The contraction-mapping fixed-point theorem is used to develop conditions for the existence of a solution prior to the use of the exponential describing function to obtain an approximate solution."
"The purpose of this paper is to establish the stability of single-loop feedback systems with one differentiable nonlinear element. In those cases where the Popov criterion fails to guarantee stability for the entire sector predicted by Aizerman's conjecture, new results can be obtained by restricting the slope of the nonlinear function. A new frequency domain stability criterion is obtained which, like the Popov criterion, has only one unknown parameter. Thus, a simple graphical interpretation is possible. Examples are given which show a considerable improvement over the Popov criterion."
"Just as minimization of quadratic performance criteria leads to linear feedback, so it is shown here that minimization of integrals containing quartic or hexadic terms in the state variables leads, respectively, to cubic or quintic feedback. This idea is extended to the minimization of integrals of arbitrarily higher order combinations of the state variables, which is desirable in order to impose inequality constraints upon the state variables. Such laws are shown to be adaptive to actuator saturation (including even bang-bang operation). These results are proved by exhibiting a closed-form solution of the corresponding Hamilton-Jacobi equation, which also provides a globally valid Liapunov function. Prior results of Kalman, Haussler, and Rekasius for linear plants appear as special cases. A new constructive procedure for computing the coefficients of the higher-order feedback terms is also presented, together with a numerical application which illustrates remarkable effectiveness in the reduction of overshoots as compared to optimal linear control."
"An algorithm for the numerical solution of optimal control problems is developed which is based on a combination of the direct and indirect approaches. The method presented is similar to the indirect approach in that the known and iteratively improved unknown initial values are used in the integration of the system and Euler-Lagrange differential equations. However, instead of matching end conditions, as is done in the classical approach, the performance function is considered to be a function of the unknown initial values and optimized by a gradient technique, as is done in the direct approach. Since only terminal values are stored, the method can be useful in digital or hybrid controllers of limited memory. It is shown that it is sufficient to search for the intersection of a sphere with a line in the initial condition space. As a consequence, the method is not dependent on a good initial estimate of the initial values."
"The use of a low-order model to determine the approximate time-optimal switching function for a given plant has been experimentally investigated. This paper utilizes Liapunov's second method to determine asymptotic stability in the large or, in some cases, boundedness of the states of these predictive or quasi-time-optimal control systems. The basic model transfer function isK/s (Ts+1) (K, T > 0), since previous results indicated its versatility for controlling plants of various forms. Plants considered are second-order, both linear and nonlinear, and higher order linear plants. Results show that systems with stable, controllable second-order plants will be asymptotically stable in the large, and systems with linear controllable high-order plants with no more than two free integrations will have ultimately bounded error and error rate. Examples are presented to illustrate the results."
"A suboptimal solution of the linear regulator problem which affords some computational simplicity over the optimal solution is presented. A linear first-order matrix differential equation whose solution gives the value of the performance index for the sub-optimal control is then derived. A simple example is included to illustrate the method, and a comparison with optimal performance is made. The advantages and disadvantages of the technique are discussed, and problem areas for future study are indicated."
"This paper consists of two main parts. The first part considers the sensitivity analysis of a linear time-invariant multivariable (multiple input-output) system represented by a system of first-order differential equations. Procedures which can be easily programmed on a digital computer are presented for the determination of: (1) the system transfer-function matrix; (2) sensitivity coefficients for the transfer-function matrix in terms of the system parameters. The second part contains a simple procedure for the synthesis of a linear single-variable (single input-output) system for specified characteristic roots. This is also shown to be a general procedure for the reduction of a system to (phase-variable) canonical form. The procedures of Part I and Part II are then applied to the synthesis of a single-variable system for insensitivity to parameter changes."
"A detailed proof is presented in this paper for the existence and uniqueness theorem of the Riccati equation which arises in the solution of optimal linear regulator problems involving infinite dimensional (Hilbert space) systems. The key role played by the Riccati equation in such infinite dimensional regulator problems is also indicated."
"An iterative method is proposed for the identification of nonlinear systems from samples of inputs and outputs in the presence of noise. The model used for the identification consists of a no-memory gain (of an assumed polynomial form) followed by a linear discrete system. The parameters of the pulse transfer function of the linear system and the coefficients of the polynomial non-linearity are alternately adjusted to minimize a mean square error criterion. Digital computer simulations are included to demonstrate the feasibility of the technique."
"This paper deals with the problem of evaluating the extent to which system parameters may be changed and still guarantee that system performance will remain within a specified limit. Particular attention is given to linear systems with quadratic performance indices. A sampled data system is analyzed by way of example."
"An important first step in the study of system sensitivity is the choice of a system disturbance measure. In an earlier paper the general aspects of this problem were discussed. The present paper extends and refines in several ways the previous development. The use of geometric methods in function spaces is emphasized."
"An explicit method is presented to calculate the closed-loop gains of a two-loop linear feedback system. These gains define the stability boundary and phase margin boundaries of interest. The method is amenable to digital computer computation and, since previous \"loop-by-loop' techniques have been very time consuming, the method presented here is a time-saving technique."
"The optimal filtering equations, as derived by Kalman [1], [2], require the specification of a number of models for a given application. This paper concerns itself with the effect of errors in the assumed models on the filter response. The types of errors considered are those in the covariance of the initial state vector, the covariance of the stochastic inputs to the system, and the covariance of the uncorrelated measurement noise. Presented here is a derivation of a recursive equation for the actual covariance matrix of the estimation error when the filter design is based upon erroneous models. The derived equation can also be used to obtain the covariance matrix of the estimation error when the optimal filter gains are approximated by simple functions of time to be used in a real-time filtering application. A numerical example illustrates the use of the derived equations."
"The identification of processes with time-delays is often difficult when conventional techniques are used. However, if shift matrices are used the solution becomes less difficult. Shift matrices and their constructions are discussed in this paper."
"This paper compares the relative merits (in the mean-square sense) of the zero-order hold, the exponential hold, and the polygonal hold vs. a linear nonrealizable interpolation procedure. This comparison is done for three sampling schemes; periodic sampling, periodic sampling with skips, and Poisson sampling. General expressions for the mean-square error are given in terms of the second-order statistics of the weakly stationary sampled process and in terms of the statistics associated with the sampling procedure. For purposes of illustration, the sampled process is assumed to be either a wide-sense Markov process or a band-limited white noise process; the results obtained for these cases are plotted and lead to simple conclusions which are of interest in the theory of interpolation."
"A method of describing a system in parameter space is presented in this paper. This method can be applied to the analysis and design of high-order control systems with multiple variable or adjustable parameters."
"The application of gradient methods in parameter optimization of control systems requires generation of the first- and second-order sensitivity functions. In this paper the problem of simultaneous generation of the second-order sensitivity functions is studied. It is shown that for a class of linear multi-loop control systems, the simultaneous generation of all necessary sensitivity functions requires only two additional sensitivity models whose structures are identical to that of the system considered."
"This paper presents a method for minimizing the sensitivity to parameter variations in linear control systems under the constraint that the system has a desired degree of relative stability. In the proposed procedure, an integral is established as an index of sensitivity. The integral is then minimized in the parameter plane wherein all the roots of the characteristic equation are placed in evidence. This enables the transient response requirements to be incorporated in the minimization of the sensitivity index, and thus the sensitivity and the system response characteristics can be considered simultaneously in control system design. The method is illustrated by examples."
"An improved sufficient condition for asymptotic stability developed for the monotone nonlinearity isRe [Z(j\\omega) (G(j\\omega) + 1/k_{2})]orRe [Z(j\\omega,) \\bar(G(j\\omega) + 1/k_{2})] \\geq 0whereZ(s)=1+\\alphas+Y(s)and\\int\\min{0}\\max{\\infty}|y(t)|dt<1. Examples of allowedZ(s)functions are considered which show that the angle ofG(j\\omega) +1/k_{2}is permitted to take on both positive and negative values outside the\\pm90\\degband. The approach used in deriving the above results is a general one which reduces the problem of obtaining sufficient conditions for asymptotic stability to one of obtaining a bound for a cross-correlation functionR(T)in terms ofR(O). As an example, a sufficient condition for asymptotic stability is developed for a continuous nonlinearity having a monotone bound which appears to have considerable practical application."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"A linear mathematical model of a ship moving at constant speed along a straight track is derived by perturbation technique. The model is totally specified by six dimensionless coefficients which can be obtained from tank tests. Following derivation of the model, a specific example is made of the minesweeper, an unstable open-loop system. A control loop is designed, and simulated responses are presented."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"A solution of the minimum time and minimum fuel problems for pulse frequency modulated systems is presented. The derivation of the optimal control is done by a heuristic argument. The optimal controller is found to be bang-bang with a dead zone in both cases. Then the optimal policies are derived by considering the dynamic properties of such systems. A specific second-order example is presented to show the application of the method."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Necessary conditions to be satisfied if the control of a system with time-varying transport lags is to be optimal, are derived. These correspond to the Euler-Lagrange equations, the first corner condition, and the transversality condition of the calculus of variations. The systems considered can be nonlinear, have a multivariable control, and contain a number of different transport lags. The states and controls of the system are assumed to be unbounded."
"The definition of sets of Euler angles is discussed and a useful tool for treating the mathematics associated with Euler angles is illustrated. Restricting attention to right-handed coordinate systems and positive rotations, twelve distinct but equivalent sets of Euler angles are partitioned into two subsets. The method of determining a set of orthogonal infinitesimal rotations equivalent to nonorthogonal infinitesimal increments on a set of Euler angles is illustrated. It is shown that the same solution yields expressions for the angular velocities of the final coordinate system relative to the reference coordinate system in terms of derivatives of the Euler angles. The ease with which the infinitesimal increments of one Euler set in terms of the increments of another equivalent Euler set can be determined by the symbolic technique is illustrated. This technique offers a systematic approach to error analysis of sequences of rotations."
"The purpose of this paper is to investigate the uniqueness of the extremal controls, i.e., the controls which satisfy the necessary conditions provided by the maximum principle, for a class of minimum fuel problems pertaining to the control of single input, linear, time-invariant systems. Sufficient conditions for a fuel-optimal problem to be normal are given; then it is shown that the normal extremal controls can be unique under suitable assumptions."
"The essential problem in designing optimal control systems with inaccessible state variables is one of estimation. In general, all the state variables must be estimated from noisy incomplete data. The author has extended the previously published results to cases where the measurements might be a mixture of both continuous and sampled data."
"A study is made on the optimization aspect of marine propulsion in the light of optimum control theory for distributed parameter systems. In particular, the problem of determining the motion of a thin hydrofoil or a \"thin fish\" to maximize the average thrust in the presence of instantaneous or average power limitation constraint is considered. Solutions are obtained for the case of an oscillating hydrofoil having a finite number of spatial harmonics. Numerical results are presented for the special case of a flat oscillating hydrofoil. Their meaning is interpreted from the physical standpoint."
"A method to synthesize the space dependent transfer functions of a class of dynamic systems from the frequency response data is presented. The systems that give rise to space dependent transfer functions are those which may be represented by partial differential equations in which the space and time dependences of the dependent variables are not separable. The method consists of representing the system transfer function as a series of suitable space modes with frequency dependent coefficients. The resulting synthesis procedure is straightforward and is applicable to many practical cases of interest. The method is applicable to both minimum and nonminimum phase transfer functions."
"Methods for employing a new transform technique for the design of feedback control systems for linear, time-varying, discrete-time systems are presented. Assuming that the operation of a plant can be characterized by anN\\timesNmatrixP, the transform technique, is based on the decomposition ofPin the formP = (Y \\Delta f)\\LambdaX^{T}, where XTis anN\\timesNmatrix which acts as a direct transform, Λ is anN\\timesNdiagonal matrix which acts as a transfer function, and (Y \\Delta f) is anN\\timesNmatrix which acts as an inverse transform. System matricesGandH, for the cascade and feedback parts of a compensation system, are selected through a consideration of the desired closed loop system response and the desired closed loop system sensitivity to changes in plant parameters. It is shown that the transform technique allows this design to be carried out with relatively straightforward calculations which yield insight into system behavior at each stage. Use of this design procedure is illustrated with a significant example"
"It is known that jump resonance can occur in a non-linear control system if the vector locus of the linear part passes through a certain region which depends upon the nonlinear part only. This paper is concerned with further investigations of the boundary curves of such regions. It is revealed that by normalizing the non-linear characteristic and using the inverse-vector plane, the region occupied by the boundary curve can be localized in the domain near the origin. It is also revealed that there exists a limit to boundary curves under certain conditions. For nonlinearities written by nondecreasing functions, idealized saturation and dead zone have a limit boundary curve. Boundary curves for typical nonlinearities are given. Conditions where jump resonance occurs in the second-order servo system with idealized saturation are also investigated."
"The purpose of this paper is to describe certain techniques which have proved useful in the systems analysis of large scale economic systems. A brief historical description of efforts to apply feedback control theory to management and economic systems is presented, which indicates the need for aggregation as a means of reducing the number of system variables to be considered. A transfer function is derived which, for two cases of practical interest, yields a simplified aggregate representation of the behavior ofnsystem microunits. Accuracy of the aggregate transfer function representation is discussed as a function ofnand of the bandwidth of input signals. Applications of the method are demonstrated with respect to problems arising in a systems analysis of the U. S. plywood industry."
"A class of stochastic dynamic systems is considered in which the setSof allowable states, the setQof all the inputs, and the setOof the outputs are all finite. For the subclass of the systems in which the state can be exactly measured, a method is given to find the optimal control, so as to optimize a suitable criterion function. The set of probabilitiesProb(q(t) = q_{k}/s(t) =s_{j}), q_{k} \\in Q, s_{j} \\in S, whereq(t)ands(t)are the input and state at timet, respectively, plays the role of control. The determination of the optimal control involves only a solution of a set ofNdifference equations, whereNis the total number of states. These results will be extended for systems in which the measured output is noisy. In this case, by control one means the set of probabilities Prob(q(t) = q_{k}/y(1),... , Y(t)), q_{k} \\in Qwherey(t)is the measured output at timet. These probabilities are found to be products of the current estimate of the state of the systems(t), based on all the available measurements with certain precomputable constants. These results are applied to the analysis of time-sharing computer systems like project MAC, and demonstrate how to choose an optimal queue discipline among the various available queue disciplines for scheduling the various users."
"It is proved that if the input of a nonlinear feedback sytem and its first derivative are bounded, satisfaction of the V. M. Popov Theorem implies that the output is also bounded."
"This paper considers the problem of linear signal estimation when the time-discrete data consists of signal plus additive independent noise. The signal probability distributions are completely unknown but the noise mean and covariance properties are known. The paper considers two main problems. The first is the definition of an adaptive procedure for filtering. The second is the analysis of the procedure for the special case of stationary Gaussian data with zero mean and square integrable spectral density. It is believed that the procedure defined has a wider applicability than other methods and that the analytical approach is entirely new."
"This paper presents a solution to the problem of the control of a class of linear distributed systems. The system is described by a linear operator acting on functions of time and distance. It is shown that if the operator separates in time and distance and the distance operator has a real discrete spectrum (self-adjoint and completely continuous), the operator can be represented by an infinite diagonal matrix in which the entries are functions of the Laplace transform variables. In particular, if the problem stems from separable partial differential equations, the entries are rational ratios of polynomials ofs. The system can be compensated with a series of discrete conventional filters using techniques of conventional lumped, single loop control system design. To implement the control system, the assumption is made that the distance dependent part of the output and forcing functions have negligible eigenfunction content beyond theNth one. If this assumption holds,Nsensors,Nfilters, andNmanipulators, plus 2 matrix multipliers andNsubtractors provide a synthesis of the feedback control system. An illustrative numerical example is given."
"The Maximum Principle of Pontryagin is used to develop an iterative procedure for computing the fuel-optimal control which steers the state of a linear constant plant from some initial state to a target hypersphere, centered at the origin of the state space, in fixed time. The necessary conditions of the Maximum Principle are used to define a two point boundary value problem and this problem is in turn reduced to that of inverting a function which maps the final boundary conditions into the state space. It is shown that the mapping is continuously differentiable to all orders almost everywhere and that a corresponding linearized map has an inverse. The existence of the linearized inverse is used to establish an iterative procedure which is essentially a modified Newton's method. It is shown that the procedure converges rapidly (using a known \"step-size\") when the current guess is \"close\" and bounds are obtained on the behavior of the error sequence for the case when the guess is not close. Finally, some experimental results are reported which illustrate the usefulness of the technique."
"Bulk GaAs was operated simultaneously as a microwave amplifier, mixer, and oscillator under cw conditions. This was achieved by biasing the sample at post-threshold conditions, i.e., beyond the bias at which the sample broke into Gunn-type oscillations. It was found that even under these post-threshold conditions, wherein the device was oscillating at a certain frequency, the device simultaneously had the properties of a linear active element capable of mixing and amplification at other frequencies. The frequencies at which the device exhibited simultaneous amplification, mixing, and oscillation were not harmonically related. These frequencies were determined jointly by semiconductor and microwave circuits."
"Six classes of solid-state microwave detectors are compared in this paper. The primary criteria for comparison are sensitivity, frequency response, and dynamic range. Other performance criteria which are less easily characterized by a single numerical quantity, are also considered; examples of these are burnout and ease of impedance match."
"Considerable interest has recently been shown in the use of the epitaxial Schottky barrier (ESBAR) diode as a microwave frequent y down-converter. For the first time it has become possible to surpass the performance of the redoubtable point-contact diodes, through the use of photo resist techniques to achieve small areas and epitaxial material to achieve low series resistance . The new diodes are also more reproducible, have much lower reverse current leakage, lower l/f noise, and can be designed for much higher dynamic range . Herein we calculate that they should exhibit overall calculated noise figures as low as 3 dB at X-band when the image is short-circuited and the following i-f amplifier has a 2 db noise figure."
"Intermodulation is one of the most serious forms of spurious response in superheterodyne receivers. This type of interference cannot be completely eliminated by narrow band filters. Major improvements in receiver performance can be made only by improving and making more effective use of the mixing element."
"Recently there have been numerous reports of coherent microwave generation from p-n junction structures when biased into the avalanche region and situated in a suitable circuit environment. However, little quantitative data on the performance of these devices in various circuit configurations have been available . Further, nothing has been presented concerning their application to specific system problems; nor has any data regarding their reliability been documented to date."
"This paper has a three-fold purpose:"
"Operating instability and spurious oscillations are principal factors preventing widespread success with varactor frequency multipliers. This paper outlines a theory of multiplier instability which relates universal characteristics of non-linear resonant circuits to the observed behavior of varactor multipliers and multiplier chains. Design criteria and test methods for stable multipliers are developed; their validity is supported by data on multipliers shown to be stable over wide variations in environment, drive level and load."
"Oscillators and harmonic generators are inherently nonlinear. Their responses to noisy perturbations are more characteristic of the modulation process than of linear superposition. It is comnonly found that noise is present as modulation sidebands with strong correlation between noise components on opposite sides of the carrier."
"An ultra-low-noise, tunable s-band amplifier which uses a travelling-wave maser (TWM) as the second stage has been developed. The amplifier is made up of a cooled, tunable low-noise s-band varactor up-converter, a fixed-tuned, high-gain, C-band TWM, and an uncooled, tunable varactor down-converter connected in cascade. This receiver configuration has the advantage of combining the large tuning range capability of a parametric up-converter with the ultra-low noise temperature and unconditional stability of a maser."
"This paper considers a novel 9 GHz microwave carrier system which can sample a baseband analog input signal at a 200 MHz rate and encode into Gray Code 6-bit words (64 levels), giving a bit rate of 1200 megabits/second. This performance is obtained through the use of a system employing the microwave counterpart of a serial type gray coder first described by B. D. Smith. In this new system the baseband analog signal amplitude is replaced by microwave carrier amplitude, while base-band analog signal polarity is replaced by microwave carrier phase."
"In most microwave systems signals are converted from one frequency to another -- usually from microwave to conventional intermediate frequencies from 30 - 200 MHz. However, there is a large class of systems which employ microwave translators which convert from one microwave frequency to another. This paper will deal with microwave frequency translators in which the bandwidth of these signals is large--usually greater than an octave and up to a decade."
"Under certain conditions an oscillator can lock to and track an external driving signal whose frequency is near the free-running frequency of the oscillator and whose amplitude is considerably less than the oscillator output amplitude; this property has led to speculation whether the locked oscillator can serve as an amplifier for angle-modulated signals. We have conducted experimental and theoretical investigations in order to clearly define what the conditions are which would allow such an application. the investigations have included steady-state locking performance, dynamic amplifier response, and noise behavior of the locked oscillators. The experiments were performed on tunnel-diode oscillators at x-band. The theory is valid for a wide number of oscillator types."
"The function of the rf drive system for the Stanford Two-Mile Linear Accelerator is to supply rf drive power at 2856 MHz to an array of 240 high power (24 mw ) klystron amplifiers and to assure that the correct phase relationship between each of these drive signals and the electron bunches in the accelerator is preserved over a tuning range of /spl plusmn/0.1 mhz. This paper gives an overall description of the system which fulfills these requirements, and discusses some of the microwave engineering and measurement problems encountered in its design."
"In this invited paper the author gives an overview of microwave applications of superconductivity. For many years after the discovery of superconductivity in 1911, the phenomenon remained largely a laboratory curiosity. For over 40 years physicists worked with only moderate success to gain a theoretical uncle rstanding of superconductivity. In recent years , however, the situation has ch~nged rapidly. An adequate theory has now been developed (the BCS theory), and superconductivity has become a useful tool in many fields of pure and applied research. As an outstanding example, superconducting magnets are now available commercially which can generate dc fields up to 100 kilogauss."
"Electrical phase length measurements and adjustments on long wave guide or coaxial feed lines are necessary sometimes in antenna arrays and particle accelerators. Most of the commonly used phase length measurements schemes are of a transmission or reflection type and may use a modulated signal. Transmission methods usually require a precision reference length to reach both ends of the network, while reflection methods require only a stable reflector, but inherently cannot resolve 180/spl deg/ /spl oslash/ differences."
"Filters based on the elliptic-function or Cauer-parameter type of response give rapid cut-off compared with filter responses of Chebychev or Butterworth types which have no attenuation poles at finite frequencies. The response of a distributed band-stop filter consisting of commensurate lengths of transmission line, based on a two-pole lumped element prototype, is shown in Fig. 1 as an example of the type of response desired."
"Rectangular waveguides with a full-height dielectric slab are frequently used in isolators and phase shifters. Numerical solutions to the fields have been obtained for the slab centrally located. It is found that with increasing frequency the power flow is more and more confined to the dielectric slab. The electric field distribution is plotted with frequency as a parameter. According to a suggestion by H. Seidel (US Patent No. 2,963,661) this effect can be used to separate frequencies. Coupling apertures in the empty part of the guide will couple only at low frequencies; however, a sharp cutoff cannot be expected."
"An important aspect of TEM quarter-wave network synthesis and design is the multiplicity of physical configurations that give identical response characteristics. Different network configurations are often, required to realize the same basic response for moderate changes in design parameters because of the small range of realizable impedance values. In most design procedures, practical circuit element values are obtained by application of suitable equivalent circuit relationships. In a previous paper a systematic method of obtaining equivalent circuits using transformations of the static capacitance matrix of a parallel coupled line array was introduced and applied to the exact design of interdigital bandpass filters. These transformations can also be used to give a simple physical interpretation to familiar transmission line identities and can be applied to the design of many TEM microwave devices."
"The design of input and output matching networks for transistor microwave frequency amplifiers has been optimized by the use of an efficient computer program. Power amplifiers capable of 2.5 watts peak power output with a 400 MHz bandwidth at 2.25 GHz have been fabricated. The matching network problem was reduced to an equivalent non-linear programming problem by considering the filter elements as coordinates in an N-dimensional vector space. The optimal solution point in the vector space was found by the use of a \"pattern search\" routine which utilized randomly chosen orthogonal transformations of the search pattern to minimize an objective function. In this case, a suitable objective function was chosen to be the area under the curve of reflection coefficient versus frequency for the filter input. By use of multiple data input as many as six designs have been achieved in less than nine minutes on the 7044 computer."
"In some applications of diode switches, such as in a switch- protected RADAR receiver, high speed switching is required in conjunction with a high degree of suppression of switching transients appearing at the rf terminals of the switch. The minimum switching time of a series or shunt diode switch is derived to be 1.24/ f/sub o/, where f/sub o/ is the rf frequency being switched. The suppression of switching transients is derived, and it is found that suppression can be increased at the cost of increased filter complexity and switching time above the theoretical minimum. An example is presented utilizing the derived relationships."
"In the past, coupled-transmission-line directional couplers have been designed with coupled lines of equal characteristic impedances. These couplers are used in many applications: power samplers, reflectometers, directional detectors, directional filters, and multiplexer are several examples. In this paper a new class of coupled-transmission-line directional couplers, called nonsymmetrical directional couplers, is described. In contrast to conventional directional couplers, nonsymmetrical directional couplers use coupled lines of unequal characteristic impedances. The nomenclature \"nonsymmetrical directional coupler\" pertains to the side-by-side asymmetry of the directional couplers.It should not be confused with cascaded asymmetrical or cascaded symmetrical directional couplers, which use coupled lines of equal characteristic impedances and which have end-to-end asymmetry or symmetry, respectivey."
"It is presently possible to obtain multi-octave bandwidth from a single coupler which employs several cascaded quarter-wavelength sections of uniformly-coupled line. A comprehensive bibliography covering progress in this field may be found in Reference 1. Unfortunately, the physical junctions between various quarter-wave sections in the usually employed TEM conductor geometries contribute reactive discontinuities which significantly degrade coupler directivity."
"There are two major, or classical, categories of integrated circuits based on the techniques employed: film circuits and semiconductor monolithic circuits. With the film technique one or more elements and/or components are deposited by one of several methods on a passive substrate, e. g., glass or ceramic, to form resistors, capacitors and electrical interconnections. Active elements, i. e., transistors and diodes, must be affixed separately to metallic connectors on the substrate. In the semiconductor monolithic approach the entire circuit containing resistors, capacitors, diodes and transistors is fabricated within a solid block of semiconductor material by using selected diffusion techniques. The advantage of the monolithic circuit, that of having all of the circuit elements as an integral part of the structure, is offset to some extent by the somewhat poorer characteristics of the resistors and capacitors relative to their film counterparts. Both types of integrated circuits have been used in a variety of applications, both digital and analog. Film circuits generally have been developed for specific needs by systems manufacturers, whereas monolithic circuits have been made available by a number of semiconductor device manufacturers throughout the world."
"The basic micro strip, or non-symmetrical stripline geometry, has been investigated as a transmission line medium, and a number of types of transmission line components have been built utilizing microstrip construction. Microstrip has found only sporadic applications, however, as designers generally chose the more shielded and lower loss stripline, coaxial or waveguide modes of propagation, with the availability of microwave transistors and other semiconductor devices usable well into the microwave frequency range, the microstrip transmission line was reevaluated because of its compatibility with the fabrication and installation of passive components and active devices on the same substrate with the transmission line. Some of the ceramic materials appear particularly attractive as a substrate from performance and economic standpoints. This paper covers some of the characteristics of microstrip transmission lines on homogeneous ceramic dielectric substrates and on the two dielectric substrate as is the case in glazed ceramics, some of the considerations in component and circuit design utilizing this medium will be discussed along with some examples of incorporating semiconductor devices with ceramic microstrip components to accomplish high performance microwave hybrid integrated circuitry."
"A microwave tunnel diode amplifier usually requires both a stabilizing network and one or more reactive tuning elements associated with the tunnel diode. The stabilizing network insures satisfaction of the appropriate stability criteria governing the given amplifier configuration at all frequencies within the active frequency range of the tunnel diode (dc to resistive cutoff frequency) and, in particular, those outside the operating band. Such networks generally take the form of band rejection filters which resistively terminate the diode outside the operating band and appear essentially reactive within it. The tuning element usually consists of a shunt inductor to resonate the generally capacitive parasitic reactance of the diode at the center frequency of the amplifier."
"Microwave integrated circuits are quickly becoming a reality. The initial results of this work are similar to the path followed by low frequency conventional microelectronics, that is, the first emerging of useable hybrid integrated circuits followed by monolithic circuits. Hybrid, in the case of microwave circuit, refers to the use of chips of silicon containing the active devices mounted in a microwave cavity or stripline with ceramic or an equivalent material used as the dielectric."
"This paper discusses the operation of fast, moderate power microwave switches obtained through the utilization of PIN diodes."
"This paper describes the approaches used and the results obtained in building integrated balanced microwave mixers at S- and X-band. It will describe the techniques used to make hybrid integrated circuits using \"bilithic\" Schottky diodes as the mixer diodes and discuss the merits of several mixer circuits."
"Following a brief resume of general microwave research in British Universities, topics in guided wave propagation will be discussed. These will include studies of both uniform and periodic inhomogeneously-filled waveguides containing either dielectric or ferrite, and homogeneously-filled waveguides of arbitrary cross-section. Recent theoretical and experimental results obtained for backward-wave uniform inhomogeneous structures will be presented, together with a description of their applications in delay lines for pulse-compression RADAR. A finite-difference technique for the determination of the propagation coefficient of rectangualr waveguide containing longitudinally-magnetized ferrite will be described, the technique being applied to ferrite phase-shifter configurations. Another finite-difference technique developed by J. B. Davies of Sheffield treats waveguides of arbitrary cross-section; this technique and its applications will also be discussed."
"The present status of microwave research at Japanese Universities will be reviewed. Current topics at optical wavelengths will be included."
"Magnetostatic, magnetoelastic and elastic wave propagation in magnetically saturated single crystal round and square cross-section rods of yttrium iron garnet ( YIG ), possessing non-ellipsoidal geometry, has been extensively studied. However, the resulting delay characteristics versus dc applied magnetic field and frequency are necessarily non-optimum for certain microwave applications. The object of this paper is to demonstrate the feasibility of polycrystalline ferrite loading for modifying and controlling magnetoelastic delay spectra. This technique has the advantage that sample geometry, which determines the internal magnetostatic field configuration, can be adjusted simply and cheaply without disturbing the single crystal specimens in which the magnetoelastic propagation takes place. Further, if necessary, experiments can be conducted on a minimal volume of single crystal material. The discussion is restricted to the axially magnetized arrangement shown in Figure 1. More sophisticated geometries are currently under consideration. Figure 1 A depicts a single crystal ferrimagnetic round rod, of saturation magnetization 4 /spl pi/ M/sub 1/, loaded with a polycrystalline sleeve, of saturation magnetization 4 /sp pi/ M/sub 2/. Figure 1 B depicts a single crystal rod ( 4 /sp pi/M/sub 1/ ) backed by a polycrystalline ferrite ( 4/spl pi/M/sub 2/ ) of identical cross-section."
"With a few notable exceptions ( like Philips of the Netherlands), the microwave industry in the smaller European countries is concentrated in small-by-US-standards companies. The bulk of microwave research is conducted in universities, technical institutes, or state-run research centers, for few companies can afford to sponsor their own research programs directly. Universities and industries often cooperate to establish research centers."
"Title page for the conference paper."
"Recent developments on application of topical waveguides in Japan are reviewed. Continuous and concentrated efforts have been made to improve the TE/sub 01/ circular waveguide system for materialization of millimeter wave communication. Another feature of our developments is the practical application of such up-dated microwave techniques as leaky waveguides and beam waveguides to the vehicular communication or train control systems."
"Direct-coupled confocal resonators are considered for use as band-pass filters at millimeter wavelengths in this paper. In previous work on band-pass filters for millimeter wavelengths, two flat reflectors were used to form resonators; these resonators could not produce high unloaded Q values because of the critical tolerances of maintaining parallelism between reflectors. To overcome these difficulties, resonators with curved spherical surfaces have been used at millimeter wavelengths to achieve high Q/sub u/. Single-resonator Fabry-Perot interferometers and absorption wavemeters were considered (in these references), and the possibility of using them as band-pass filter elements was suggested. In this summary, one- and two-resonator band-pass filters are described together with experimental data. Emphasis is placed on types of coupling structures, reduction of spurious responses, and an extension to filters of arbitrary numbers of resonators."
"A broadband thermal power-measuring detector has been developed for the 300 to 3000 GHz (1 mm to 100 micron) band, with indications that it is useful over a significantly larger frequency interval. Exploratory detector measurements have so far been made at frequencies from 50 GHz (6 mm) to 20, 000 GHz (15 microns)."
"The perturbation produced in the stability characteristics of an empty curved mirror optical resonator upon insertion of an inhomogeneous focusing medium has been examined in the general case wherein the space between mirrors is only partially occupied by such a medium. Stability of optical modes in a resonator is closely related to the behavior of paraxial rays. Such rays are either confined to the structure (termed \"stable\") or diverge from the structure (\"unstable\"). In the formulation presented here the significant parameters result directly from the multiplication of transfer matrices in a somewhat different form than that previously given by Kogelnik. The importance of the configuration analyzed is underlined by the experimental observations of Welling and others regarding the presence of refractive index gradients in flashed laser materials. The computed results suggest an experiment employing the losses of a resonator operating near the instability boundary as an independent indication of the refractive gradient."
"This paper is concerned with the optimum design of a light beam waveguide constructed with the proposed lens-like media which have hyperbolic temperature distribution. In such media, the temperature distribution is ideally quadratic in the transverse direction, and so mode conversion loss originating from higher-order variation of the dielectric constant is small. Moreover, this guide has the merits that the design procedure is clear, the mode matching at the input port is easy, and it can be constructed using ordinary air. This consideration can easily be extended to a guide with a curved configuration. It is shown that the experimental convergency of this gas lens is in agreement with theoretical considerations."
"The relationship between electromagnetic momentum and mechanical forces has frequently been studied in relation to the design of wattmeters using radiation pressure, and to the possible steering of space craft using the same principle. The general theorem of conservation of momentum provides a powerful theoretical tool in mechanics, and the analysis reported in this paper is an attempt to use a similar momentum conservation principle in the analysis of waveguide problems. The basic theorem which is required was reported many years ago by Stratton, and this can be used to determine an upper limit for the value of the reflection coefficient at the junction between two dissimilar waveguides. Particular examples of such waveguide junctions may be solved exactly by using the Wiener-Hopf method for solving integral equations, and it appears that in such cases an exact expression for the magnitude of the reflection coefficient may be deduced relatively simply from momentum arguments."
"Sampling techniques have long been used on periodic waveforms to achieve wide bandwidths in oscilloscopes and other applications. The sampling oscilloscope, which is the electrical equivalent of the optical stroboscope, operates by sampling the voltage amplitude at progressively later points on successive cycles of a repetitive waveform. The state-of-the-art in sampling is the 4 GHz bandwidth presently available in sampling oscilloscopes . The purpose of this paper is to present the design requirements for extending this broadband sampling technique through X-band and then to describe one solution to the problem."
"A new method for varactor diode characterization has been developed. As the quality of microwave varactors rapidly improves, a simple and accurate means of characterization has become increasingly important. The present methods for varactor characterization consist of either a \"relatlve impedance\" or a \"transmission\" technique. The commonly accepted varactor equivalent circuit is shown in Figure 1."
"The measurement of ionization rate and electron densities in thermally ionized gases attracted the attention of many scientists and engineers working in the aerospace field. Determination of these parameters is of importance not only in the field of communication with reentering bodies, but is also of vital importance in understanding combustion and other rapid chemical reactions. Initial ionization is usually attributed to collisions between molecules, but as the electron density increases, collisions between electrons and neutral particles may also become important or even dominant in the ionization process. Depending on the efficiency of molecular collision processes, on the physical and chemical properties of the gas and its purity, a time lag or relaxation time will result between the heating of the neutral gas and the attainment of equilibrium electron density. Since in a shock tube, samples of gas can rapidly be heated to temperatures in excess of 10/sup 4/ /spl deg/K without introducing an excess of impurities, this kind of device is ideally suited for the above-mentioned studies."
"Almost all waveguide components consist of transitions, either continuous or discontinuous, because they are either of modified structure or filled with some material. Such transitions vary from simple types, such as transitions from one waveguide to another (like a flange coupling, E- or H-plane shift, E- or H-plane bend, twist, window, or in-guide detector), to more complicated types, where a change in mode also occurs, as in transitions from rectangular to circular or square waveguide, coaxial or strip line, etc. Another example of this latter more complicated type is the Magic Tee."
"In the design of antennas for use on hypersonic re-entry vehicles, the effect of high-temperature ionized gas surrounding the vehicle must be considered. Interaction of the fields of the antenna with adjacent ionized medium requires examination of parameters that are not involved in the usual RF plasma interaction. In the nonlinear case where the RF field is strong enough to produce additional ionization in the gas, break-down occurs and proceeds catastrophically until the electron density is high enough that the plasma limits the strength of the field penetrating the plasma. The power-handling capability of the antenna depends upon the RF fields created and the electron production and loss rates in the flowing medium."
"For years, various properties of gaseous media have been measured using microwave cavities as the sampling device. Although extensive work has been done in this field with respect to the design of refractometers and microwave spectrometers, very little effort has been directed toward the determination of the variation of sampling cavity characteristics caused by opening it to the sampled medium. In this paper, a special type of spaced-ring cavity will be analyzed and the limits to which it may be opened to the sampled medium examined in detail."
"During the past few years considerable interest has been generated in remanent latching ferrite phase shifters, especially the non-reciprocal type as conceived by Silber, for phase array antennas. By utilizing the square loop properties of ferrites and operating them in the two remanant states, differential phase shift is obtained. These phase shifters possess the virtue of extreme compactness, ability to sustain high peak and average powers, are self-latching, that is require no holding power in either state, and can be switched rapidly with low energy."
"An X-band ferrite phase shifter has been developed for operational use, the size and electrical performance of which are favorably suited for use in a phased array antenna that requires minimum center-to-center element spacings of 0.537 /spl lambda/. The phase shifter has the same configuration as a Faraday rotator with a ferrite rod located at the center of a circular waveguide with an axially applied field. If a circularly polarized wave is passed through this geometry, a nonreciprocal phase versus current characteristic is obtained. The theory of operation of such a device is already well understood, so further elaboration is not necessary. Scharfman and others have described this type of phase shifter in the literature."
"During the past several years, microwave device development has been oriented toward the generation of compact, lightweight, rapid switching components. Devices which utilize toroidal or closed loop ferrimagnetic structures have proven invaluable in numerous phased array applications. However, such devices usually lack the compact size and light weight characteristics desired."
"Recent developments in rectangular waveguide latching phase shifters have been directed primarily toward achieving good electrical performance with reduced size as a secondary objective. Miniaturization efforts have concentrated chiefly on strip line and coaxial structures. While these designs have achieved moderately good low power electrical performance and some reduction in physical size, they have exhibited inherent frequency dependence not associated with rectangular waveguide phase shifters."
"Considerable work has been done previously on latching ferrite phase shifters of the nonreciprocal variety. However, the requirement herein for reciprocity imposes new design problems and demands new thinking about switching techniques"
"Because of the trend in modern RADARs to the phased array type, a great deal of activity exists in the field of ferrite phase shifters. The desired high level of antenna performance has put stringent requirements on the phase shifting elements. Low insertion loss, ability to handle high peak and average power, temperature stability, and low switching time and switching energy are desired. Due to the large number of elements there are also considerations on cost, size, and reproducibility. These requirements lead to specifications which are an extensive test of the ingenuity of the element designer and frequently tax the state of the art in ferrite materials."
"Although Reggia-Spencer phase shifters have been built for many years, no completely satisfactory description of the principle of operation of this type of device has appeared in the literature. Of the many theories advanced to explain the phase shifter operation, two have retained some measure of vogue. Button and Lax have postulated that the basic mechanism is the change in effective permeability with applied field, enhanced by the dielectric loading effects of the ferrite. Their view is supported by J.A. Weiss, who identified frequency-periodic resonances as the onset of Faraday rotation in a rectangular guide structure. Rizzi suggested that the ferrite rod acts as a \"dielectric waveguide\" and that the phase shift results from Faraday rotation of the rf fields with applied field. Subsequent computations by Tompkins, Reggia, and Joseph have tended to verify this point of view."
"In a latching ferrite phase shifter the magnetic material is used in sample shapes such as toroids in which the magnetic flux can be closed onto itself. This has the advantage that in the operation of the device no holding current is required. The switching is performed by means of current pulses. According to their direction, these current pulses either reverse the direction of the magnetization or leave it unchanged."
"Analysis of scattering matrices of lossless 3-port junctions with 3-fold rotational symmetry shows that circulators are obtained when the eigenvalues, which have unit magnitude, make angles of 120 degrees. Zero reflection, zero insertion loss, and infinite isolation coincide at the same values of device parameters such as frequency, saturation magnetization, and size of ferrite."
"Recent developments in latching ferrite phase shifters permit phase control within 360 degrees at microsecond switching times for phased-array antenna elements. When an array antenna must handle large instantaneous signal bandwidths, the simple modulo 2/spl pi/ phase control provided by these phase shifters must be supplemented by real time delays of several nanoseconds. The time delay phaser described below provides four-bit digital subdivision of an 8.7-nanosecond total time delay in increments of 0.58 nanosecond."
"This paper describes the development of a lightweight fast-switching 35 GHz latching ferrite circulator, with an instantaneous bandwidth of 5%, and a switching time of less the 0.30 microseconds. The device is designed for use over the temperature range of -60/spl deg/ C to +100/spl deg/ C under dynamic operating conditions. It is particularly well suited for use as a switching element in those applications where high reliability, small size and weight, and fast switching time are required. Total weight of the device (excluding electronic driver) is less than 0.6 ounces, and total volume is less than 0.75 cubic inch. The unit is pictured in Figure 1."
"This paper reports the development of a ferrite circulator-switch suitable for time delay switching applications in phased array RADARs. The requirements are high speed and minimum switching energy, combined with good isolation and match, and low insertion loss, over a moderate band. Stability of transmission phase against temperature variations is an important requirement, especially in large arrays. Data will be reported here on design considerations, performance, and methods of measurement."
"Compact 3-port microwave ferrite circulators have become widely used since 1960, but they have generally been empirically designed and their operation is not well understood. The success of the experimental approach has resulted in less emphasis on the theoretical explanation of these devices, and this situation is now retarding the development of the more complicated 4-port circulators. However, extending the work of Auld and Davies, IBM 7040 computer programs have recently been written in this department that predict and display the swept-frequency performance of 3-port and 4-port waveguide circulators. There are several objectives in this work: (1) to extend these computer programs, and the associated theory, to predict the performance of static and latching ferrite circulators in order that the performance of various ferrite configurations can be assessed and compared before they are built; (2) to optimize the many variables to obtain broadband performance where possible; (3) to build some devices to check the theory; (4) to use the theory to gain some insight into the physical behavior of symmetrical waveguide circulators; (5) to investigate phase shift in these devices."
"The four-port single junction circulator in strip line offers the possibility of a more compact and less expensive structure than the heretofore required dual three-port units in tandem. One such four-port circulator has been described previously, although very little material has appeared in the literature on the theory of the device. Auld points out that an additional parameter is required for the four-port circulator compared to the three-port. Davies and Cohen have extended Bosma's circulation equations to the four-port case and have included the scattering matrix analysis. Fay and Comstock have indicated a possible combination of modes of a disc structure which could provide a four-port circulator."
"The operation of a novel stripline circulator, which incorporates a single disk of yttrium aluminum iron garnet on one side of the center conductor and a large metallic short circuit on the other side, is described in terms of a resonance mode of the junction. The basic design of this circulator is shown in Figure 1. As seen in the figure the short circuit can be the magnet necessary to bias the garnet disk to the optinum point for circulation. Quarter wavelengths of low impedance line are used to couple the junction to the 50 ohm input lines. The performance of this circulator is typically 30 db of isolation and O. 2 db of insertion loss over an 1870 bandwidth."
"The publication greatly appreciates the support of the various corporate sponsors listed."
"The author index contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in the proceedings record."
"Provides a listing of current committee members."
"Presents a map of the vicinity of Los Altos, CA, USA."
"Presents the front cover of the 1966 International Microwave Symposium."
"Contains various advertisements, welcome messages, anb committee or program information of the conference proceedings."
"A hearty welcome is extended to all of you attending the 1966 G-MTT International Microwave Symposium, With considerable effort on the part of the Program Committee, a full and exciting four day program is presented. Invited speakers and guests will give a truly international breath and technical depth to the coverage, However, the true core of a scientific symposium lies in the new and unpublished work to be presented in the contributed papers. This year marks the close of the third decade of continuous and strong effort in the microwave field in this community. The culmination of one single stream of endeavor is represented by the ensuing completion of the Stanford Linear Accelerator - a task of great magnitude and scientific promise. It is hoped that you will find time to tour this activity."
"Provides a schedule of conference events and a listing of which papers were presented in each session."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"The resonant frequencies for the fundamental modes in circular cylindrical and rectangular parallelopiped high dielectric resonators have been calculated by computer for a range of values of physical dimensions and relative dielectric constant. The frequency range extends from zero to 50 kMc/s, the relative dielectric constant from 50 to 1800, and physical dimensions from zero to 500 roils. Results are presented in graphical form with frequency plotted vs. resonator length for parametric values of relative dielectric constant and cross-sectional dimensions. A brief review of earlier work with high dielectric resonators is included. Expressions for the resonant frequency and fundamental mode field configurations are given."
"An offset parallel-coupled strip configuration is described, in which the mechanical parameters are strip width, strip offset, and ratio of strip spacing to ground-plane spacing. The electrical parameters are dielectric constant, characteristic impedance, even and odd mode impedance. The configuration is analyzed by conformal rnapping techniques. Explicit design equations are derived in which the mechanical parameters are expressed in terms of the electrical parameters. Illustrative results are presented, and the limitations on coupling strength, characteristic impedance, and strip configuration are discussed."
"The differential phase shift and the losses to be expected in phase shifters using two oppositely magnetized ferrite slabs located symmetrically in a rectangular waveguide have been calculated for various locations and thicknesses of the ferrite slabs. For small thicknesses of the ferrite slabs, the differential phase shift increases rapidly with increasing thickness reaching a maximum when the thickness is approximately 1/10 of the free space wavelength. The calculated insertion loss of a 360-degree phase shifter decreases with increasing slab thickness for small thickness, reaching a minimum when the thickness is approximately 1/25 of the free space wavelength. The minimum insertion loss calculated with the assumption that the imaginary part of the diagonal component of the permeability tensor is 0.01 and that dielectric loss can be neglected is approximately 0.85 dB. The peak power handling capability has also been analyzed. It can conveniently be summarized in terms of a high-power figure of merit. For reasonably high values of this figure of merit, a peak power capability of the order of 100 kW is anticipated."
"The phase shifters considered consist of a helix surrounded by or surrounding a ferrite toroid. The ferrites work at their maximum remanent magnetization. It is shown that the helix surrounding a ferrite allows at any combination of frequency and helix diameter a larger differential phase shift than the helix surrounded by a ferrite does; and that in the latter helix the phase shift is easily disturbed by the TE/sub 11/ mode. It is furthermore shown that the 3/spl lambda//4 per turn helix offers a larger fractional bandwidth than the /spl lambda//4 per turn helix does unless one uses ferrites with very low saturation magnetization. The theoretical results are supplemented by experimental data."
"Significant advances in the performance of precision coaxial standards and components have resulted from rigid adherence to three basic design principles: 1) incremental constancy of characteristic impedance, 2) coplanar compensation of discontinuities, and 3) control of mechanical tolerance sensitivity. The advances include dielectric supports with extremely small interface discontinuities, contacting members that are insensitive to mechanical tolerances, calculable airline impedance standards of very high absolute accuracy, nearly reflectionless terminations based on a cylindrical metal-film resistor, and adaptors between line sizes based on smooth (rather than stepped) diametral transitions. Extensions of the design principles have resulted in the introduction of closely controlled reflections provided by a novel impedance-matching tuner, broadband calibrated mismatches, and resistance-standard terminations that retain their nominal dc values to very high frequencies."
"Contains an entry for each author and co-author included in this publication."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Suitable definitions of the elements in the equivalent circuit of a packaged diode yield a lumped-element circuit with an impedance at its terminals which is the same as the total radial-line impedance of the packaged diode with the outer surface of the diode taken as the terminal surface. Consideration of the packaged diode as a radial-line structure permits an analytical justification for the incorporation of the diode circuit with the circuits of waveguide, coaxial-line, and strip-line diode mounts. As a result, the lumped-element equivalent circuit of a packaged diode can be directly related to the microwave equivalent circuit of the diode and the mount together. Diode element values, which were obtained from low-frequency measurements, have been used in conjunction with the theoretically determined circuits of mounted diodes to predict resonant frequencies at X-band of waveguide, coaxial-line, and stripline mounts holding packaged diodes. Similarly, antiresonant frequencies of greater than 20 Gc/s have been predicted for diodes in a radial cavity. The validity of all these predictions has been verified by measurement."
"This paper presents a theory for a nonresonant perturbation technique for the measurement of electric and magnetic field strengths within a device. Most presently employed perturbation field strength measurements require the use of a resonance technique. In the technique discussed here, reflection coefficient measurements are made at the same frequency with, and without, a perturbing object placed at the point at which the field strength is to be measured. By these data, and by the equations derived and presented in this paper, the desired field strength can be calculated. The technique can be used for cavities that are too lossy to support resonance, and is suitable for cavities for which the resonant field configuration differs from the field configuration to be measured. In addition, this technique has the advantage that it permits the measurement of the phase, as well as the amplitude of the field."
"Dielectric layers of alternating low and high dielectric constant are useful as filters in the millimeter wave, infrared, and optical regions, spanning a spectrum of about five decades. Transmission line theory can be applied, with refractive index replacing admittance. The electrical or optical thicknesses of the layers are generally integral multiples of the thinnest layer, but the reflection in the pass band can be appreciably reduced by small adjustments in the layer thicknesses. The theory is based on the concept of Herpin equivalent index, which is the optical counterpart of image admittance used by electrical engineers. The theory is reviewed and design data is presented."
"It is shown that a symmetrical, lossless 2N-port may be represented by an equivalent circuit, a 2N-port lattice network, which is a 2N-port generalization of the known two-port symmetrical lattice. The approach employed here in finding the equivalent circuits is based on the fact that any symmetrical 2N-port may be decomposed into two general N-port networks, each of which represents the opencircuit or short-circuit bisected structures."
"Perturbation theorems are derived in the context of a theory of waveguide junctions. These theorems express changes in impedance or admittance matrix elements, due to changes in a waveguide junction, in terms of integrals over products of perturbed and unperturbed basis fields associated with the junction and with its adjoint. Media involved are required only to be linear. Concepts of first-order perturbation theory are discussed briefly, and the term \"correct to the lowest order\" is precisely defined. The need of explicit theorems telling when one may expect results actually correct to the lowest order is noted. Two problems are solved approximately by the perturbation approach: i) reflection at the junction of rectangular waveguide with filleted waveguide of the same main dimensions; and 2) the effect of finite conductivity of both obstacle and waveguide wall for half-round inductive obstacles in rectangular waveguide."
"Contains an entry for each author and co-author included in this publication."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Polarization transformation of plane waves propagating in twisted anisotropic media is studied theoretically and numerically. It is shown that rotation of linear polarization is effected by such a medium when the anisotropy is of the order of 2 to 1 and twist rates commensurate with the relative value of the dielectric constants of the medium are used (less than 15/spl deg///spl lambda//sub 0/ for low dielectric constants and up to 90/spl deg///spl lambda//sub 0/ for dielectrics in the vicinity of 1000)."
"The compensated balun, first described by Marchand and later reinvented by Roberts, is found to have much broader band-widths than realized by either author. This balun is analyzed here and the parameters which determine its bandwidths are discussed. Curves are presented which allow the design of a balun having any bandwidth. The practical considerations which preclude realization of infinite bandwidths are pointed out. Since the balun is one-quarter wavelength long at center frequency, the balun can be less than one-twentieth wavelength at its lowest operating frequency. Because impedance transformation is generally required with balanced-to-unbalanced line transformation, two techniques including impedance transformation are discused. The reactance slope of the compensated balun is controllable, which allows the balun to directly compensate for the reactance slope of some loads. An example of the compensation of a dipole antenna over a 17-percent bandwidth is discussed. Finally, experimental verification of the balun theory is presented, along with an application to an S-band impedance-transforming compensated balun."
"The characteristics of ladder lines are investigated in detail and the effects of the various dimensions of the ladder line and the enclosing structure on the /spl omega/-/spl Beta/ characteristic are presented. The effects of a dielectric material placed at different positions in the structure on the characteristics are also examined in detail. Dielectric materials selected for investigation have relative dielectric constants of 9, 100, and 256, characteristic of ruby and rutile, which have been shown to be good maser materials. It is shown that a nonpropagating easitron circuit may be made to propagate by loading it with a dielectric material, in which case the ridge in a Karp-type slow-wave structure may be eliminated. This results in a simple traveling-wave maser structure. The input impedance to the ladder-line structure and the structure ohmic loss have been evaluated and are presented in the figures. This information is useful in designing transducers to couple the power into and out of the structure, and gives an estimate of the expected ohmic loss in the structure."
"Two regions in space are coupled through an opening in a perfectly conducting surface. By using a complete set of eigenvectors in the opening, each region can be represented by an equivalent Norton circuit involving a short-circuit current (a vector) and a generator admittance (a matrix). The particular case of a cavity at resonance is investigated. Application to a cavity terminated in a waveguide is considered, and the transformation of the equivalent circuit resulting from the shift of the terminal plane is analyzed. After solving the example of a slotted waveguide, a possible set of eigenvectors for an arbitrary opening is proposed."
"The characteristics of the surface waves supported by a plane boundary of a semi-infiite region of gyrotropic plasma are investigated for the case in which the direction of the magnetostatic field is parallel to both the interface and the propagation direction. Two cases are considered, one for which the plasma is terminated by a perfectly conducting screen, and the other for which it is terminated by a semi-infinite region of free space. Surface waves are found to be propagated for all frequencies below both the plasma and the gyromagnetic frequency in the first case, and below both the plasma and 1/ /spl radic/2 times the upper hybrid resonant frequency in the second case. The characteristics of the surface waves are discussed, and numerical results of the phase velocity and the propagation coefficient of the surface waves along the interface, as well as their attenuation rates normal to the interface, are given."
"The planar waveguide holding planar obstacles is a prototype structure--its fields correspond to some sets of lowest modes in circular and coaxial line waveguides that use coaxial iris loading and in inductive iris loaded rectangular guides. An analysis of a periodically thin-iris loaded planar waveguide is offered, the procedure for which can also be applied to the other waveguides mentioned. A particular example for small iris separation is considered. Among the results of this study are adjustments to some formulas of Brillouin so as to allow consideration of large phase shifts per cell of periodic guide. The procedure, which can be recommended as a formula deriving technique, can find use with such other planar obstacles as the thick periodic iris, the interdigitally placed irises, or the single iris in a multimode guide. Some consideration is given to interdigital loading."
"Contains an entry for each author and co-author included in this publication."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Because of the normal time required in publication processes, I am writing this message in January for the April Issue. At this moment, our new editor, S. Okwit, is about to take office, although by the time you read this, he will probably have been functioning as editor for four months."
"The proposed method was carried out to make easier dielectric studies em powders under controlled pressure when the frequency varies. A TE/sub 01n/-mode resonator is needed. The substance under test is contained in a tube of quartz, placed along the axis of a cylindrical cavity. The mathematical formulation for the complex permittivity is given in rigorously accounting for the presence of the tube. Typical ditticulties are discussed, and experimental results given. The absolute precision of the measurement can be compared with that of the classicrd method (/spl plusmn/2 percent for /spl epsi/' and /spl plusmn/ 10 percent for /spl epsi/''). The greatest error arises from an insufficiently precise determination of the geometrical and electrical characteristics of the quartz tube. This error is systematic, and thus it is possible to demonstrate the very small permittivity variations (/spl plusmn/ 0.3 percent for /spl epsi/' and /spl plusmn/ 5 percent for /spl epsi/'')."
"Design curves for ridged rectangular waveguides of the usual aspect ratio of 0.45 were published by Hopfer following earlier work carried out by Cohn and Marcuvitz. This paper has been written to extend the design data to ridged rectangular waveguides of any aspect ratio. An analysis of the error introduced by proximity effects has shown these to be of the order of a few percent."
"The theoretical performance of an abrupt-junction high-quality epitaxial varactor diode used as a harmonic frequency doubler is considered. The modified series model for the device, consisting of a nonlinear elastance (reciprocal of capacitance) and a nonlinear resistance, is presented. A comparison is made between the performance limits derived for the modified series model and similar results based on the conventional series model. In addition to dissipating some power, the charge-variable series resistance contributes to the frequency conversion of the device."
"A voltage-controlled switch using PIN diodes loop-coupled to a section of WR975 waveguide is described. Total switching loss of over 40 dB could be obtained at 960 Mc/s. The switch was operated at rates up to 60 c/s for use in the satellite-tracking radar system at Crawford Hill, N. J. The 3-dB bandwidth of the complete switch was 0.7 Mc/s. The forward switch loss was low enough to permit transmission of 10 kW of 960-Mc/s power with a 50 percent duty cycle without excessive heating of the diodes. Theoretical analysis of the complete waveguide switch involved determination of the coupling of individual Ioops to the dominant and higher-order waveguide modes. A reciprocity theorem was used to calculate the appropriate mode coupling coefficients. These were then related to the insertion loss by means of an equivalent circuit for the complete switch. A number of experiments confirmed the theory."
"An equivalent circuit is presented for the \"centipede\" coupled-cavity waveguide. The \"centipede\" waveguide, which is typical of the class of slow-wave structures suitable for use in a wide-band high-power traveling-wave tube, has two pass bands which may interact strongly with a small-diameter electron beam. The equivalent circuit is able to represent both of these pass bands. A detailed comparison with an S-band \"centipede\" waveguide shows that the equivalent circuit can represent the dispersion, interaction, and loss characteristics of the waveguide within a few percent."
"Contains an entry for each author and co-author included in this publication."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"By applying perturbation theory to one of the higher modes that may exist in the beam waveguide resonator (also known as the focused Fabry-Perot interferometer), it can be shown that the degeneracy of the mode system can be reduced, resulting in two mode systems with slightly different resonant frequencies. Using this result, a dual-mode frequency discriminator was constructed and used as a reference element for stabilizing the frequency of microwave sources. The stability of a 34-GHz stabilized source was better than 1 part in 5X10/sup 7/ short term and better than 1 Part in 1.5X10/sup 6/ long term. The frequency sensitivity of this dual-mode resonator to changes in the properties of the dielectric medium between the end plates was utilized to determine the dielectric constant of gases at 34 GHz with an accuracy of a few parts in 10/sup 7/."
"The effect of adding a negative lens between each pair of positive lenses of an optical transmission line is calculated. The negative lens reduces the ability of the transmission line to control the direction of the light beam. The changes in dominant mode spot size, allowed bending radius, critical bend periodicity, and sensitivity to random lateral lens displacements are computed for all ranges of lens spacings and focal lengths which are stable."
"The coupling coefficient between the TE/sub 11/ mode and the TM/sub 11/ mode in tapered circular waveguides is derived, and at cutoff frequency it tends to approach an infinity of the order of 0/sup -1/4/. It is surprising to discover that the corresponding coupling coefficient between the TE/sub 10/ mode and the TM/sub 12/ mode in tapered rectangular waveguides approaches instead a zero of the order of 0/sup 1/4/ at cutoff frequency. Accordingly, for the modes concerned, the choice of using circular or square waveguides as tapers for transition at and near cutoff frequency is significant in reducing mode conversion level. At and near cutoff frequency a \"synthesized\" square taper is better in that it is shorter than a \"synthesized\" circular taper for the same mode conversion levels. On the other hand, for frequencies far away from cutoff the choice is insignificant. Design procedures for \"synthesized\" waveguide tapers at and near cutoff are presented, and the results of measurements are in agreement with the theoretical calculations."
"A computational procedure is given for the solution of the large signal abrupt junction varactor doubler as the input frequency is varied, given the available power of the source and the source and load impedances. The basic equations are presented in a convenient form. The steps in the procedure are then outlined, and an example is given to demonstrate their use."
"A simple theoretical model of a Iossless nonideal junction circulator is described. The model consists of a matched lossless n-port junction with a lossless two-port connected to each arm. The basic thought behind it is to separate the reflecting properties of the circulator from the other ones. For the case n=3, unsymmetrical as well as symmetrical junctions are treated. For a symmetrical three-port, the justification of the model has also been experimentally verified. In the case n=4, a symmetrical junction is treated. Flow graphs are used for visualizing the scattering matrices of combined networks and for calculating the coefficients of them."
"Contains an entry for each author and co-author included in this publication."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"The boundary value problem of rectangular waveguide, filled with transversely magnetized semiconductor or plasma, is solved by a perturbation method reported earlier. The solution by first-order theory is compared to the results of an experiment in which surface currents in the guide wall due to perturbed and unperturbed TE/sub 1,0/ wave in N-type Silicon are sampled and segregated. Theoretical and experimental results are in excellent agreement."
"A theoretical study of one-port log-periodic circuits consisting of a transmission line shunt loaded with open-circuit transmisson lines is reported. The objective was to determine the conditions under which the phase of the input reflection coefficient varies linearly with the logarithm of the frequency. Precise definitions and general analytical techniques for log-periodic circuits are given. Results of extensive numerical calculations are presented to illustrate the dependence of the input reflection coefficient on the various design parameters. It was found that phase deviations from linear on the order of one degree are quite easily achieved."
"For specific forms of excitations, the normal modes and mode coefficients of a lossless helically corrugated circular multimode waveguide are determined from the appropriate boundary conditions. Because of the multiplicity of the roots of the characteristic dispersion equation obtained, care must be exercised in the evaluation of the equation and in the interpretation of the /spl omega/-/spl beta/ diagram. For the TE/sub 11/ mode excitation, it is shown that increasing either the depth or the width of the corrugation enhances the conversion into the TM/sub 11/ mode, whereas increasing the pitch reduces the TM/sub 11/ mode conversion. Mode conversion always increases with increasing frequency. The theoretical results are in agreement with the results of measurement."
"An analysis of cascaded commensurate transmission-line C-section all-pass networks is presented. The analytical form of the transmission coefficient is found to have a very simple form, intimately related to the reflection coefficient of the stepped-impedance transformer prototype of the cascaded C-section. The phase function of cascaded commensurate transmission-line C-sections is investigated and found to be the arctangent of a reactance function in tan /spl theta/. Last, general, exact synthesis procedures for designing cascaded commensurate transmission-line C-section all-pass networks to have prescribed phase characteristics are presented, and two design examples are given. One of the examples is the exact design of a 3-section Schiffman 90/spl deg/ phase shifter, which has not been previously reported in the literature."
"Contains an entry for each author and co-author included in this publication."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"The attenuation, guide wavelength, and characteristic impedance of rectangular waveguides with one high conductivity semiconductor side wall have been derived for the case of propagating TE/sub NO/ modes. These properties can be interpreted in terms of the penetration of the microwave electric field into the semiconductor material by an amount of the same order as, but generally unequal to, the classical skin depth. These theoretical results are evaluated for the special case of an indium antimonide side wall in RG 138/U waveguide operating at 110 Gc/s. The calculated attenuation lengths and guide wavelengths for this case are of such magnitude that they can be measured with reasonable accuracy, thus illustrating the value of this technique for the measurement of the electrical properties of semiconductor materials at the higher microwave frequencies."
"A practical measurement technique for determining the relative amplitude and phase of the individual modes propagating in overmoded waveguide is described. A phase-sensitive detector is used to measure the output of fixed probes placed around a single transverse plane in a section of enlarged waveguide. The detected output is directly proportional to the modal components, and data reduction is performed manually. The use of oversize waveguide provides increased accuracy and permits total multimode power measurements in conjunction with mode analysis. The technique can be used for mode measurements up to the fourth harmonic in standard rectangular waveguide. Experiments described in the paper use a single frequency source. However, signal sources with spurious content can be evaluated using appropriate tunable RF band-pass filters."
"This paper presents a theory for single-stage circulator-coupled negative resistance reflection amplifiers based on proposed realistic circuit models for frequency-dependent band-limited circulators and broadband negative resistance devices such as the tunnel diode. In particular, gain bandwidth limitations are derived which are imposed by both the inherent resonance associated with the nonreciprocal circulator junction and the reactive parasitic associated with the active device. These limitations are generally more restrictive than past results which assumed a \"perfect\" frequency-independent circulator and took into account only the device parasitic. In addition, a synthesis procedure is presented for realization of an absolutely stable amplifier with a prescribed nth-order Butterworth or Chebyscheff approximation to an ideally flat band-pass power gain characteristic. The approach employed is based upon the theory of reflection coefficient equalization between two reactively constrained resistances representing the pass band circulator and device immittance models. In addition, a band rejection out-of-band stabilizing network is absorbed in the pass band equalizer in accordance with an over-all synthesis procedure. Finally, the theory is verified by the construction and testing of an L-band tunnel diode amplifier having third-order maximally flat power gain centered at 1.46 Gc/s and with half-power bandwidths (430 Mcls and 355 Mc/s at 10 dB and 16dB midband gain) within six percent of those predicted by theory."
"A new class of coupled-transmission-line directional couplers, called \"nonsymmetrical directional couplers,\" is described. Unlike conventional directional couplers, nonsymmetrical directional couplers use coupled lines of unequal characteristic impedances. The principal difference between the performance of nonsymmetrical directional couplers and that of conventional designs is the impedance level of the coupled waves, which may be changed to higher or lower impedance levels than that of the incident wave. These directional couplers may be designed to have infinite directivity and to be matched at all frequencies, or they may be designed to have infinite directivity at all frequencies and a specified maximum VSWR. Coupling relationships and design equations for both cases are presented, and the relative properties of both cases are discussed. The theoretical limitation on the maximum coupling and the maximum impedance transformation that can be obtained simultaneously are derived. Techniques for broadbanding by cascading additional sections of coupled limes are described. Experimental results of a trial --10-dB coupler with coupled lines of 50 and 75 ohms are presented."
"The perturbation of a semiconductor-filled microwave cavity by nuclear radiation particles is considered as a possible means of radiation counting. The TE/sub r/ mode equations for a spherical cavity are summarized, and the charge diffusion-recombination equation is solved for this spherical geometry. The case of a spherical cavity operating in the TE/sub 011/ mode, with the charge ionization occurring at the center, is analyzed. Through the utilization of a semisteady-state approach, a normalized expression for the power change as a function of time is obtained. This quantitative description for the output pulse shape is applied to the case of high-purity CdS at a frequency of 46.5 Gc/s. These results are presented in an accompanying figure."
"Contains an entry for each author and co-author included in this publication."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"This paper treats the propagation of electromagnetic waves in the interior of a waveguide that is filled with a moving medium. The medium is assumed to be homogeneous, isotropic, and lossless, and to move with a constant velocity along the axis of the waveguide. The Maxwell-Minkowski equations for the electromagnetic fields are solved by means of a pair of vector potential functions similar to those frequently used for stationary media. The fields inside the waveguide are derived for both rectangular and cylindrical waveguides. The well-known cutoff phenomenon for a waveguide is found to be modified in an interesting way when the medium inside the waveguide is moving The results show that for a slowly moving medium (a medium for which n/sp, Beta/<1, where n is the index of refraction and /spl Beta/ is the velocity of the medium divided by the velocity of light in vacuum/, there are two critical frequencies, separating three frequency ranges in each of which there is a different type of propogation. For a high-speed medium (n/spl Beta/<1), it is found that there is no cutoff phenomenon at all, although there is one critical frequency separating two frequency ranges in which the propagation is different."
"A diplexer is a filter which connects a transmitter and a receiver to a common antenna so that both the transmitter and the receiver may be operated simultaneously when their frequencies are not identical. The diplexer described in this report uses hybrid junctions, is easily tuned, and can be designed in a simple, straight-forward manner. Its maximum power-handling capacity is the same as that of the connecting transmission line, and its insertion loss is unusually low. An analysis of this filter and a long-stub filter is presented, in addition to the design procedure for, and the experimental results obtained with, a specific model."
"Impedance transforming networks are described which consist of short lengths of relatively high impedance transmission line alternating with short lengths of relatively low impedance line. The sections of transmission line are all exactly the same length (except for corrections for fringing capacitances), and the lengths of the line sections are typically short compared to a quarter wavelength throughout the operating band of the transformer. Tables of designs are presented which give exactly Chebyshev transmission characteristics between resistive terminations having ratios ranging from 1.5 to 10, and for fractional bandwidths ranging from 0.10 to 1.20. These impedance-transforming networks should have application where very compact transmission-line or dielectric-layer impedance transformers are desired."
"This paper describes the operating principle and the properties of a resonant cavity type mode transducer which was newly devised. The theoretical equations necessary for designing the mode transducer from a TE/sub 10/ mode of a rectangular waveguide to an arbitrary mode of a circular waveguide have been derived, and a design method using the coupling parameters is discussed. The experiments were made for the rectangular TE/sub 10/-circular TE/sub 01/, mode transformation in the 50 Gc band. Showing an example (N=1), the transfer loss, input SWR and mode purity were 1.34 dB, 1.13, and 95 percent (power contents), respectively, at the resonant frequency of 50 Gc/s. The 3 dB bandwidth of the transfer loss was 83 Mc/s at the constant cavity length, but it can be made much larger if the cavity length is adjusted according to the frequency change. This mode transducer is unique in that various modes can be excited purely in the circular guide by merely varying the cavity length."
"In this paper we study the properties of a transmission line consisting of an infinite array of conducting cylinders, placing emphasis on the dispersion characteristics of the lowest order slow wave mode. We present experimental results for the variation of phase velocity with frequency, and then, using a method of parameter estimation, determine the element current (distribution which best explains these observations. Assuming this distribution to be of the form we find that, for a given size of element, there is a value of /spl gamma/ which gives very good agreement for the variation of phase velocity over the frequency range of interest."
"Contains an entry for each author and co-author included in this publication."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"A particularly severe source of error in the microwave measurement of high dielectric constants has been the presence of small air gaps between dielectric surfaces and metal walls. In this paper, two precise measurement techniques are described that eliminate the effect of air gaps through the use of resonant modes, for which E/sub n/=0 at the dielectric-to-metal interface. In one method a cylindrical sample is resonated within a closely fitting circular waveguide, and in the other a cylindrical sample is placed at the center of a radial waveguide. Both methods utilize a circular-electric-mode whose electric field is parallel to the metal walls. The waveguides are dimensioned to be cut off in their air regions at the resonant frequency of the dielectric sample. Formulas yield /spl epsi//sub r/ as a function of the resonant frequency, and of diameter and length of the dielectric cylinder. Measured data on samples having /spl epsi//sub r/ /spl ap/ 85 show the two methods to agree within a few tenths of one percent. The accuracy of the methods is on the order of 0.5 percent maximum error and 0.2 percent probable error when /spl int//sub 0/ is measured within 0.1 percent and D and L within 0.0005 inch (for D/spl ap/ 0.3 inch and L /spl ap/0.1 inch)."
"A theoretical analysis and a unifying classification of methods of measuring phase at UHF and microwave frequencies are presented. The coherent phase bridge circuits are analyzed in terms of the type of modulation applied to the channels of the bridge and the type of combiner and mixer employed at the output of the bridge. In this analysis and classification, identifying characteristics, and some of the relative advantages and disadvantages of these circuits become obvious."
"This paper describes the development of a dual TE/sub 111/ mode cavity preselector that is centrally loaded with a large, nonferrous, metallic perturbation plug. The cavity tunes over the 6 to 8 GHz range. Dual mode operation reduces the size of the cavity to one-half the size of a conventional cavity. The perturbing plug increases the separation between the desired TE/sub 111/ mode and the undesired, next higher TM/sub 011/ mode from 15 Percent to 33 Percent. The result is a 29 percent tuning range that is free from unwanted modes. The preselector exhibits a 3 dB bandwidth of 60 MHz, a 40 dB bandwidth of about 400 MHz, and an insertion loss that is no more than 1 dB."
"The field problem of wave propagation in a waveguide of periodically varying section is investigated. An orthogonal curvi-linear coordinate system is developed leading to a separable wave equation. As a result, the problem is reduced to solving Hills Equation. The discussion is limited to the case of a waveguide with slowly varying radius but there is some expectation that useful results would be obtained, particularly for axial fields, without this restriction."
"Detection of 4 and 2 millimeter waves by a small, low-pressure, anomalous burning glow discharge in He or Ne is described. The responsivity and the noise equivalent power are discussed. Typical values are presented in a table: the former is found to be about 50 V/W, the latter about 5 /spl mu/W. The device is linear over about 30 dB, it has a LF bandwidth of about 50 kc/s and the same tube can be used both for detection of 4 and 2 mm waves by simply raising the applied dc potential a few volts. Since the device is very rugged it can withstand a high local oscillator power, so that in a synchronous detection circuit the noise equivalent power can be about 10/sup -11/ W at 1 c/s bandwidth."
"Contains an entry for each author and co-author included in this publication."
"This is a unique annual electron devices meeting of the Electron Devices Group, covering research, development, design, and manufacture. Papers will deal primarily with the devices themselves or important new device technology, rather than with applications or external circuitry."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"An exact analysis is made for the shielded coupled strip transmission line with three center conductors. By means of the immittance matrices presented, the electrical behavior of the coupled strip transmission line of this type may be completely described. Design formulas which enable one to evaluate the cross-section dimensions from the desired values of characteristic immittances are derived for the two kinds of the line configurations. Equivalent circuits of the two-port networks for various port conditions are also presented. In addition, an application is discussed involving the asymmetrical coupled strip transmission line with two center conductors. The appendix gives the derivation of the design formulas by means of conformal mapping techniques."
"An approximate synthesis technique is described for TEM directional couplers and fixed phase shifters consisting of multiple parallel-coupled quarter-wave sections. Synthesis is accomplished without the use of polynomials by a first-order relationship between the components and Chebyshev antenna arrays. The design procedure has the important advantage of allowing the maximum coupling coefficient between transmission lines to be an independent parameter. An iterative correction procedure for bringing the performance arbitrarily close to equal-ripple is described. The process has been programmed for electronic computation, and the results have been tabulated for directional couplers of 3, 6, 10, and 20 dB overall coupling and for phase shifters of 90, 45, and 22.5 degrees differential phase shifts. Bandwidth ratios range between 2 and 25, and the number of coupled sections ranges from 3 to 21 for couplers and from 2 to 9 sections for phase shifters. Maximum normalized even-mode impedance ranges from 1.83434 to 4.5."
"Design tables for a wide-band elliptic-function band-stop trammission-line filter are described. The filter consists of five alternating quarter-wave and half-wave stubs separated by quarter-wave lines. The characteristic impedances of the filter elements were computed from published tables of the lumped-element prototype by an exact method. The filter elements are assumed to be lossless."
"Propagation characteristics of a cylindrical waveguide partially filled with a cylindrical dielectric light modulation material is analyzed and numerical computation is performed for a few typical cases. This type of traveling-wave structure supports a TE or TM mode, and therefore is useful for light beam modulation applications requiring a longitudinal magnetic or electric field. Numerical analysis indicates that for the TM case, a broadband region occurs near a crossover point and broadband synchronization between the modulating microwave and the parallel-launched light beam can be obtained by a suitable choice of the dielectric medium surrounding the central dielectric."
"This paper discusses the uniform cylindrical waveguide formed by placing one conductor inside a conducting tube. Because of the complexity of the guide's cross section, the numerical technique of the point-matching method is adopted to solve the boundary-value problem. The formulations are carried out for the case when each of the conductors has an arbitrary cross section and also for the case when one of the conductors has a circular cross section. The coaxial waveguide modes, in which the field components have angular variations, split into odd and even modes when the center conductor begins to shift axis to form the uniform eccentric waveguide. However, only even modes in the eccentric guide correspond to the coaxial modes with no angular variations. The dependence of the cutoff frequency on the eccentricity of the guide is determined numerically for even and odd TE and TM modes. Experimental results verify the theoretical calculations for TE modes."
"Contains an entry for each author and co-author included in this publication."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"A synthesis procedure for distributed elliptic-function filters utilizing published tables of lumped-constant elliptic-function filters has been devised. It is dependent upon the application of a new generalized transformation for distributed networks. The filters often require the realization of distributed Brune sections, and several novel practical realizations are given both for general and degenerate Brune (i.e., Foster) sections. Examples are given of elliptic function stop band and pass band filters having both wide and narrow bandwidths, and experimental results show good agreement with theory."
"The propagation of TE/sub no/ modes in rectangular wave-guides that contain two dielectric slabs parallel to the narrow wall and extending over the full height of the guide is investigated. Waveguide and dielectric are assumed to be lossless and infinitely long. Apart from these restrictions, the dielectric slabs may have arbitrary thickness, position, and dielectric constant. The analysis is restricted to TE/sub no/ modes with the E-field parallel to the narrow guidewall. The guide containing only one dielectric slab is covered by this analysis. The even modes n = 2, 4, 6, . . . of the guide with two slabs correspond to the odd modes n' = n/2 = 1, 2, 3, . . . of the guide with one slab half the width of the guide with two slabs. For six relative dielectric constants (/spl epsilon/= 2.25, 4.00, 9.00, 12.25, 16.00, 25.00) the cutoff frequencies for TE 10, 20, 30, 40, 60 modes and the normalized propagation constants for TE 10 and TE 20 modes between their respective cutoff frequencies and a frequency slightly above the second- and fourth-order mode cutoff frequency for the empty guide, respectively, have been computed for a large range of slab thicknesses and slab positions. Selected results are presented graphically. These results are discussed. The parametric dependence of field distributions, of normalized characteristic impedances, of the ratio of cutoff frequencies (fractional bandwidth), and of the ratio of magnetic field components (ellipticity) are illustrated."
"This paper presents the transient analysis of certain four-port TEM mode microwave networks. Flow graph techniques are employed to determine in closed form the system function between two given ports. This representation reveals the pole-zero pattern of the component which is used to graphically obtain the amplitude spectrum (CW response). In the time domain, the impulse response (the inverse transform of the system function) is used to determine the step modulated response of the network at its resonant frequency. This proves to be a particularly easy task for certain symmetrical networks. The flow graph technique is illustrated by analyzing three often used microwave networks (namely; the ring hybrid, the 3-dB branch line coupler, and the branch line phase shifter), and an estimate is made of their \"settling times\" for a step modulated input. Experimental methods are introduced which permit an investigator to generate a 0.2 nanosecond pulse and/or a microwave step modulated source. These test functions are then used to critically evaluate the theoretical results in the laboratory."
"Two types of slit-coupled strip-line configuration are presented which are especially useful for the realization of multi-section components using printed-circuit techniques. The slit-coupled configurations described consist of a pair of strips oriented face to face and either parallel or perpendicular to the outer ground planes. Coupling is achieved through a longitudinal slit. Exact conformal mapping solutions of the even- and odd-mode characteristic impedances are arranged in the forms of the design equations for both parallel and perpendicular cases. In order to facilitate design, nomograms are presented for the parallel case which give the physical line dimensions in terms of the even- and odd-mode characteristic impedances. Furthermore, the exact design equations for both parallel and perpendicular broadside-coupled strip configurations, which are considered to be special cases of the slit-coupled configurations, are presented. Formulas for the terminating lines are also included. The proposed parallel-coupled strip transmission line configurations permit smooth variation of coupling and applications to a wide variety of circuit components."
"X/sub L/-band waveguide switches, using PIN diodes for the switching elements, were developed in the SPST, SP2T, SP4T, and SP8T configurations. At the frequency of 7.75 GHz, for which they were tuned, they exhibited insertion losses on the average of 0.1, 0.4, 0.6, and 1.1 dB, respectively. In all cases, the signal going out of each switch port when turned OFF decreased in excess of 29 dB. The bandwidth of each switch, whose values are indicated, is narrower for the switch which has the larger number of ports or which contains diodes of lower capacitance. Semiempirical formulas are developed which predict performance characteristics of the SPST switch in particular."
"An analysis is made of the common base microwave transistor oscillator circuit which uses a varactor in series with the colIector to tune over octave bandwidths. Equations are derived giving the required feedback capacitances and resonating elements required for octave tuning. Normally, the collector-emitter capacitance C/sub ce/ is made approximately equal to the transistor collector capacitance C/sub c/. The emitter-base capacitance C/sub eb/ is important only at very high frequencies. It is shown that a high-Q varactor must be used and that only a limited amount of collector-base capacitance C/sub cb/ may be added if the circuit is to be resonated over an octave. The output power for such a circuit is normally about 1/5 the maximum power available from the transistor. Experimental oscillators were made from 0.5 to 1 GHz and 1 to 2 GHz which substantially verified the analysis. Using the TIXS13 transistor, an output power of 200 mW was obtained from 430 to 860 MHz tuning from -2 to -115 volts. In the 1 to 2 GHz range a TIXS13 transistor oscillator was tuned from 1.09-1.96 GHz with about 40 mW power tuning from -2 to -115 volts. By use of a lower case capacitance varactor, the 1 to 2 GHz oscillator could be made to tune over the full octave."
"In this paper propagation in a model terrestrial waveguide is investigated. The surface impedance of the waveguide boundary is assumed to vary along the path of propagation. A quasioptical approach is used to derive the solution for the case of an abrupt variation in the surface impedance. The reciprocity theorem is employed to facilitate that solution for both directions of propagation. Experimental verification of this technique is obtained from measurements in the model waveguide."
"Contains an entry for each author and co-author included in this publication."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"A method for quantitative comparison of solid-state microwave square-law detectors is presented. The threshold response of the square-law detectors are compared for unit video bandwidth using the concept of noise equivalent power (NEP). NEP is the microwave input power required for unity signal-to-noise ratio in a 1 Hz bandwidth at the output of the detector. Contours of constant NEP in the microwave (RF) and video frequency plane clearly describe the dependence of threshold sensitivity on both video and radio frequencies, and thereby provide comparison of the threshold sensitivities of devices over the entire video and RF frequency spectrum. A criterion for the upper RF power lid of square-law operation for detectors is also presented. Dynamic range for a device can be found using this criterion and the threshold sensitivity of the device. Six solid-state detection devices are described briefly, then compared on the basis of the foregoing concepts. Four of these devices are familiar: the point-contact and planar Schottky-barrier (\"hot carrier\") diodes, and the tunnel and back diodes. Two relatively new devices are also discussed: the so-called \"hot carrier\" thermoelectric detector, and the space-charge-limited (SCL) dielectric diode."
"High quality varactor diodes are currently characterized by either a \"relative impedance\" or a \"transmission\" technique. In view of the present limitations of these methods, a third method, a \"reflection\" technique, has been proposed. This method requires measuring the power reflected from a diode near its series resonant frequency. The diode is located as the termination of a low impedance coaxial line.The primary virtue of the power reflection technique is the possibility of accurate determination of the diode series resistance. Both the reflection method and the transmission method offer the advantage of microwave characterization near the diode series resonant frequency. The power reflection technique is presently limited to diodes that series resonante below 24 GHz. The accuracy of the technique is limited by possible impedance transformations due to the diode mount and diode package."
"An ultra-low-noise two-channel tunable amplifier system, operating in the 1.5 to 2.5 GHz frequency range, consisting of a cooled positive resistance parametric up-converter followed by a traveling-wave maser (TWM) and down-converter, has been developed. A theoretical analysis of the important operating and design parameters of the up-converter is presented and experimentally verified. Experimental data is given on the operation of the up-converter with the input and output ports reversed (down-converter), and is shown to correlate with the theoretical model. A brief discussion is presented on the TWM, and the spurious signal considerations which govern the choice of maser center frequency (up-converter output frequency). Finally, some preliminary system data is given showing the low noise performance of the overall cascaded amplifier integrated with a 4.2/spl deg/K closed-cycle refrigerator."
"Intermodulation is one of the most pernicious forms of spurious response in superheterodyne receivers. This type of interference cannot be completely eliminated by narrowband filters. Improvements in receiver performance can be made only by improving and making more effective use of the mixing element. Intermodulation results from terms of higher order than two in the v-i power series expansion about the dc operating point of the mixing element. The magnitude of these higher order terms must be reduced in order to improve intermodulation rejection. In the work described in this paper, it has been observed that such a reduction in higher order terms can be obtained by proper design of the mixing element and by a proper choice of dc operating point. More than 80 dB intermodulation rejection was obtained with a single ended hot carrier diode mixer. Best performance is obtained by operating two hot carrier diodes at different operating points in a balanced mixer arrangement. Intermodulation ratios greater than 100 dB have been measured for this operating mode. Optimization of performance for IM rejection has little effect on sensitivity or rejection of other spurious responses. A new mixing element, the space-charge-limited resistor (SCLR), was designed to minimize the higher order terms in the current function. A balanced mixer provided the best performance with these mixing elements also. Intermodulation from +5 dBm inputs can be rejected below the mixer noise level. Early models of this device are not as sensitive as hot carrier mixers, but improvement appears to be possible."
"The stanford two-mile linear accelerator uses 240, single-input-port, four output-port, S-band, rectangular-waveguide networks to feed RF energy sixty to seventy feet from the klystrons above ground to ten-foot-long, disk-leaded, circular-waveguide, accelerator sections below ground. During installation it is necessary to permanently adjust the phase lengths of the four network branches to be within /spl plusmn/4.5 electrical degrees of the design lengths for RF wave and electron beam synchronization. A modulated reflection phase-length comparison method is used, whereby a small signal is sent into each branch and reflected, in turn, by a diode switch, which is turned on and off at a 1 kHz rate. A null occurs in the amplitude modulation of the sum of a large reference signal and the small reflected signal, when the two signals are nearly in-phase quadrature. The reflectors are placed so that the network branches are properly adjusted when the nulls from all branches occur for the same setting of a variable phase shifter in the measurement line. Small mismatches and multiple power divisions do not affect the accuracy of this method. Frequency, temperature, and air pressure are the main environmental conditions affecting the measurement and are discussed along with the design of the reflecting diode switch, which is mounted in a vacuum-sealed waveguide flange."
"Sampling techniques as used in wideband oscilloscopes have, in the past, yielded bandwidths up to 4000 MHz. This approach has now been employed to achieve bandwidths in excess of 15 GHz. The design requirements necessary for this extended bandwidth are presented along with a detailed description of one solution to the design problem. The device is basically a two-diode sampler located at the center of a dielectric filled, biconical cavity containing the RF transmission line. The RF line is perpendicular to the axis of the biconical cavity. The sampling pulse is introduced into the cavity by applying it directly between the centers of the opposite faces of the cavity. This establishes a potential difference between two points on the ground conductor of the RF transmission line being sampled. This technique is basic to the operation of the device and plays a key role in the reduction of sampling loop inductance, which would limit the bandwidth. The equivalent circuits are presented along with the appropriate defining equations. The relationship between bandwidth, input VSWR, and step response overshoot, are presented, along with the typical measured results."
"TEM propagation on an array of parallel conductors is described in terms of the normalized static capacitance matrix. Important properties of capacitance matrices are discussed and a physical and network interpretation is given to a useful linear transformation of the static capacitance matrix. Several practical applications of capacitance matrix transformations are given. These include 1) equivalent circuits for directional couplers with equal terminations, 2) design procedures for directional couplers with unequal terminations, and 3) element value tables and design details for compact coaxial filter-transformers. Construction details and experimental results are presented for a 3:1 bandwidth filter-transformer constructed with multiple re-entrant coaxial lines."
"It is possible, at present, to obtain multioctave bandwidth in symmetrical couplers that employ cascaded quarter-wave-length sections of uniformly coupled line. However, the physical junctions between the various sections contribute reactive discontinuities, which significantly degrade coupler directivity. This paper describes a coupler design employing a continuously tapered coupling coefficient that helps to circumvent the directivity problem. Two classes of couplers have been investigated, including one which provides optimum equal-ripple performance. Synthesis has been performed with the aid of both digital and fourier integral computers. Somewhat tighter center coupling is required in the tapered design to produce bandwidth-mean-coupling-level performance comparable to stepped-coupling design. Experimental data is presented on several models constructed in three-layer polyolefin stripline."
"This paper is concerned with the optimum design of a light beam waveguide constructed with a proposed lens-like medium, namely, a hyperbolic-type gas lens which has a hyperbolic temperature distribution on its transverse cross section. In such a medium, the temperature distribution is ideally quadratic in the transverse directions, and so the mode conversion due to the higher order variation of the dielectric constant can be minimized. Moreover, this guide has the following merits; the design procedure is simple, the mode matching at the input part is easy, and it is possible to construct a waveguide using ordinary air as the lens medium. And this consideration can be easily extended to the guide with curved configuration. It was shown that the experimental convergency of this gas lens was in agreement with the theoretical one."
"A stripline, three-port remanence circulator switch has been designed for high-speed switching of time delay in a phased array RADAR at S-band (2.9 GHz). Special attention was devoted to minimizing switching time and energy through design of the magnetic circuit and suppression of eddy currents. Temperature stabilization of insertion phase was accomplished by means of a flux regulating magnetic circuit. Switching performance: time: less than 10 micro-seconds; energy: 450 microjoules. Circulator performance: bandwidth for >26 dB isolation, 8.9 percent; insertion loss, 0.35 dB. Temperature stability of insertion phase: one electrical degree per 10/spl deg/C. Peak RF power: 15 kW. The discussion includes details of the junction design and performance, techniques of eddy current suppression, temperature stabilization, and the method of switching energy measurements."
"The development of a fast switching, small, lightweight latching three-port ferrite circulator is outlined. Geometrical configurations, as relating to the toroidal ferrite element and their apparent effects on operating characteristics, are presented. Considerations relating to the proper selection of ferromagnetic materials, compatible with latching applications, are discussed. The finalized device operates at 35 GHz with an instantaneous bandwidth of 5 percent. Total weight is less than 0.6 oz, while total volume is less than 0.750 cubic inch. Performance characteristics are presented, showing a maximum insertion loss of 0.50 dB and a minimum isolation of 15.0 dB, while switching times of less than 0.3 /spl mu/s have been achieved (under dynamic operating conditions). The unit exhibits highly stable characteristics over the temperature range of -60/spl deg/C to + 100/spl deg/C."
"An X-band, circularly-polarized, nonreciprocal, ferrite phase shifter has been developed whose size and electrical performance are favorably suited for use in transmission or reflection-type phased arrays requiring element center-to-center spacings of about 0.5 /spl lambda/. The phase shifter has the same configuration as a Faraday rotator with a ferrite rod located at the center of a circular waveguide with an axially applied field. If a circularly polarized wave is passed through this geometry, a nonreciprocal phase-current characteristic is obtained. The array antenna is configured so that no phase-control field reversals are needed between transmit and receive modes of RADAR operation. The radiating element has been designed as an integral part of the beam steering element using waveguide array simulator techniques, this paper will discuss various design problems and performance of the beam steering element. A 1300-element phased array was constructed and tested. Its performance, as it relates to the phase-setting accuracy of 1300 phase-shifter constituents, is stated briefly."
"This paper is concerned with the development of a nonreciprocal, digital, slow wave phase shifter which combines submicrosecond switching times with a compact strip transmission line structure. After a qualitative explanation of the operation of the phase shifter is given, an analysis of the dispersion characteristics of the meander line is presented. Impedance matching techniques are discussed along with the experimental results. Various design parameters, which affect the device performance, are examined"
"This paper describes a digital-latching phase shifter which combines the electrical advantages of waveguide design with the compactness of a strip transmission-line structure. Two multibit, nonreciprocal, C-band models are described, which combine the electronic drivers and the microwave structure in an 0.8 by 0.8 inch cross section designed specifically for half-wavelength stacking in an antenna array. A new technique of antisymmetric dielectric loading to convert microwave energy from a TEM mode in stripline transmission to a TE-type mode propagating in a dielectrically loaded rectangular waveguide is presented. Data for a one-bit model are presented along with an investigation into an optimum material choice. Temperature stability and peak power capability are also discussed. The performance of two multibit models are presented, including VSWR, insertion loss, and average power characteristics of the final microwave structures. Temperature variation of phase shift and peak power performance of these devices are also presented. Particular attention is given the electronic drivers for the multibit models which must latch the toroids into their remanent states. The driver circuit is designed to permit switching of each bit between states with a single wire trigger. Finally, the advantages of this design over previous miniaturized models are summarized, and further investigations into other features for greater optimization are suggested."
"Contains an entry for each author and co-author included in this publication."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"This index covers all technical items that appeared in this periodical during the year."
"Presents the back cover of the Transactions issue."
"In SiO capacitors, deposition rate and thickness interact in their effect on leakage resistance. Slow (2 Å/s) and fast (20 Å/s) deposited films in the 2000-Å thickness range exhibit almost a million-fold difference in leakage, while similar rates, for 10000-Å films, show only a thousand-fold difference. Dissipation factor and temperature coefficient of capacitance (TCC), under the same conditions, also show extreme variation: dissipation factor from 0.003 (slow films) to 0.075 (fast, thin films), and TCC from < 40 ppm/°C (slow films) to 5700 ppm/°C (fast, thin films). Life tests of SiO capacitors were conducted at 85°C for periods up to 14 000 hours. They included capacitors with a thick (about 10 000 Å) dielectric layer and ones with a thin (about 1000 Å) layer. The thicker ones were under a potential of 47 volts dc and the thinner ones 10 volts dc. In addition, a small group of thick capacitors were held at 125°C, 67 volts dc for a much shorter time, about 6000 hours. The test results for thick 85°C capacitors were that no permanent dielectric failures occurred during the test period and dielectric properties were unchanged from those at the start of the test. Among the 60 thin capacitors, four failures (on the same substrate) occurred during the final tenth of the life test period. Visual inspection indicated that aluminum electrode corrosion was responsible. Ten capacitors maintained at 125°C (only three under voltage stress) were in perfect condition at the conclusion of the test. Their capacitance had not changed significantly but the dissipation factor improved from 0.0075 to 0.0034 (average value of ten capacitors). The most significant finding regarding long-term instability is that aluminum electrodes often deteriorate, sometimes causing dielectric failure."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"The formal solution is obtained for the transient thermal response of a rectangular region with orthotropic thermal conductivity, Joulean heating, and general boundary conditions (where the temperature in the surrounding medium is a function of both space and time). In the most practical case, where the surrounding medium is at a constant ambient temperature, the transient solution takes the form of a rapidly converging doubly infinite sum whose leading term is a very simple and accurate approximation for the thermal response. Graphical aids are presented which allow the designer to quickly obtain estimates of the temperature distribution, the maximum temperature, the average temperature, the heat flow from the boundaries, and the thermal time constant. A new and interesting result is that the solution indicates that no steady-state condition exists if the heat transfer coefficients on the boundaries are below certain critical values, or if the current density is above a critical value."
"A description and analysis are presented of the fabrication and electrical properties of a non-ferroelectric material with a high apparent dielectric constant over a wide frequency range into the megacycle region. This material is zinc oxide with additions of bismuth oxide. Specific attention is focused on those properties which make the material uniquely suited for microminiature high-frequency low impedance decoupling capacitors. With proper processing, apparent dielectric constants on the order of 1500 at 5 Mc/s are reached. Using silk screening techniques, capacitors with values up to 100µF/in2have been obtained, but at the expense of a very low (10\\Omega-cm) dc resistivity. Usable devices with dc resistances of a few hundred to a few thousand ohms have capacitances in the I to 50 µF region. This device is also capable of strongly attenuating inductive noise signals and exhibits a constant total impedance of 2 to 3 ohms in the 10 to 100 mc/s range."
"A novel, easier technique is described for separating thin film and printed circuit master drawings with near-perfect registration for microelectronic production-masking purposes By employing inexpensive, readily manufactured, and easily identifiable strips or rolls of adhesive-backed transparent birefringent plastic tape, there results a more accurate, less costly, less tedious, and less time-consuming method of separating up to six zero-registration circuit configurations from a single master artwork original. Using ordinary incandescent lamps, two small off-the-shelf rotatable polarizing filters, and a good quality reduction camera, each component-type or other desired circuit configuration is photographically separated in quick succession with required near-zero error registration marks by taking advantage of the known angular rotation of the plane of polarization characteristic of each type of birefringent tape. Simple, straightforward directions for draftsmen and technicians can be readily developed from the description of the technique."
"In present compact electronic equipment, efficient cooling is a prime design factor. Certain aspects of the current state of the art of cooling are subjected to continuing controversy. In an electronic equipment, cooled by forced air flow, fans may be placed at the air inlet location, at the air outlet, or at both locations. Depending on the location of fans, a different air flow pattern is generated within the equipment. One essential factor which determines cooling efficiency is the escape of air from the module circuit chamber to adjacent spaces in the equipment. The escaping air ceases to absorb heat from the electronic modules. Thus, cooling efficiency is closely linked to the containment of air, or air flow pattern, and hence, to the fan location. A logical and a mathematical analysis on the subject is here presented. Mathematical results are summarized. An appendix contains detailed mathematical derivations."
"Walls must often serve as conduction heat paths in many industrial applications. For the general case where heat is uniformly supplied to a wall or plate, the heat to be conducted down the wall to a heat sink, the question arises whether the wall should be of uniform thickness or tapered, for a given volume of material. The wall giving the smaller temperature drop could be considered the better design in utilizing the given weight of material. In many cases the wall is thin and long, and the problem can be reduced to one-dimensional heat transfer as shown."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Drastic wear under very dry high altitude or space conditions is considered to be due to a lack of a contact film. When this film is absent, electron exchange between metallic members can produce metallic bonds which are of the same order of magnitude in strength as those of soft metals. The contact between a metal and graphite also exhibits considerable bond strength. Such bonds result in galling, seizure, high wear rates, and in some cases, the end result is poor electrical conduction. Graphite alone is not sufficient to provide a suitable contact film for sliding conduction under space conditions. It is an electron conductor, and it is therefore possible that it can make weak metallic bonds with the metals in the absence of moisture or organic vapors. A large list of chemical compounds, some of which are laminar, like graphite, and some of which are not, like lithium carbonate, can prevent drastic wear."
"This paper describes recent work in the science of the separable electronic pressure contact with emphasis on chemical factors in performance. The following topics are discussed: growth and morphology of sulfide tarnish films which creep across the interface between gold plate and silver or copper alloys and degrade contact performance; the formation and structure of corrosion solids on porous gold electroplated contacts, and which originate in atmospheres polluted with sulfur dioxide or hygroscopic dusts; new developments in measuring the porosity in precious metal plates; the critical dependence of the porosity of gold plate on substrate roughness; and new concepts for developing electronic connectors with contacts made of base metals."
"In computer equipment, the large number of connector type contacts alone require a very reliable component. There is a definite need for obtaining a better understanding of the modes of failure in real-life environments so that new and better test methods can be developed. This paper reviews testing methods and the philosophy of evaluating electrical contacts."
"The manner in which two conductors touch to form an electrical contact is described, and the influence of the phenomena occurring at the interface on the engineering properties of the connector is discussed. In the last ten years, significant advances have been made in our knowledge of the mechanical, electrical, and thermal aspects of the contact between surfaces. These have led to a better understanding of the deterioration processes which occur naturally in connectors. A new philosophy of the evaluation and specification of connectors which utilizes these results and which links the engineering reliability of the device to the basic science of the interface is discussed."
"A survey evaluation of the quality of commercial silicon used in the preparation of p-n junction devices has been made, with emphasis on the detection and characterization of micro-inhomogeneities. The examination techniques included transmission electron microscopy, special etching techniques with optical microscopy, and microresistivity determination. These investigations have shown that almost all silicon produced by current commercial techniques has an appreciable concentration of microdefects, including precipitates and microcrystallographic defects, which are too small to be detected by conventional techniques. Furthermore the impurity distribution is inhomogeneous on a microscopic scale. These microinhomogeneities are frequently present in sufficient concentration to be more influential in determining the quality of the finished device than the material properties usually specified. Some suggestions are made concerning the establishment of standards of acceptability for the major types of microdefects and for developing simple, rapid evaluation procedures."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"The bibliography contains 181 references on thin dielectric films, interfaces and surfaces. A brief commentary on each entry is included. The references are grouped according to the following subject areas: Fabrication, Measurement Techniques, Propersies, Models, and Surface States."
"A system is described for measuring length (width) changes in printed-circuit substrates under environmental (temperature/humidity) changes. A fixture for samples 20 inches in length is also described. Data are given for temperature coefficient and humidity coefficient of epoxy-glass substrates 0.010 in and 0.020 in thick, both bare and partially covered with an etched copper pattern. Two approximate mathematical models are discussed. One is static and linear; the other is time-dependent and nonlinear, but treated as a linear expansion. Additional Key Words for Information Retrieval--Circuit boards, circuit stability, dimensional stability, environmental effects, humidity coefficient of expansion, measurement of X-Y coordinates, substrates, temperature coefficient of expansion."
"This paper describes a printed wiring board manufacturing process which assures a crack-free plated-through-hole. The continuity between layers of printed circuit boards is achieved by depositing electroless copper followed by electroplated copper in a hole drilled through the layers. It was found that conventional boards were subject to cracking at the barrel of these holes during soldering. The incipient cracking, due to the differential in coefficient of linear thermal expansion of the G-1O, epoxy-glass and the electrodeposited copper is eliminated by the use of a ductile layer of cyanide copper."
"Ceramic dielectrics were prepared by dispersing a high dielectric constant phase in a beryllium oxide matrix. The dispersant phases were doped futile (Ti02) 'rod strontium and calcium til:anate. The microwave dielectric constants varied from 10 to 23 as a function of the amount of dispersed phase. The room temperature thermal conductivity of the same mixture-compositions varied from 0.27 to 0.6 cal/(cm, sec. °C). Mixture equations proved inadequate tcpredict the dielectric constant and thermal conductivity with any significant degree of accuracy. Loss tangents were generally 0.0007, or lower, except for strontium titanate which undergoes a relaxation at microwave frequencies, titus the mixture-loss was raised to 0.0024. The ceramic mixtures sintered to densities typically higher than 97% of theoretical and yielded flexural strengths of the order of 38 000 lbf/in2. These values compare favorably with those of single phrase BeO ceramics."
"High-density microelectronic circuity requires interconnection wire diameters of less than 0.005 inch and pad sizes less than 25 X 10-6square inch. Most ohmic contact pads on chips are aluminum as the material with the least of possible evils. Metallization of substrates to interconnect chips commonly consists of chromium for adhesion and gold or aluminum for conductivity. Substrate materials are chosen on the basis of dieleetrie strength, dielectric constant, dissipation factor, thermal conductivity, thermal expansion, and surface finish. Ultrasonic bonding avoids the troubles caused by the high temperatures employed for thermocompression and 'wedge bounding. Parallel-gap welding can be used on very small pads. Laser and electron beam welding techniques are still in the development stage. Difficulties associated with expansion coefficients of different materials in the evaporated leads bonding process can be avoided by careful choice of materials. Flip-chip bonding has the ad.vantages of reducing the number of interconneetion bonds and the package size, but it reduces accessibility for inspection and testing, sometimes requires multilayer cireuitry, and increases thermal resistance and turnaround time for design changes. Ultimately the choice of bond depends on such factors as cost, reliability, ar.d maintainability. When multilayer circuitry is required, choice of a dielectric to insulate crossover points becomes a problem. A knowledge of the advantages and disadvantages of all interconnection rnethods will enable the designer to preplan his circuitry so as to employ a method that is best for his particular application."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"Previous works on nonuniformly spaced arrays are first critically reviewed, then an exhaustive study of a few small arrays is made. The results reveal that among a large number of possible element arrangements, only very few yield reasonably low sidelobe level. Although the majority of these few arrays are characterized by space-tapering, an overwhelming number of space-tapered arrays do not have low sidelobe level. Some statistical studies are made in order to relate the sidelobe level to the element arrangement. Finally, in the light of rather complete information of these arrays, a comparative study is made on some designs which are proposed by a few authors. The results show that none of them are truly optimum."
"The geometrical theory of diffraction is applied to the calculation of the radiation pattern and impedance of a monopole antenna on a perfectly conducting circular ground plane of limited extent. In this calculation, the radiation problem is resolved into two components, one being the monopole contribution and one the edge contribution. The impedance problem is resolved into the components of a reflection from the monopole in an infinite ground plane and a reflection from the circular edge as seen through the antenna. The known solutions of these individual components then permit the calculation of the overall radiation pattern and impedance by superposition. The techniques described are general and are considered applicable to a large class of similar radiating structures."
"The generation of harmonic waves by a plane electromagnetic wave normally incident on a collision-free plasma with a linear density profile is considered. The solution for the primary wave in the plasma region is first obtained, and nonlinear polarization currents for the higher harmonics are expressed in terms of the lower harmonic fields by a perturbation method. The analysis shows that the plasma excites a longitudinally oscillating second harmonic electric field which is totally confined inside the plasma and has a singularity. The third harmonic wave excited in the plasma, however, radiates back into free space, although the effect is negligibly small in a quasi-homogeneous limit. The amplitude of this radiated field oscillates as a function of\\omega^{3}, and the electron density gradient has little effect on it."
"A comparison is made between center fed antennas consisting of a thin-walled circular tube and of a solid conducting cylinder of the same radius and length. The distributions of the surface current in the two cases are obtained by numerical solution of integral equations for the electric field strength in the extensions of the antenna surface. The current distribution and the radiation patterns are calculated for wavelength-to-radius ratios 10, 30, and 100, with the half length of the antenna equal to 0.23, 0.50, and 0.73 wavelengths."
"The scattering properties of antennas are discussed in terms of the scattering matrix. It is shown that one retains some control over the scattering properties of the antenna after the radiation pattern is specified and the scattering matrix can be used to optimize these scattering properties. The scattering matrix is used to design a simple antenna which absorbs more power than it scatters under conjugate-matched conditions. A loop-dipole configuration is given which corresponds to the scattering matrix."
"A correlation technique for measuring the complete far-field patterns of large-aperture antennas is described and evaluated analytically. The technique uses radio-star sources and employs an auxiliary antenna for providing a reference signal for crosscorrelation with the test-antenna signal. The major advantages provided by the correlation method, relative to single-antenna radiometric systems, are improved sensitivity, greater interference rejection, and the capability for measuring polarization and phase responses of test antennas, in addition to their gain pattern. Full realization of the ultimate capabilities of the technique requires the performance of crosscorrelation for high ratios of pre-detection to post-detection bandwidths."
"A monopole antenna is considered to be bombarded by a flux of gamma rays propagating normally to the axis of the antenna. As a result of this bombardment, electrons are scattered from the antenna, thus charging the antenna positively. This induces a current in the load impedance of the antenna-appearing as if the antenna were receiving a transient RF signal. An expression for the time dependent voltage across the load impedance of the antenna is obtained by considering that every electron scattered from the antenna never returns and that the antenna impedance and capacitance are their free-space values."
"For wide-angle scanning array antennas, the magnitude of the reflection changes substantially with scan angle and wave polarization. Conventional matching techniques in the individual element feed lines cannot compensate for these changes. There is a method of wide-angle impedance matching (WAIM) which utilizes a thin, high-k, dielectric sheet spaced in front of the array. It is capable of equalizing the reflection coefficient forEandHpolarization at any specified scan angle, or for any angle in theEandHscan planes. This technique is applied to an array having element aperture windows flush with a metal face. It is adapted for the procedure of matching in a waveguide simulation of an infinite array."
"It has recently been suggested that microwave antennas may be simulated at optical frequencies using the neon-helium continuous gas laser. The present paper discusses various aspects of this problem and presents a simulation example using as a model the 96-element Australian array used to scan the surface of the sun at 80 megacycles. An optical system can be used for simulation in which an objective lens obtains the Fourier transform of the antenna aperture field which may be photographed. An additional lens produces an image of the antenna aperture field in the same air space as the far field pattern, thus permitting photographs of near field as well as far field patterns. Antenna masters are made as optical transparencies using photographic plates or film. Phasing may be obtained by using a variable thickness optical material evaporated on glass. Various combinations of array distribution, antenna weighting, and phasing are possible to simulate. Atmospheric perturbations are introduced on the antenna pattern by the use of two-dimensional phase delay patterns. Photographs are presented of the antenna aperture field, the far field pattern and several intermediate near field patterns."
"Integral formulas are developed directly from vector field theory for scattering by a perfectly conducting irregular surface at very short wavelengths. It is shown that, in the optical limit, the back-scattered field has no cross polarized component. When the integrals are evaluated asymptotically by the method of stationary phase, it turns out that to a first approximation the back scattering cross section is proportional to the average number of specular points which are illuminated at a given angle of incidence and to the geometric mean of the principal radii of curvature at those points. The scattering problem is, thus, transformed to a problem in the statistical geometry of irregular surfaces."
"A significant reduction in the minor lobe radiation pattern of a rectangular pyramidal horn antenna is obtained by placing a choke around the aperture of the antenna and adjusting the choke to approximately a quarter wave in depth. The reduced minor lobe radiation means less scattering and a higher efficiency. The choke also results in an improvement in the antenna gain with a measurably narrower beam. A minor variation of approximately 10 percent, peak to peak, is obtained in the antenna input impedance for choke depths varying from zero to a quarter of a wave."
"A very wide-band solar radiospectrograph employing an untuned parametric up-converter is described. The receiver has a noise figure of 9.0-12.5 dB and, in conjunction with a 30-foot-diameter parabolic aerial with log-periodic feed, is capable of detecting the thermal background radiation of the quiet Sun over a continuous single-band frequency coverage of 200-2000 Mc/s. Problems in the design of untuned parametric up-converters are discussed, and measurements made on the equipment described show that the gain is much greater than that predicted by the \"three-frequency\" theory of parametric amplifiers, although no provision has been made to optimize the loading for the idler frequency component. This type of receiver is capable of further development both as regards increased sensitivity, extension of the frequency range, and application to different parts of the radio spectrum. Examples of spectra of solar outburts in the range 200-2000 Mc/s are given."
"This paper describes the principal electrical and mechanical features of a millimeter-wave antenna facility. The basic instrumentation consists of a 15-foot (4.57 meter) diameter parabolic antenna, a servo control system, an on-line general purpose computer, and radiometric receiving equipment. In the zenith attitude position of the antenna reflector, the measured contour accuracy, with respect to a true parabola, is 0.0018-inch rms. At horizon attitudes, the rms value degrades to 0.0036 inch. These contour accuracy measurements include the effects of partial solar heating and wind velocities up to 20 mph. Although the reflector is not unusually large physically, it is extremely large in terms of electrical aperture; i.e.,D/\\lambda = 1436at 94 Gc/s and 3660 at 240 Gc/s. The measured pointing accuracy is 20 arc-sec (0. 1 mrad) for the overall system. The tracking rate ranges from0.001\\deg/s to3\\deg/s. The facility features automatic program control. Ephemeris data existing on magnetic tape or in computer memory provide real-time attitude control of the antenna. High-resolution measurement of the lunar surface during the total eclipse of December 30, 1963, at a wavelength of 3.2 mm (94 Gc/s) is described. Specific areas of the lunar surface were monitored before, during, and after the eclipse. A summary of the relative brightness temperatures and the cooling rates of the observed areas is included. A typical high-resolution radiometric contour map of the moon is also shown."
"A modal method is employed to construct the solution for the fields radiated by a linearly phased electric line current and by an electric current element oriented arbitrarily in a plane parallel to an infinite, unidirectionally conducting screen. In addition to the radiation field which is calculated, these sources generate surface waves with drastically different behavior for the two types of excitation. This aspect, related to the anisotropy of the surface, is explored and is clarified by the consideration of a source of finite extent which reveals both the quasi-line source and quasi-point source characteristics. The peculiarities of surface waves on this anisotropic structure are given detailed consideration and are explained in simple physical terms. The present analysis contains results more general than those published recently in the literature [1]-[4], and it exhibits the connection between certain alternative but quite dissimilar forms of the solution."
"The family of surfaces of revolution obtained from conic sections are the sphere, ellipsoid, paraboloid, hyperboloid, and plane. These \"conic\" surfaces find various uses as reflectors in antenna systems because of their focusing or imaging properties. When any of the \"conic\" reflectors are used, it is of interest to specify an \"ideal\" polarization of the incident field such that the currents induced in the reflector flow in parallel paths. This specification will permit the reflector to be formed by parallel conducting wires or slats. This paper presents a method for determining the \"ideal\" feed polarization that should be incident upon a \"conic\" reflector. It is specified in terms of the polarization characteristics of elemental electric and magnetic dipoles. It will be shown that for any \"conic\" surface, the \"ideal\" polarization can always be specified in terms of crossed electric and magnetic dipoles whose relative intensities are related to the eccentricity of the \"conic\" reflector."
"Plane waves in a nonconducting charge-free medium with a permittivity given by\\epsilon(t) = \\epsilon/(1 -2p \\cos 2\\Omega t)can be written as products of Mathieu functions and exponentials\\exp (ikx). The behavior of the waves, which depends on the choice of the wave numberk, is deduced entirely from the properties of the Mathieu functions. In a periodically varying medium of infinite extent, one encounters exponentially increasing waves for certain bands of wave numbers. The existence of such waves in a permittivity-modulated slab immersed in a medium of arbitrary constant permittivity is investigated by attempting to satisfy the condition of continuity of the fields at the interfaces. It is found that the modulation index2pmust exceed a critical value if exponentially increasing waves are to be produced. This critical value is shown to depend on the width of the slab and on the relation of the permittivities of the slab and the surrounding medium. For the case that2pis less than that critical value, the response of the slab to a normally incident plane wave is described. It is shown that the slab may be designed to act as a parametric oscillator, amplifier, filter, or frequency converter."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"The log periodic Yagi-Uda array is introduced in this paper. The concept used for extending the frequency bandwidth of the basic Yagi-Uda antenna by employing log periodic principles is presented; and its connection with the log periodic array with parasitic elements is established on the basis of the measured performance. The results of experiments on a log periodic Yagi-Uda dipole array show that the antenna characteristics of the basic antenna are preserved with frequency. Because of the mirror symmetry of the structure, it is shown that a log periodic monopole is realizable."
"A numerical evaluation of the integrals that constitute the formal solution of the problem of a vertical dipole, which is situated in a homogeneous, warm plasma half-space above a perfectly conducting plane, is considered. An asymptotic series expansion is obtained for these integrals by the double saddle point method of integration. The dominant terms of the solution in the far field are shown to consist of a surface wave, which arises from the residue of a pole, and a space wave, which is the leading term of the saddle point contribution. The space wave is identified as the geometrical ray approximation to the solution. It is demonstrated that the surface wave can propagate when the source frequency is either above or below the plasma frequency. The transfer of power from an incident acoustical (p) mode to a boundary-generated electromagnetic (e) mode, and from an incident e mode to a boundary-generatedpmode, is investigated at a plasma-conductor interface. It is evident in both situations that only a small percentage of the incident power is transformed into the boundary-generated mode. In the case of a vertical dipole, however, it is shown that, at source frequencies which are near to the plasma frequency, the power in the incidentpmode is much larger than that in theemode. Thus, the boundary-generatedemode, which is due to the incidentpmode, is as large as the reflectedemode due to an incidentemode. As a result of this effect, it is pointed out that one can represent the reflectedemode by two image sources."
"The radiation characteristics of a vertical electric dipole which is situated in a homogeneous, warm plasma half-space above a perfectly conducting plane, is considered. The problem is formulated in terms of two vector potential functions, one of which is used to represent the electromagnetic mode, while the other is used to represent the acoustical mode. The potentials are expressed in terms of their Fourier integral representations, and the formal solution is found by the use of signal-flow graphs."
"This paper presents a method of making a swept-frequency antenna gain measurement which yields a result based upon the known gain vs. frequency of a standard antenna. This antenna consists of a 295-mm length ofX-band waveguide with a cover flange on one end. It is an inexpensive and very satisfactory gain standard. The error analysis, which gives the accuracy of the resulting gain figure, consists of evaluating the conjugate mismatch losses at the antenna feed point or junction. This method of measuring gain is shown to yield useful gain data from an antenna test range that is not free of reflections. Gain vs. frequency curves are given for the standard gain antenna and a test antenna, having estimated accuracies of at least 0.27 dB and 1.00 dB, respectively."
"Edge diffraction theory is used in analyzing the radiation characteristics of typical horn antennas. The far-sidelobe and backlobe radiation has been solved without employing field equivalence principles which are impractical in the problem. A corner reflector with a magnetic line source located at the vertex is proposed as a model for the principalE-plane radiation of horn antennas. A complete pattern, including multiple interactions and images of induced line sources, is obtained in infinite series form. Diffraction mechanisms are used for appropriate approximations in the computations. The computed patterns are in excellent agreement with measured patterns of typical horn antennas. Radiation intensity of the backlobe relative to mainlobe intensity is obtained as a back-to-front ratio and plotted as a function of antenna dimensions."
"We have computed the response of a thin, cylindrical monopole antenna to dc pulse excitation, both in transmission and reception, by use of Fourier transforms and the complex impedance and complex effective height, for pulses of space length ranging from two tenths to twice the monopole length. We have also experimentally determined the reponse and have obtained similar results. We conclude from this comparison that present steady-state antenna theory together with Fourier methods will yield reliable results in calculating the response of cylindrical antennas to dc pulses. We have also made certain other measurements of response to pulses and step functions which are reported herein."
"A numerical analysis of an infinite phased array of open rectangular waveguides has been made which includes the effects of wall thickness. Two planes of scan, theHand quasi-Eplanes, have been considered. In these cases, the general vector problem can be expressed in the form of a scalar one-dimensional Fredholm integral equation of the first kind. The approximate fields obtained numerically from the integral equation are used for the evaluation of the input complex reflection coefficient. A variational expression for the reflection coefficient is developed and used for improving the accuracy. Numerical results for theHand quasi-Eplane scans are presented as a function of wall thickness and scan angle. Agreement with experimental results is very good."
"The radiation impedance of an infinite array of open rectangular waveguides has been calculated by a function-theoretic method forHplane and quasi-Eplane beam scanning directions. The mutual coupling between columns has also been obtained. The amplitudes of the coupling coefficients decay asymptotically asr^{-3/2}while the phase difference between successive coupling coefficients approaches that to be expected from free space wave propagation. This asymptotic behavior is independent of waveguide dimensions for both planes of scan. It is similar to the asymptotic behavior of a line-source-excited wave propagating over a lossy surface. This suggests that the interface between an array and free space may in general be treated as such a surface. The coupling coefficients are used to determine the properties of an array, which has a finite number of active elements surrounded by an infinite passive array. Also, the edge effect due to the finiteness of an array is evaluated."
"The mathematical analysis of electromagnetic wave scattering by radially inhomogeneous spherical objects is treated. Numerical integration of the differential equations for the separated radial wave functions has been carried out for the case of a plasma with an exponential electron density gradient, Parametric calculations of bistatic scattering have given many interesting results. The range of validity of the Born approximation has been demonstrated by comparing it with computed results."
"The King-Sandler array theory is used to analyze the excitation of a surface wave along a semi-infinite Yagi array, as well as the scattering of such a wave at the end of a semi-infinite array. A method for approximately analyzing the behavior of finite Yagi arrays is presented which involves the matching of two terminal-zone solutions for semi-infinite arrays. Before attempting to correlate the derived theory with the more rigorous array theory, an experimental study of a twenty-element Yagi array was undertaken, and all results are shown to be accurately predicted by the King-Sandler theory. An extensive set of numerical data is presented to compare wave theory with array theory, and once again the agreement is excellent. Finally, the new theory is shown to predict a certain critical point in the data at which the wave solution ceases to exist. This point is also observed to enter dramatically into the King-Sandler solution, thus providing a final contribution to the evidence which links the wave theory to the accepted King-Sandler theory."
"A new UHF-VHF antenna has been designed that is electrically small and exhibits multioctave bandwidth properties. This electrical hybrid design features ruggedness, light weight, compactness, and low profile. Experimental results indicate that the Slotted Cone Antenna radiates primarily vertical polarization and, like the monopole, exhibits an omnidirectional radiation characteristic."
"Two linear flat strip antennas lie in an interface between several dielectric layers. The mutual and self-impedance of the antennas is computed, based on a variational formulation of the antenna impedance with symmetrical and antisymmetrical excitation conditions. For free space surrounding the antennas, the present variational formulation provides a closer agreement with measurements than past solutions of the iterative type. For antennas in a dielectric slab, the mutual impedance is shown to be increased by increasing electrical thickness of the layer, but decreased by increasing dielectric losses. The present calculations tend to agree with transmission line approximations of the antenna impedance for insulated antennas in a highly lossy medium, but the two sets of calculations differ for small antenna separations and for lower dielectric losses, in particular if the permittivity of the lossy medium is also lower."
"This paper is concerned with the problem of finding the illuminations on two planar antennas (directed toward each other) which maximize the efficiency of the power transfer between them. The two apertures are generally different and their separation, sizes, and shapes are arbitrary (with the exception of some symmetry requirements). It is shown that the optimal phase distributions are such that the two antennas are focused on each other. The optimal amplitude distributions are equal to the field patterns of the mode with minimum diffraction loss in two confocal resonator mirrors, whose separation, sizes, and shapes are equal to those of the apertures in question. For the particular case of rectangular antennas, the optimal amplitude distributions are given by Prolate Spheroidal Wave Functions. The Power Transfer Coefficient between two equal square apertures has been calculated for optimal and uniform (focused and unfocused) illuminations. For moderate to small separations the optimal illuminations yield a very significant increase of the efficiency of the power transfer."
"Scalar multiple scattering from randomly distributed, discrete point scatterers is investigated numerically by solving the problem exactly on a point-by-point basis and comparing it with the behavior of a single \"bulk\" scatterer, which, as assumed in available multiple-scattering theory [1]-[3], is an \"average\" substitute for the assembly. Apart from providing a check on the theory, the effect of inhomogeneities in the distribution can be investigated very conveniently by this scheme, whenever a solution is possible. The main conclusion is that, at relatively high frequencies, the amount and angular distribution of the backward-scattered energy depends very critically on these inhomogeneities."
"The general propagation characteristics of 3.3-mm waves through the atmosphere are determined. The measured absorption of the atmosphere is in fair agreement with the Van Vleck-Weisskopf theory. An approximation for the zenith attenuation in decibels through the atmosphere is0.28+0.31w, wherewis the precipitable water in centimeters. The effects of varying attenuation on the determination of the brightness temperature of extraterrestrial sources is considered. The usual radio refraction expression appears adequate for 3.3-mm waves for zenith angles less than 70 degrees."
"The backscattering characteristics of various types of insects found in the lower atmosphere were measured and the results are reported in this paper. The magnitudes of the insect cross sections and the effects of incident electromagnetic energy polarization are presented along with physical characteristics of the insects. The measuring equipment is described and its capability discussed."
"In Part I the admittance and impedance of a two-element array when immersed in an arbitrary dissipative medium are determined from a generalization of the King-Sandier theory of arrays. Numerical results are given for half-wave and quarter-wave dipoles with two different thicknesses. The distance between the elements is the independent variable. In Part II, experiments carried out in a tank filled with a conducting solution to determine the self and mutual admittances of coupled dipoles are described. The agreement between the measured values and the theory reported in Part I is quite good."
"The scattering of a general hybrid surface wave mode at a reactance discontinuity, on a cylindrical surface waveguide, is considered both theoretically and experimentally. The theory leads to coupled Wiener-Hopf equations, which are solved approximately by assuming the hybrid modes to be mainly TE or TM. The theoretical expressions obtained are evaluated numerically for the symmetrical and dipole modes and compared with experimental results with which substantial agreement is obtained."
"The radiation field of a plasma-clad cylindrical antenna fed across an infinitesimal gap has been derived. The limitations on the validity of the far-field pattern have been stated. In the vicinity of the antenna, but in the region far from the gap, an expression is derived for the surface wave contribution which is the major source of field strength in this region. Analysis of the contour integration and discussion of the location of the various types of poles of the integrand on their appropriate Riemann sheets are presented. Numerical computations of far-field patterns and surface wave fields are presented graphically."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"The relation between group velocity and the velocity of energy transport for surface waves in plane-stratified, anisotropic, dispersive media, which was derived in [1], is verified by direct calculation for the case of surface waves on a uniaxial, cold plasma slab located in free space. A superimposed dc magnetic field of infinite strength and parallel to the interfaces generates the uniaxial anisotropy in the slab. Surface waves having an arbitrary direction of propagation with respect to the dc magnetic field are considered. A useful graphical presentation of the dispersion relation is given, from which the direction of propagation of \"surface wave rays\" is directly obtained."
"Phase error in the aperture field of a microwave paraboloidal antenna degrades antenna gain in two ways: the asynchronism of partial field contributions arriving at an axial field point reduces the magnitude of the total field there, and the phase error may generate a cross-polarized component of the aperture field that further reduces the axial gain. Because of phase ripples in the field reflected from the subdish, a Cassegrainian-fed antenna may be considerably more susceptible to phase-error effects than conventional focal-point-fed antennas. Consequently, a two-part analysis was conducted to evaluate the importance of these phase-error effects in Cassegrainian systems. The feed-system fields were computed and a best-fit phase center was found. Then the axial gain was computed in terms of the feed-system fields. An expression for the phase-error loss was defined to evaluate the effects of diffractive phase ripple, feed-system misalignment, etc. Numerical analyses were carried out for a wide range of antenna parameters. It was concluded that, for a 19-wavelength subdish and a nearly symmetrical phase and amplitude feed pattern, the loss in axial gain due to diffractive phase error may be only a small fraction of a decibel."
"A harmonic series solution is obtained for the scattering of electromagnetic waves by a unidirectionally conducting helical sheath when the incident field isE-polarized. Due to the anisotropic nature of the boundary, bothEandHpolarizations are present in the scattered and the transmitted fields. The expressions for the total scattering cross section, the backscattering cross section, the current, and the surface charge density are also obtained. Some numerical results are presented for a helical structure with a radius that is small or moderate in comparison with the wavelength. An interesting behavior as the pitch angle approaches\\pi/2is described."
"The characteristics of the surface waves sustained by a plane interface which separates semi-infinite regions of vacuum and magnetoionic medium are investigated for the case in which the magnetostatic field is normal to the interface. It is found that plane surface waves exist if the gyromagnetic frequency is less than the plasma frequency and in the range of frequencies lying between the gyromagnetic frequency and1/\\sqrt{2}times the upper hybrid resonant frequency. The phase velocity of the surface waves is always less than the velocity of electromagnetic waves in free space, and it decreases monotonically with the increase in the frequency and goes to zero at1/\\sqrt{2}times the upper hybrid resonant frequency."
"A theory on the minimization of the end-fire radar echo of a long, thin body by an impedance loading technique is presented. When a long, thin body is illuminated by a plane wave in the region of longitudinal incidence, a large backscatter is observed. This backscatter is due to the induced traveling wave which is reflected from the rear end of the body. By an appropriate impedance loading, this backscatter can be minimized. In this paper, the induced current on a long, thin and loaded cylinder is studied. The optimum impedance loading which minimizes the end-fire radar echo is explicitly obtained. Theoretical results are compared with the experimental data and an excellent agreement is obtained."
"The radiation characteristics of a partially coherent illuminated antenna are found for both a circular aperture and a linear antenna. The antenna illumination function is assumed to be Gaussian, and the phase structure function in the plane of the antenna is assumed to be of the formcr^{\\nu}, with\\nu = 1, 5/3, and 2. The beam broadening and reduction in gain in decibels are found to be of the formKb^{\\alpha}, whereKand\\alphaare functions of the antenna illumination and the \"law\" of the phase structure function, andbis a function of the \"level\" of the phase structure function."
"Two aspects of power flow associated with electromagnetic waves in plane-stratified, dispersive, anisotropic media that are also lossless and linear are considered. One aspect is the relation between group velocity and the velocity of energy transport of surface waves in such media. It is shown that the group velocity of surface waves is equal to the ratio of the real part of the complex Poynting vector, integrated over the coordinate of stratification, to the corresponding integral of the stored energy density. The second aspect is the relation between the dyadic surface impedance representing either a slab of plane-stratified medium above a perfectly conducting plane or a semi-infinite region, the latter for the case of evanescent fields, and the power flow in the respective structures. The significance of the surface impedance and power relations for surface waves is discussed."
"The exterior boundary-value problem for a sphere immersed in a compressible plasma medium is solved. The model is a perfectly conducting sphere excited by an aperture, in its surface, which has a specified distribution of the tangential electric field. The configuration is such that Maxwell's equations, when combined with the continuum theory of fluid dynamics, are separable. The sheath at the interface with the plasma is characterized by an absorptive boundary condition which assumes a linear relationship between the pressure and the mean velocity of the electrons. It is shown that the TM (transverse magnetic) waves are coupled with the electroacoustic waves, while the TE (transverse electric) waves are decoupled. Some numerical results are presented which show, in quantitative manner, the relative fraction of the total power which is radiated in the form of electroacoustic waves."
"This paper presents a mathematical analysis of the compound intensity interferometer (a generalization of the interferometer of Hanbury Brown and Twiss) which measures the complex spatial frequency spectrum of remote incoherent radio sources. The system has three elements, two of which are a fixed short distance apart while the third moves along the common baseline. The received signals from the two adjacent elements are multiplied together while the third element's signal is simply square-law detected. This produces two voltages (intensity fluctuations) which are fed through low-frequency band-pass filters to remove the dc value and then are brought together, multiplied, and time-averaged. The interferometer output has two values (a complex output) corresponding to an in-phase and a phase-quadrature multiplication of the RF signals from the two adjacent elements. From a series of measured outputs one can deduce the radio source distribution's spatial frequency spectrum and hence synthesize a radio map of the sources. This fourth-order correlation system has no RF transmission link between its widely separated elements, i.e., between the two fixed elements and the variable third element. Consequently, it is not affected by phase-instability in the interferometer transmission link nor by fluctuations in the atmosphere. However, in common with all intensity interferometers, it is relatively insensitive to weak radio sources."
"Surface waves supported by a ferrite rod, magnetized longitudinally near and below saturation, are studied experimentally using the surface wave resonator technique. Two types of slow waves are found to exist. Their propagation constants depend on the dc magnetic field and rod size. They are interpreted as theHE_{11}mode positive and negative circularly polarized surface waves. For pure circularly polarized waves, a magnetized ferrite is considered as a dielectric with nontensor permeability. A calculation of the propagation constant of these circularly polarized surface waves, based on the dielectric analogy, is made. The agreement between calculation and measurement is close."
"Several methods of selecting simultaneous receive beams from a multiple beam forming antenna are presented. The number of switching junctions required for each method is discussed together with the flexibility of operation of the matrix. It is shown that the amount of flexibility of a switching matrix is dependent on the number of switching junctions used and therefore is dependent on the cost of the matrix. A block selection technique is presented which groups the total input beam positions into blocks of beam positions. This technique, together with a method of selecting clusters of beam positions, is shown to be the most efficient method for selecting simultaneous receive beams. This design requires less than five percent more switching junctions than the total number of receive beam positions."
"Maxwell's equations are replaced by a set of finite difference equations. It is shown that if one chooses the field points appropriately, the set of finite difference equations is applicable for a boundary condition involving perfectly conducting surfaces. An example is given of the scattering of an electromagnetic pulse by a perfectly conducting cylinder."
"An equivalence is demonstrated between a class of rotationally symmetric ring-source-excited three-dimensional scattering problems in a homogeneous region and a related class of line-source-excited two-dimensional problems in an inhomogeneous medium with an inverse square permittivity profile. While mappings from homogeneous to inhomogeneous regions are conventional, the novelty in the present treatment is the accommodation of relatively arbitrary variations in refractive index over the obstacle surface. After a listing of various solvable problems in either category, and the formulation of an equivalence relation for two-dimensional small obstacle scattering, attention is given to the ray configurations for the primary fields and to their perturbation by interposed structures. An analytical and graphical mapping is employed to deduce the curved ray trajectories in the inhomogeneous medium directly from their straight counterparts in the homogeneous case, without the necessity of solving the differential equations for the rays. The relation between the two ray systems provides an interesting insight into analogous scattering phenomena and is used in particular for the study of reflection, caustics, diffraction by a smooth surface, and shadowing."
"An investigation of the scattering from rectangular flat plates has been carried out to determine analytical formulations suitable for the estimation of radar cross section. Simple physical optics theory provides an accurate means of predicting the near-specular values of plate cross section but fails to account for polarization dependence and detailed shape of the cross section vs. angle curve in nonspecular regions. Calculations based upon the geometrical theory of diffraction show excellent agreement with measured data except at edge-on aspects. This correspondence stems, in part, from the fact that the geometrical theory of diffraction is polarization dependent. The paper is concluded with an analytical description of vertical polarization cross section at the edge-on aspect derived on the basis of measurement data."
"The predominant characteristic of propagation in the VHF frequency range is the presence of a reflected wave which tends to cancel the direct wave and results in the received field being proportional to the product of the antenna heights, and inversely proportional to the square of the distance; and the radio gain being independent of frequency. For propagation in the jungle in the meter wavelength range (VHF) between dipole antennas, the radio gain can be expressed\\frac{P_{r}}{P_{t}} = \\lgroup\\frac{3h_{1}h_{2}}{2d^{2}}\\rgroup^{2} \\lgroup\\frac{R_{0}}{R}\\rgroup^{3} F_{s}^{2} F_{j}^{2}whereR_{0}is the radiation resistance of the dipole antenna in free space andRis its value as affected by the proximity of the ground and foliage,F_{s}is the shadow factor that accounts for the curvature of the earth, andF_{j}is the factor that accounts for the effect of the jungle. Measurements made in Thailand indicate that above about 10 MHz,F_{j}is independent of polarization.F_{j}shows no systematic variation with either distance or antenna heights, the average dependence being adequately taken care of by the first factor of the equation. No measurements of (R_{0}/R) were reported except near the ground or foliage; it can be assumed to be unity with little error in this frequency range.F_{j}is a function of frequency, varying from near unity (less than\\pm 5dB) at frequencies below 10 MHz to about 0.1 (-20 dB) and 0.01 (-40 dB) at 100 MHz and 400 MHz, respectively. SinceF_{j}is independent of distance there is no exponential attenuation of ultrashort-waves in the jungle. In fact the effect of the jungle on the direct wave must be almost identical to that on the reflected wave in order not to disturb the almost complete cancellation."
"The effect of surface roughness on the radar backscattering cross section of a perfectly conducting nominally spherical target is examined by applying the Kirchhoff method. It is shown that, for the type of roughness and sphere size to which the Kirchhoff method is applicable, the standard deviation of the cross section increases with frequency according to the law2\\sqrt{2} \\sigma_{0} k\\zetauntil the first Fresnel zone reduces in size to the scale length of the roughness. At this point a knee in the curve occurs and its further course is determined by a more detailed statistical description of the surface. Here\\sigma_{0}is the nominal cross section,\\zetais the standard deviation of the surface heighthandk=2\\pi/\\lambda, where\\lambdais the wavelength. The average cross section is shown to be given by\\sigma_{0}[1+0 \\{(kh)^{3}\\}]. Some experimental results are reported which support the theoretical conclusions."
"The effect of broadband signals on the far-zone field of long arrays is investigated in terms of the energy radiation pattern. A generalized directive gain is introduced which depends on the signal spectrum. With maximum directivity as a criterion it is shown that the problem of optimizing a long isotropic array with respect to a given signal can be associated with a classical eigenvalue problem. The concept of array-bandwidth is introduced. Computed curves for directivity and directive gain are given in terms of this parameter and signal bandwidth. It is shown that while little improvement in directivity is achieved by optimizing the distribution coefficients of an array, a substantial reduction in sidelobe level is obtained when the signal bandwidth is comparable to the array bandwidth."
"An experimental study was undertaken to obtain a more complete picture of wide-band transmission via microwave propagation over mountain-diffraction paths. Such paths are characterized by obstacles of irregular shape, and pathlength very large compared to wavelength. Swept-frequency transmission was used to provide a record of signal-level variations with time and frequency on two different paths. Other observations included polarization dependence, spatial variation, and direct comparison with repeater-relayed signals. The two paths were selected on the basis of obstacle shape; in one case a conical mountain peak, in the other a cylindrically-topped ridge. While the gross features of the data were in agreement with conventional theory, significant detailed departures were noted on the mountain peak path. It was concluded that, in general, the effects of a nonuniform transverse obstacle profile must be taken into account in microwave diffraction. A comparison of data from the two paths supported this conclusion. The \"repeater model\" of diffraction was also examined and found to be of dubious value for the paths in question."
"The normalized self- and mutual admittances of two identical bare circular loop antennas have been evaluated when the loops are immersed in either air or an infinite homogeneous conducting medium. By decomposing the voltage and current into symmetric and antisymmetric components, the simultaneous integral equations for the distribution of current along the loop have been converted into a single integral equation similar to that for the isolated circular loop antenna which has already been studied. The computed results are presented graphically. The measured results are in good agreement with theory."
"The slot Yagi-type antenna array is studied in detail on planar and curved surfaces. Current magnitude and phase associated with individual elements are measured for various element lengths and element spacings. Termination effects are studied for an eighteen-element array with elements one-third of a wavelength in length and with various element spacings. Comparison is made with and support given to recent work integrating array and surface wave theories."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"A structure consisting of two coupled waveguides is proposed as a leaky-wave antenna. The analysis of this device is based on coupled-mode theory. Previous coupled-mode treatments are extended, since radiative loss is not neglected and the asymmetry of the structure is taken into account. Two cases are considered: the coupling parameter constant with distancezalong the antenna and the coupling as a function ofz. In both, the radiative attenuation is maintained constant. It is found that the first case permits two \"normal modes\" to propagate and, if both modes are excited, the patterns may be superposed to produce desirable overall results. An example is given of an approximation to a pencil beam pattern. By means of the second method, essentially any of the common excitation functions may be produced. An example is given of an antenna to achieve a cosine-on-a-pedestal excitation. Experimental results are given and compared to theory. Suggestions are presented for further work."
"The paper discusses a simplified solution to the problem of multiple diffraction of microwaves over knife-edge obstacles. The path loss is obtained directly and quickly by alignment of distances and heights, adequately selected from a path profile. A theoretical study shows good agreement between the simplified approach and a complete mathematical analysis made by G. Millington in 1962. When the diffraction loss reaches a maximum which might be in excess of 50 dB, the approximate value exceeds the theoretical one by 2 to 5 dB. Predictions are in good agreement, too, with the results of experiments conducted both in France and in the United States. Out of ten examples reported in the paper, nine indicate an error equal or smaller than 3 dB."
"The functional equation derived previously for the scattering by a grating of relatively arbitrary elements is applied to elliptic cylinders. This specifies the problem in terms of an infinite set of linear algebraic equations involving the scattering coefficients of an isolated elliptic cylinder and certain combinations of Schlömilch series. General approximations are obtained by series expansions, and by truncating the sets of equations; we consider both polarizations (EorHparallel to the elements), arbitrary angle of incidence, and arbitrary spacing. Explicit results are given for ellipses that are small compared to the wavelength."
"The ionized boundary layer that forms around a reentry vehicle is represented by a conical sheath having a surface impedance which is determined by the integrated electron density in the boundary layer. This cone can support surface currents that are induced in it by a Hertzian dipole antenna situated on its axis. The radiation pattern of such a structure at wavelengths short compared to the slant height is calculated by a perturbation technique. The calculation holds when the surface conductivity of the sheath varies linearly with distance from the apex of the cone. Plots are presented showing the effects of sheath strength, slant height, and antenna frequency on the patterns."
"A set of radiation pattern functions, suitable for synthesis of radiation patterns from circular aperture horn antennas, is obtained by assuming an aperture distribution consisting of the fields of cylindrical waveguide modes. A technique is presented for using a linear combination of the radiation pattern functions to approximate a desired radiation pattern. Linear combinations of the radiation pattern functions resulting in maximum secondary gain, when used to illuminate a paraboloidal antenna, are obtained empirically. Using spherical wave theory, maximum performance theoretically obtainable from an antenna is derived as a function of the aperture size of the feed system; the feed efficiency resulting from these theoretical limits on performance is compared to the feed efficiency of patterns obtainable from circular aperture horn antennas, and to experimental results of attempts to realize optimum circular aperture horn patterns."
"The governing equations for electromagnetic phenomena in lossy, compressible, magneto-ionic media are formulated in terms of a newly introduced compressivity tensor. The matrix forms of both the permittivity tensor and the compressivity tensor are given. From the new governing equations, a three-dimensional vector wave equation and a dispersion equation are derived. In a source-free region, a set of three simultaneous wave equations in the longitudinal components of the electric and magnetic fields and in the pressure distribution can be written. These equations can be decoupled in the lossless case by effecting a transformation. The required transformation matrix and the resulting uncoupled, second-order, differential equations are given. Formulas for the determination of the transverse components of the electric and magnetic fields are also derived."
"The theory and equations are developed for the scattering pattern of a dielectric cylinder of infinite length and arbitrary cross-section shape. The harmonic incident wave is assumed to have its electric vector perpendicular to the axis of the cylinder, and the fields are assumed to have no variations along this axis. Although some investigators have approximated the field within the dielectric body by the incident field, a more accurate solution is obtained here by treating the field as an unknown function which is determined by solving a system of linear equations. Scattering patterns obtained by this method are presented for dielectric shells of circular and semicircular cross section, and for a thin plane dielectric slab of finite width. The results for the circular shell agree accurately with the exact classical solution. The effects of surface-wave excitation and mutual interaction among the various portions of the shell are included automatically in this solution."
"The properties of a cylindrical antenna with a continuous ohmic resistance along its length are of interest in the design of certain types of directive broadband antennas and in the determination of the efficiency of dipole antennas. Conventionally, the contribution by ohmic resistance to the distribution of current and the impedance is contained in a particular integral that is either ignored or treated as a higher-order correction to formulas derived for perfectly conducting antennas. An alternative and more useful form has been developed in which the integral equation for the current is rearranged to permit the introduction of a complex wave numberk. An approximate solution of this equation is then obtained in terms of the three trigonometric functions,\\sin k(h-|z|),\\cos kz-\\cos kh, and\\cos \\frac{1}{2}k_{0}z - \\cos \\frac{1}{2}k_{0}h, wherek_{0}is the free-space wave number. Expressions are derived for the coefficients of these functions and fork. Explicit formulas are given for the distribution of current and the admittance."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"The mechanism by which electromagnetic waves are scattered from the sea surface is studied herein. Principal applications for such studies occur in over-water communication channels and radar. Predictions based on rigorous formulations for diffraction from a (moving) time-space periodic surface are correlated with the experimental results of other authors. Such predictions explain the existence of strong coherent scattering from the sea surface in nonspecular directions (grating lobes) and also anticipate the appearance of well-defined, harmonically related, frequency shifts (time-space harmonics) in scattered signals observed in these experiments. On the basis of such manifestations of the periodic nature of the sea surface, a model is formulated for use in calculation of the angular power spectrum of scattered electromagnetic waves. This model, accounting for spatial coherence effects, assumes for the fluctuation of heights on the water surface a Gaussian distribution with a narrow band-pass (nearly sinusoidal) spatial spectrum. Calculations of the angular, scattered spectrum due to this model show strong predominantly coherent wave summation in directions corresponding precisely to the grating lobes of a purely periodic structure of period equal to the center period of the band-pass spectrum. Spectral (angular) spreading increases with increased bandwidth of the spatial spectrum of the surface. Calculations for the present study are made on the basis of a perfectly reflecting boundary and hence do not display the proper distinction of polarization expected for a completely realistic model. The results, however, display the spectral charactral characteristics necessary to explain strong scattering in nonspecular directions by a random surface."
"A large steerable-beam antenna can be built by using a number of independent reflectors that redirect energy from a desired direction to a focus. An experimental program of measurement has determined the radiation pattern, the efficiency, and the relative change of gain and antenna temperature vs. beam angle of a test section of a multiplate antenna. The effect of the interstices in the reflecting surface produced grating lobes of approximately -20 dB and an additional temperature component that varied from20\\degK-65\\degK depending on the beam angle."
"Ring arrays can be made so that they concentrate the radiated power in the plane of the ring and are also omnidirectional (or nearly so) in this plane. This paper deals with ring arrays which exhibit these properties. For antenna lengths which are equal to and less than\\lambda/4, graphs are included which show, or make it easy to calculate, antenna impedances the ratio of maximum to minimum directive gain in the plane of the ring, and the mean directive gain in the plane of the ring."
"This paper presents an extension of previous works by Mathis and Saunders, who showed that one will always find both linear polarization and polarization other than linear on the far-field sphere of a null-free antenna. It is shown in this paper that a null-free radiation pattern must contain all axial ratios (ratio of semiminor to semimajor axes) of elliptical polarization ranging from -1 (circular polarization of one sense), through zero (linear polarization), to +1 (circular polarization of the opposite sense). It is also demonstrated that the results of Mathis and Saunders are easily recaptured by this proof."
"The multiplate technique is a method of antenna design that is intended to allow the economical construction of very large antennas. The aperture area is divided into a large number of reflectors that can be adjusted in orientation and height. These plates are positioned so that energy from a desired direction is redirected to be added at the focus. In this paper an analysis of the effects caused by the interstices in a multiple plate antenna is presented. The loss due to gaps and shadowing, the variation in effective receiving cross section, and the radiation pattern are determined. The bandwidth properties of this type of antenna are analyzed, and methods for reducing the effect of frequency dispersion on the pattern are presented. A short discussion of the components of a 2500-ft multiplate antenna is included."
"This paper is a theoretical investigation of a method of scanning a beam of an antenna consisting of a fixed reflector and an array of elements illuminating the reflector by appropriately controlling the phase and amplitude of the signal radiating from each element. For the purpose of determining the feasibility of such a systems the two-dimensional problem is explored where a specific antenna geometry and an element radiation pattern are assumed. It was found that although the system exhibits similar performance to a system with a single radiating element when radiating a beam on axis, it could be scanned some eight beamwidths off axis without significant deterioration in characteristics. Interestingly, it was discovered that there is a separation (about0.7\\lambdain this case) between the feed elements where the sidelobes become dramatically high, analogous to grating lobes in a phased array."
"It is shown that a linearly polarized horn that has the same power pattern in all planes through the axis can be made from a synthetic material for which the boundary conditions onEandHare the same. An arbitrarily close approximation to this requirement can be realized by means of a grooved circular horn."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"The complex wave number, the distribution of current, the admittance, and the radiating efficiency of cylindrical antennas made of imperfect conductors are evaluated numerically from a previously derived theory[1]. The quantity2\\lambda r^{i}/\\zeta_{0}(wherer^{i}is the resistance per unit length,\\lambdais the free-space wavelength, and\\zeta_{0} = 377ohms) is used as the parameter in a range that extends from zero to 200. Extensive graphs and tables are given."
"Active Doppler velocity sensors require an antenna system that generates three or more independent beams. A four-port dual-mode antenna that generates four independent beams from a single aperture is described. The signals emanating from the four ports generate four beams in space through a common aperture of crossed slot radiators. Isolation between the four signals processed through the antenna is obtained primarily by utilizing the mode isolation that exists between theTE_{10}andTE_{01}modes in square waveguide. The isolation obtained between ports was 27.5 dB or greater. The special design problems and the effect of dimensional tolerances on the port isolation are discussed. A gain of greater than 30 dB for each beam and an overall antenna efficiency of approximately 71 percent were achieved. The beam pointing directions ranged from 27 to 29 degrees from the normal to the aperture. Sidelobes of 15 dB or better were also obtained."
"In this paper, a method is introduced for determining the practically realizable matching characteristic of a given array radiating element configuration over an assignable scanning region. The matching scheme assumes that a simple impedance change and a reactive element may be introduced in each channel, and\\pi-type reactive networks may interconnect adjacent element channels. A computer program has been developed to optimize the network components and evaluate the array match. Numerical results for a square waveguide array are presented. The method developed here provides a practical guideline in the evaluation and development of physically realizable array element configurations. The effects of this matching scheme on the radiation pattern and polarization characteristics of a single excited element in the array are discussed as well."
"This paper studies the class of nonuniformly spaced planar arrays in which the elements are located on a lattice derivable from a conformal mapping of a uniform lattice. The array space factor is formulated in a two-dimensional Poisson's sum. The grating plateaux are determined from a stationary-phase integration. An optimization process is applied to make the grating plateaux flat. The array derived is the conformal exponentially spaced array having characteristics very similar to those of the linear exponentially spaced array. A numerical example is included to justify the various approximations used in the analysis."
"A one-dimensional random rough surface is modeled as a Gaussian noise signal. The effect of shadowing in the case of backscattering of waves from such a surface is studied in the geometric optic limit by analyzing the Gaussian noise signal in a digital computer. It is found that presently accepted theories for the shadowing effect are of doubtful validity."
"It has often been suggested in lunar studies that measurements of radar cross-polarization factorDshould yield information on the target's surface roughness and dielectric properties. This paper describes an experimental effort to obtain quantitative data on\\langle D \\rangle, the average value ofD, for randomly rough targets having Gaussian distribution of slopes. BistaticX-band microwave measurements were conducted on targets with different dielectric constants but identical rough surfaces, and targets with same dielectrics but different statistics. The dependence of\\langle D \\rangleon various parameters is shown graphically, and extension to M.I.T. data of lunar crosspolarization is discussed."
"A modified horn antenna with significantly reduced backlobes over nearly a two-to-one frequency band is discussed. This horn has a well-defined phase center at its apex, and theE- andH-plane patterns are nearly identical over the frequency band if the horn has a square (or circular) aperture. Horns considered cover a wide range of flare angles and include one which fits the criterion for the optimum horn at the lower end of the operating frequency band. The VSWR is less than 1.2 over most of the frequency band."
"The coupling between two parallel-plate waveguides is calculated using wedge diffraction techniques. The parallel-plate guides have arbitrary truncation angles and are formed by wedges of arbitrary extent. Calculations of coupling are given for both TEM andTE_{01}waveguide modes with guide separations of 0.4 to 2.4 wavelengths. The results for the half-plane and ground-plane cases have been experimentally verified."
"The exact formal solution for an electric dipole over a planar stratified medium is evaluated in the asymptotic limit. Special attention is given to the situation where one of the strata is an effective insulator. In this case, a waveguide type of propagation is possible which, in some cases, may be significant."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"The reradiation pattern of a passive Van Atta reflector consisting of half-wave dipoles is investigated. The character of the reradiation pattern first is deduced by qualitative and physical considerations. Various types of array elements are considered and several geometrical configurations of these elements are outlined. Following this, an analysis is made of the reradiation pattern of a linear Van Atta array consisting of four equispaced half-wave dipoles. The general form of the reradiation pattern is studied analytically. The influence of scattering and coupling is determined and the dependence of the reradiation pattern on the length of the transmission lines interconnecting the dipoles is investigated. The optimum length of the transmission lines is determined. The results, found by the analysis of the reradiation pattern, are verified experimentally. The experimental reflector consists of slot-fed dipoles with open-ended terminations. Line stretchers are inserted into the transmission lines."
"The backscattering solutions for a metallic cylinder and a metallic sphere coated with single and double layers of absorbing material are investigated. In each case, attention is confined to the high-frequency specular return. The formal series solution obeying exact boundary conditions is expanded asymptotically into a Luneberg-Kline series whose first term, geometric optics, would be obtained by using an impedance boundary condition. The second term may be viewed as a correction term which depends upon the coating characteristics and radii of curvature of the body; in the case of the cylinder, its form for the TE polarization component differs from that for the TM polarization component. No practical conditions can be imposed upon the absorbing layers to cause cancellation of second order terms simultaneously for both polarization components. However, it is possible to adjust the flat-plate reflection coefficient of the absorber coat to cancel second order terms for one polarization component. The reflection coefficient will then depend ,upon curvature; for example, the voltage reflection coefficient must be i/(SkQ) for polarization parallel to a cylinder with a thin magnetic absorber coat. Comparison of the sphere solution with the cylinder solution yields information concerning absorbers on a general convex body."
"A method for the theoretical investigation of an arbitrary reflector array of the Van Atta type is described. The analysis is carried out for a reflector consisting of dipoles. Each pair of antenna elements is represented by an equivalent circuit. Mutual impedances and scattering by the dipoles are taken into account. The theory is illustrated by a numerical example of a linear reflector consisting of four half-wave dipoles. The result shows that the simple explanation of the action of a Van Atta reflector is not sufficient."
"A point-matching solution is developed for scattering by conducting bodies of arbitrary shape. Numerical results are included for the backscatter echo area of circular and square wire loops, circular and square plates, spheres, and hemispheres. The results show good agreement with experimental data. An efficient calculation procedure is achieved by using a wire-grid model instead of a continuous conducting surface. A system of linear equations is generated by enforcing the boundary conditions at the center of each wire segment of the grid, and a digital computer is employed to solve these equations for the currents on the segments. Then it is straightforward to calculate the distant scattered field and the echo area."
"The radar cross section is calculated for semi-infinite perfectly conducting cones with tips which are blunted in one of several ways. Calculations have been performed for nose-on incidence using exact theory, and for nose-on and near nose-on incidence using the physical optics approximation. The calculations have been restricted to narrow-angle cones and, in most cases, to tip dimensions small compared with a wavelength. For the rounded tip (spherical tip attached smoothly to the cone), the calculations agree very well with the physical optics approximation. Thus, the use of physical optics for nonzero aspect angles seems justified."
"A general approximation is developed which permits the accurate computation of radiation patterns from circular apertures and reflectors by single integration both at wide angles and for large Fresnel numbers. Both the far-field and small angle Fresnel region approximations are obtained as special cases. The approximation is applicable to regions where the ratio of the aperture diameter to the distance to the point of observation is small and where this distance is many wavelengths. A comparison is made with the values determined by precise numerical integration for a certain range of parameters and shows good agreement for both the amplitudes and phases of the integrals within the expected range of validity of the approximation."
"A variational formulation is developed for the impedance of a finite strip antenna embedded in a planar dielectric slab which is surrounded by a magnetoionic medium (cold electron plasma) with a static magnetic field impressed in a direction perpendicular to the antenna surface. Closed form expressions are obtained in the limit of low frequencies, and for a short antenna in a uniaxial medium. The impedance becomes large at the plasma frequency, near the upper hybrid resonance frequency, and further resonances are observed near the gyro-frequency if the gyro-frequency exceeds the plasma frequency. The reactance of a short antenna is inductive at low frequencies, but becomes capacitive as the thickness of the insulation around the antenna is increased. For very thin insulating layers the wave number of the variationally approximated current distribution exceeds\\sqrt{\\sqrt{\\epsilon_{1}} \\sqrt{\\epsilon_{3}}} k_{0}(\\epsilon_{1}and\\epsilon_{3}are the two diagonal elements of the permittivity matrix), where\\epsilon_{1}and\\epsilon_{3}may have positive or negative real parts. However, this approximation does not apply to current distributions along an insulated antenna. The present calculations are also compared with earlier work on antenna impedances."
"Techniques for extending the frequency tuning range of low profile top loaded antennas to greater than one octave are described. The compact antenna is a directly driven resonant radiator (DDRR) which consists of a vertical post radiator, the height of which is less than0.05\\lambdaat the highest operating frequency, and which is top loaded by a loosely spiraled unbalanced transmission line which employs a multiple-capacitor tuning scheme to achieve a wide-band, tunable resonant antenna. The measured antenna circuitQis of the order of 100 or greater and the radiation efficiency, over a large ground plane, is greater than 50 percent that of a quarter-wave monopole over the full operating range."
"A variational formulation is developed for the impedance of a finite cylindrical antenna embedded in a dielectric cylinder, which is surrounded by a magnetoionic medium (cold electron plasma) with the static magnetic field impressed in a direction parallel to the antenna axis. Closed form expressions are obtained in the limit of low frequencies, and for short antennas in a uniaxial medium. The impedance of a short antenna is nearly the same as for an assumed triangular current distribution, except that further resonances are observed in the vicinity of the gyro frequency, where the antenna becomes electrically long. These resonances may be shifted to frequencies exceeding the gyro frequency in the presence of an insulating layer around the antenna. For very thin insulating layers the wave number of the variationally approximated current distribution is to the first order equal to\\sqrt{\\epsilon_{1}} k_{0}(\\epsilon_{1}is the leading diagonal element of the permittivity matrix), where the gyro frequency may be both smaller or larger than the plasma frequency. However, this approximation does not apply to current distributions along the insulated antenna. The present calculations are also compared with earlier work on antenna impedances."
"In an infinite planar array of elements with periodic spacing, the element active impedance varies with phasing for beam steering. This impedance variation may be expressed as the sum of a double Fourier series. This series is identified with the periodic grating-lobe pattern on the \"\\sin \\thetaplane\" which is also the plane of two-dimensional phasing coordinates. An \"impedance crater,\" with contours peculiar to the kind of element, is placed on every grating-lobe center. The inside of the central crater, which coincides with the unit circle of real space on this plane, determines the resistance variation with scan angle of the main lobe. The central crater and the skirts of the surrounding craters overlap in this circle; their sum determines the accompanying reactance variation. All craters together form the \"grating-lobe series,\" which gives a picture of the entire impedance variation with scan angle. In a simple example, the reactance variation associated with half-wave spacing of the elements is found to be nearly equal to the resistance variation associated with the kind of element."
"The characteristics of an infinite cylindrical antenna, insulated from the surrounding uniaxially anisotropic plasma medium by a concentric cylindrical sheath of free space, are investigated for the case in which the antenna is excited by means of a delta-function voltage source and the gyroelectric axis is parallel to the axis of the antenna. For sufficiently large thickness of the insulation, guided waves are found to be supported along the antenna and their dispersion and power relations are analyzed. The radiation conductance of the antenna contributed by the space waves is evaluated and is found to be practically independent of the insulation thickness for frequencies above the plasma frequency. For frequencies below the plasma frequency, the radiation conductance, which is infinite in the absence of the sheath, remains finite and decreases rapidly with the increase in the thickness of the insulation. The antenna current and the radiation pattern in the far zone are also examined."
"Electrically-opaque fences have been found to be a versatile means of controlling radar site problems such as clutter return and ground reflections; they have also been used to reduce the power density in the radar vicinity in order to prevent a personnel hazard. Such fences have been designed for several existing radar installations at the White Sands Missile Range and at Kwajalein Island in the Pacific. In these applications, the function of the fence is to block undesired signal paths. However, the improvement achieved by the use of a fence is limited by the fields diffracted over the fence edge. The effects of this diffraction are calculated on the basis of straight-edge diffraction theory. Generally, the fence design is a compromise between performance and cost, large-radius fences providing better performance than smaller ones. Techniques are presently being investigated for obtaining improved performance by the treatment of the top edge of the fence to further control the diffraction."
"The results of measurements atX-band of backscattering from water waves of amplitude less than about 0.01 wavelength and with wavelengths of the order of the microwave length are presented and compared with theory. The measurements have been made for both vertical and horizontal polarizations for grazing angles between4\\degand80\\deg. The results both as to angular dependence and absolute magnitude are in agreement with the theory. The ratio of vertical to horizontal backscattering cross section calculated from the theory is compared with that measured on the open sea."
"The volume integrals in the complex Poynting theorem are usually assumed to represent stored magnetic and electric energy. But for a planar aperture radiating into a lossless homogeneous medium it is shown that the only physically observable part of the volume integrals is twice that produced in the invisible region of the pattern space factor by those field components that vanish in the plane outside of the aperture. The inductive and capacitive reactive powers corresponding to the observable parts\\langle W_{m} \\rangleand\\langle W_{e} \\rangle, respectively, of the volume integrals are found to be given by the following integrals over the invisible regionk_{y}^{2} + k_{z}^{2} > k^{2},2\\omega\\langle W_{m} \\rangle = \\frac{(2\\pi)^{2}}{2kZ_{0}} \\int \\int_{k_{y}^{2}+k_{z}^{2} >k^{2}} \\frac{|k_{z}F_{y}-k_{y}F_{z}|^{2}} {\\sqrt{k_{y}^{2}+k_{z}^{2}-k^{2}} dk_{y}dk_{z},2\\omega\\langle W_{e} \\rangle = \\frac{(2\\pi)^{2}}{2kZ_{0}} \\int \\int_{k_{y}^{2}+k_{z}^{2} >k^{2}} \\frac{k^{2}}(|F_{y}|^{2}+|F_{z}|^{2})} {\\sqrt{k_{y}^{2}+k_{z}^{2}-k^{2}} dk_{y}dk_{z}, for an arbitrary aperture consisting of holes in a conducting plane. They are expressed in terms of the rectangular componentsF_{y}andF_{z}of the pattern space factor obtained from the tangential componentsE_{y}andE_{z}of electric field over the holesS,F_{y}(k_{y},k_{z},k) = \\frac{1}{(2\\pi)^{2}} \\int \\int\\_{s} E_{y}(0,y,z,k)e^{i (k_{y}y+k_{z}z)}dydzF_{z}(k_{y},k_{z},k) = \\frac{1}{(2\\pi)^{2}} \\int \\int\\_{s} E_{z}(0,y,z,k)e^{i (k_{y}y+k_{z}z)}dydzwhereZ_{0} = \\sqrt{\\mu/\\epsilon}, andk_{y}andk_{z}are two components of the vector propagation constant of magnitudek=\\omega\\sqrt{\\mu\\epsilon}. For the complementary aperture whose space factor is obtained fromZ_{0}times the tangential components of magnetic field in the aperture, the formulas for inductive and capacitive reactive power simply interchange. The new formulas are used to make the first known test of the widely held assumption that the reciprocal relationship betweenQand bandwidth of nonradiating systems applies also to radiating systems. By direct computation ofQand of bandwidth independently it is shown that the reciprocal relationship does hold for the test case treated (the planar dipole)."
"This newsletter consists of information that is of interest to APS society members. Includes recent events and meetings involving various APS chapters around the world, conference programs and committees, course announcements, publication information, and membership activities."
"An article by Dr. E. Weber, President of Polytechnic Institute of Brooklyn, in Electronic News (November 29, 1965) points out that the life span of an engineering degree is primarily a function of the individual. This is shown graphically above and indicates that the value of the engineer dies very rapidly if he does not continue studying or make a large effort in keeping up or ahead of his ever changing technical field. Employers are very well aware that their future profits depend on getting a maximum life span from an employee. Thus top salaries are paid to new graduates with advanced degrees. Old timers or even employees of just a few years of experience do not get salaries proportionate to their years of service. The hue and cry is now retraining. I wonder how effective that really is for those who have not kept up with their field for five, ten, fifteen years. It may be difficult for them to go back to school. much less take time off from work to accomplish these studies. Many students who have returned to school even after a few years of absence have found it difficult to get adjusted to the routine of classes and homework. I wonder if the old saying, You can lead a horse to water, but .... applies"
"Presents the editorial for this issue of the newsletter."
"Presents the editorial for this issue of the newsletter."
"Discusses the editorial policies of the IEEE Antennas and Propagation Group Newsletter."
"This newsletter consists of information that is of interest to APS society members. Includes recent events and meetings involving various APS chapters around the world, conference programs and committees, course announcements, publication information, and membership activities."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the periodical."
"The author considers what new fields of antennas and propagation should the society welcome and foster. New fields or new emphases of old fields have come into view several times during the last several. years and will occur in the future. Signal processing antennas {also called \"data processing antennas\") have received a tremendous attention, most of it by antenna people. In these arrays the emphasis is on the processing behind the elements with the goal of improving antenna performance in one or more characteristics - usually at the expense of others. Example of these arrays are time-modulated arrays, self-steered arrays, multiplicative arrays, correlation arrays. The concepts can be applied to satellite arrays as well as to ground based arrays. Indications are that very large ground based arrays - for instance - will not operate properly without the use of these techniques due to atmospheric decorrelation. Some papers considering these techniques and applications are going to other journals yet these are antenna system papers. A constitutional revision may be made soon. Should it read: antenna, antenna systems, plasmas and radio astronomy systems? Aren't \"astronomy systems\" a special class of \"antenna systems\"? It seems to me that, above all we should consider the overall question: Should these antenna systems become the province of \"systems\" or \"antennas.\""
"Presents the editorial for this issue of the newsletter."
"This newsletter consists of information that is of interest to APS society members. Includes recent events and meetings involving various APS chapters around the world, conference programs and committees, course announcements, publication information, and membership activities."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the periodical."
"Packset radio antennas in the HF and VHF ranges have traditionally presented severe matching problems due to the dependence of antenna parameters on position, surroundings and operator. The advent of high power (20-40W) packsets tunable over the entire HF and VHF range have made better antenna matching desirable. A novel antenna measurement test set is described and a body of measured antenna data is presented. Variations of reactance over a 2.5:1 range and resistance over a 200.1 range are shown to be common when the antenna is electrically short. Techniques for reducing such variation are discussed."
"Presents the cover/table of contents for the proceedings, Part 5, Antennas; Microwaves; Electron Devices."
"This is a review presentation on metal-semiconductor Schottky barriers and devices. Three main areas will be dealt with in some detail: (a) the characteristics and underlying physics of barriers as currently understood, (b) the state of the art of barrier and device fabrication technologies, and (c) device applications, capabilities and limitations, present and future. The following specific topics will be discussed: 1. Barrier heights and their relations to work functions, electron affinities, electronegativity, and surface states. 2. Barrier characteristics: capacity-voltage including contributions of majority and minority carriers; current-voltage and underlying mechanisms; noise characteristics. 3. High frequency and high current density capabilities and limitations. 4. Status of fabrication technologies and device reliability. 5. Device applications: microwave detection and mixing, switching and limiting, optical and higher energy particle detection."
"A brief review of today's processing of integrated circuits is given. The major trends in the development of advanced integrated electronics are identified as (1) the broadening of the integrated circuit concept to a large class of circuit function, (2) the processing of more complex circuits within relatively small chips of silicon, and (3) the processing of very large electronic functions on complete slices of silicon. This latter trend, called array technology, is then developed in detail. Emphasis is given to defining the key technological problems."
"A simple model of waveguide remanence phase shifters consists of twin ferrite slabs symmetrically placed in rectangular waveguide and separated by a dielectric rib. The model has been analyzed with the assumption that a fundamental TE mode wave propagates in the structure. Simultaneous solution of Maxwell's equations in the three regions of dielectric, ferrite, and air within the waveguide enables the characteristic equation to be formed. The characteristics of the model have been obtained with the aid of a computer as a function of dimensions, dielectric and magnetic constants, frequency and power. The theoretical results are compared with experimental data obtained on a double toroid structure. Correction factors applied to the experimental data, which are necessary to account for differences between the practical structure and the ideal model, are discussed."
"Carefully formulated optimum designs show that the quiescent power requirements of low frequency, wideband, tuned, and low noise amplifiers as well as oscillators, mixers, and detectors frequently may be reduced more than an order of magnitude."
"Lambda functions, a class of functions resembling the Bessel functions, have many applications in antenna theory. This paper shows their application to describe some of the properties of dipoles. The field components of an electrically short dipole are usually expressed in terms of the inverse distance1/rand its powers1/r^{2}and1/r^{3}. It is shown that the functions containingrare Lambda functions. The field components can then be concisely expressed in Lambda notation and the range dependence is easily determined from standard tables and graphs of the Lambda functions. The Lambda characterization of the field arises from the vector potential being itself a simple Lambda function. Lambda functions then enter into applications of short dipoles and simplify the descriptions. Examples are given in respect of mutual coupling, gain formulas, and lines of force. The paper contains a short account of the definitions and properties of the Lambda functions required for the dipole applications."
"This paper presents a new method of synthesis of non-uniformly spaced arrays. Through the use of Chebyshev-Gauss quadrature and the Hankel transform, the space factor of an array and a prescribed radiation pattern can be reduced into the same form in terms of the Lambda function. By equating the coefficients of the Lambda function, the element excitation can be determined directly. The synthesized array approximates the prescribed pattern with a high degree of precision. This is demonstrated by an example in which an array is synthesized to produce the Taylor pattern."
"During recent months it has become possible to make thin-film solar cells with conversion efficiencies greater than 5 percent and areas as large as 50 cm2. The state of the art in this field is reviewed and solar cells using thin films of CdS, CdTe and GaAs are discussed in detail. The fabrication, structure and properties of these cells are described with emphasis on solar conversion efficiency, specific power to weight ratio, environmental stability and cost. Finally, the characteristics of thin film cells are compared to those of currently available single crystal Si cells and the possibilities for future improvement are outlined."
"This paper describes the performance of feeds and reflector antennas at frequencies outside the design bandwidth where the feed can become overmoded, producing primary patterns that are functions of the mode content. The secondary patterns are then characteristic of the reflector's modal illumination. For an overmoded rectangular waveguide or horn feed, the secondary (Fraunhofer) pattern shows a cluster of sharp beams near the axis and substantially within the main beam at the fundamental frequency. A backscatter technique was applied to an array of shaped reflectors to simulate an arbitrary combination of modes. This avoided the construction of complicated multimode launchers. A TEmnmode in rectangular waveguide radiates an angular spectrum of plane waves. Simple methods of pattern computation use\\sin x/xtables for the Fraunhofer field and tables of half-integer order Lommel functions for the Fresnel region (included in this paper). Moding feeds investigated included waveguides, waveguide arrays, pyramid horns, and box horns. A 6-foot paraboloid antenna was used as a secondary reflector."
"A novel technique for implementing electronic beam steering of large aperture scattering and receiving arrays is described. The Fresnel zones of an aperture required to form a beam in an arbitrary direction are realized by controlling the output of discrete integrated amplifier-antenna elements distributed over a scattering surface. The analysis of this method of beam forming and scanning considers several important factors such as array patterns, maximum scan ability, and the effect of interelement spacing. Theoretical computer plots have been obtained from the analysis and are compared with experimental results obtained from Fresnel zone plates designed to operate at millimeter wavelengths. Experimental results were also achieved using an array of 21 tunnel diode antenna-amplifier elements."
"It has been previously demonstrated by Foster and DeKlerk that oriented thin films of cadmium sulfide can be fabricated using proper vacuum deposition techniques. These CdS films form the basis for practical high efficiency transducers of electromagnetic energy to acoustic energy at microwave frequencies. We describe some further investigations of the deposition of CdS films for this purpose and some investigations of the use of, multiple film assemblies in which quarter wave films of various materials are used to transform acoustic impedances for the purpose of increasing the conversion efficiency. Using these methods low conversion losses of 4.5 dB at 800 MHz and 5 dB at 1600 MHz have been achieved experimentally. The lowering of the conversion loss by a significant amount as predicted removes a major obstacle in the technology for the further development of the many devices utilizing acoustic waves at microwave frequencies. The following are described in detail: the vacuum deposition techniques for the CdS film; the formulation of the problem and the calculations which give the transducer conversion loss as a function of frequency for multilayer films; and the comparison of calculated and measured conversion loss as a function of frequency from 500 to 4000 MHz."
"A brief review of the early history of the cathode ray tube is followed by consideration of developments during the years immediately following World War II. A more detailed description is given of types of tube currently in use for black and white and for color television. In conclusion some suggestions are made regarding possible future developments."
"Traveling-wave tubes and klystrons have both demonstrated the capability of generating large amounts of microwave power, and today frequently compete for applications where high power is required. The choice between them is then based on a variety of parameters-this is illustrated by comparing typical modern tubes used in ground stations for satellite communication. The two technologies are increasingly being combined in a single amplifier, modern tubes with very high performance have resulted from this combination. One example is the extended-interaction klystron, which has generated the highest microwave power yet demonstrated, another example is the hybrid amplifier, which has demonstrated performance characteristics remarkably well-suited for modern radar systems. Performance has been extended upwards in frequency as well. Modern klystrons and traveling-wave tubes that generate high powers at millimeter wavelengths are described."
"The submillimeter spectrum is of great interest for physicists, as matter in its different states exhibits remarkable properties there. Although some experiments have been made in this field, for instance, to prove the identity of light and electromagnetic radiation, it has remained comparatively unexplored because of the peculiar difficulties which arise in the production of some amount of power per unit bandwidth in this range. Significant results in generation have been achieved in the last few years at wavelengths well below 1 mm using the old electron tube technics. Work following new lines of thought, performed in different laboratories, has recently shown new possibilities. A short survey is given of the needs, results, and new possibilities of generating submillimeter waves."
"The recent development of microwave solid state delay lines has generated a requirement for a multiple purpose instrumentation system that provides precise readout of frequency, insertion loss, magnetic field and time delay. These new devices employing yttrium iron garnet as the delay medium have magnetically controllable propagation characteristics that permit both fixed and variable time delays that range from essentially zero up to several microseconds. In this paper a description of the design, assembly and testing of a real time delay microwave measuring system is presented. A discussion of the overall performance is given together with the test results indicating the accuracy that has been attained."
"This paper is concerned with the design and development of several new types of non-reciprocal latching ferrite devices. These devices have been designed to exhibit improved electrical performance at reduced per unit cost. Some of the described devices include (1)a single toroiddigital waveguide phase shifter, (2) a second generation temperature compensated, high average power phase shifter, (3) a digital strip transmission line phase shifter, (4) a miniaturized slow wave phase shifter, and (5) a latching ferrite waveguide cutoff switch. In addition to describing the design and operating characteristics of these devices, the results of recent experiments with digital reciprocal phase shifters are presented."
"This paper deals with a absolutely stable 2Gctunnel diode amplifier using a diode whose frois higher than fxo, and the construction method using the integrated circuits is reported. This amplifier is designed as a pre-amplifier of the broad band radio communication system, and the noise figure, stability, saturation effect and the noise performance of the whole system are discussed."
"A solid-state telemetry converter is described which converts the 2.2 - 2.3 GHz telemetry band to the 215 - 315 MHz telemetry band. A microwave interdigital multiplexing filter acts as a preselector, a local oscillator filter and an intermediate frequency filter. The filter structure contains integrated semi-conductor elements which perform the necessary frequency conversions. The output of a crystal controlled oscillator is multiplied by a step recovery diode to the appropriate local oscillator frequency and mixed in a hot carrier diode mixer. An IF preamplifier provides an efficient 20 db RF to IF gain. Some of the advantages of the \"Integrated\" approach over the \"Modular\" approach are discussed."
"This paper describes the approaches used and some of the results obtained building integrated mixers inSband. These mixers are built with a unique \"bilithic\" Schottky-barrier diode chip and evaporated microstrip circuitry on alumina dielectric. Mixer noise figures are less than 7.5 db with local oscillator powers of\\approx 3to 30 mw. The impedances are50 \\Omegain and out with the signal input VSWR being less than 1.5/1 over the local oscillator range and a bandwidth of\\pm 15%."
"The power response of a two element IF correlation interferometer to a point source of broadband random noise is expressed in terms of the crosscorrelation function of the signals from each element. This representation separates clearly the effects of element spacing, element radiation pattern and system bandwidth on the overall performance. Results are derived for systems with and without RF preselection. Implementation of an interferometer by means of a wideband polarity coincidence correlator is described, This approach permits the use of digital data processing techniques."
"The effect of mutual coupling among the elementary antennas comprising an array in producing the radiation pattern of the array antenna is explicitly evaluated via a scattering formalism based on spherical modes. A relation between the coupling matrix of anN-element array, considered as a dissipativeN-port, and the complex radiation pattern of the array antenna is obtained in terms of patterns associated with the elementary antennas. While the elementary patterns required are, in general, not those produced by each element when isolated from all others, for an array composed of (canonical) minimum scattering-antennas (e. g. dipoles) just these conventional patterns of the isolated elements are involved."
"The principal characteristics of moderately superdirective normal mode helical dipoles are described both theoretically and experimentally. Use of a thin helix approximation permits integration of an assumed sinusoidal current distribution along a linear, foreshortened structure and yields a simple formula for the radiation field. Graphical displays of experimental and theoretical results illustrate that beamwidths of the order of45\\degwith 22 db sidelobe suppression are available in dipoles which have a total length of only 0.6 wavelengths. In the theoretical analysis of helical dipoles, a linear relationship is assumed between the axial phase constant and frequency. The experimentally determined resonant length and mode of the structure define the proportionality constant, s, between phase velocity and free space velocity such that the linearizedk-\\betarelationship used in radiation pattern analysis is\\beta = k/s. A method for determining the resonant length of tape helices from theoreticalk-\\betadiagrams is described. The feasibility of utilizing helical dipoles as array elements, in applications where efficiency is secondary to size and directivity, is illustrated. The pattern multiplication technique is used in deriving an expression for theE-field for a two-element array. It is shown that with proper phasing of the fixed length elements, beamwidths in the range 30-40 degrees with front-to-back ratios in excess of 20 db over a pattern bandwidth representing 8% of the resonant frequency of an individual element are commonly available. A description and experimental data are provided for the tunable dipoles developed in order to achieve broadband operation. A hybrid is introduced in the array feed network so as to maintain a high front-to-back ratio over a broad range of frequencies. Experimental radiation patterns are displayed for a case in which the element phasing yields a front-to-back ratio which is independent of frequency. The overall dimensions of such moderately superdirective arrays are typically less than0.2 \\times 0.8wavelengths and can readily be used over a broad frequency range when tunable (variable length) dipoles and a hybrid junction are employed."
"In recent years there has been activity in the development of very large arrays for space applications. This has led to an interest in techniques for simulating far field patterns from models. The models developed in the past have been inadequate in that it was only practical to model the amplitude of the antenna aperture distribution function. This paper introduces a practical technique for constructing a model which correctly simulates the far field pattern of an antenna which has a complex aperture distribution function. Since the far field is known to be representable as the Fourier transform of the aperture distribution function, the aperture is considered to be a space domain and the far field the corresponding spatial frequency domain. A signal analysis point of view is taken to describe the modeling technique, and to illustrate its salient features. The simulation technique is interpreted in terms of both optical and microwave simulation. The extension of the technique to single element antennas, and arrays of small closely spaced elements is discussed."
"An approximate theory for a lumped impedance loaded traveling wave linear antenna is presented. The approximate current distribution on the antenna is determined in terms of its dimensions and the impedance and position of the double loading. From this result, the optimum impedance to yield an outward traveling wave of current is determined. Significantly, it is indicated that a purely reactive loading may be utilized if its position is properly chosen. Expressions for the input impedance and radiation fields corresponding to the traveling wave of current are presented. Numerical results for an antenna of particular dimensions are included, and compared where appropriate with available experimental data."
"A pattern synthesis method for a linear array which produces a desired radiation pattern is obtained by using the integral mean of its Fourier approximation. According to the method, the properties of a realized pattern can be easily controlled by two newly introduced parameters; one is determined by the number of elements, the beam width constant and the element spacing, and the other determines the weight function to the Fourier coefficient function. In this paper, a few charts with these two parameters for designing an antenna having some typical radiation patterns are presented with interesting examples. If a desired minor lobe level and a beam width are given, the optimum number of elements can be estimated from these charts. Finally this method is proved to be useful by experimental results."
"The use of thermoelectric converters for generating power in both space and terrestrial applications is receiving attention today. The critical need for reliable unattended power has been a key factor leading to the development of this technology. The general chemical and physical properties of silicon-germanium alloys offer important advantages to meet these requirements. This paper describes various methods of coupling various heat sources to silicon-germanium thermocouples, e. g., conductive and radiant coupling. Heat sources such as radioisotopes, nuclear reactors, and fossil-fuel burners are considered. Life-test results illustrating the reliable performance that can be expected from silicon-germanium thermoelectric converters are presented."
"A conical horn-reflector antenna has some gain for higher mode excitation in the main direction which means the direction of the maximum radiation for the dominant mode excitation. This paper gives the general expression of the gain function of the conical horn-reflector antenna excited in higher modes in the Fresnel and the Fraunhofer regions, and represents graphically the computed results for the first five higher modes of the circular waveguide:TM_{01}\\deg,TE_{21}\\deg,TE_{11}\\degandTE_{31}\\degmodes. Graphs show the gains in the main direction in the Fraunhofer region as functions of the flare angle of the conical horn, the gains in the main direction in the Fresnel region as functions of the distance between the antenna and the point of observation, and radiation patterns. Then simple approximate expressions of the gains for higher mode excitation in the main direction in the Fraunhofer region are derived and verified to give results which coincide very well with the computed results mentioned above. By using these approximate expressions, the gain for higher mode excitation in the main direction is generally discussed. In consequence, it is cleared that the gains forTE_{on}\\degandTM_{on}\\degmode excitations in the Fraunhofer region are zero, that the gains forTE_{m}\\degmode excitation is independent of the flare angle, and that in general the gain for higher mode excitation depends on the flare angle\\Psiin the proportional manner to\\tan^{2(m-1)} (\\Psi/2)forTE_{mn}\\degmode and\\tan^{2(m+1)}(\\Psi /2)forTM_{mn}\\degmode, and the proportional coefficient decreases asnincreases. The gain forTE_{12}\\degmode excitation is maximum and it is -10.6 dB over the gain for the dominant mode excitation. From this fact it is recommended to choose the diameter of the feeding circular waveguide small enough to cut off theTE_{12}\\degmode propagation. Among the gains for the higher modes which have lower cutoff frequencies than that ofTE_{12}\\degmode, the gain forTE_{21}\\degmode excitation is maximum, and is -14.9 dB over the gain for the dominant mode excitation when the flare angle is 30 degrees. To suppress the gain forTE_{21}\\degmode excitation below -20 dB, the flare angle must be smaller than 16 degrees."
"The rather large linewidth of ruby lasers has been a serious limiting factor on the coherence length obtainable in certain applications. Also the lack of spatial coherence can be attributed to another form of multimoding in the laser. Specific mode control devices have been used to some advantage in small normal pulsed ruby lasers but no success has been obtained in high-power applications. Successful operation of high-power mode-selected devices will be described with emphasis placed upon the methods of mode selection. The resulting laser possesses a high degree of spatial and temporal coherence and therefore has been used for some interesting applications, such as holography and nonlinear optics. Some of these applications will be discussed."
"Optical parametric amplification is inherently a broad band process and thus makes widely tunable optical amplifiers and coherent power sources possible. After a brief survey of the basic principles, the various factors contributing to a practical parametric amplifier and oscillator will be discussed. Among these will be, choice of material, phase matching, optical loss, the effect of modes, and tunability. The present status pulsed and continuous-wave parametric oscillator experiments will be reviewed and the future prospects for optical parametric devices will be discussed."
"A novel log-periodic slot array is described which employs surface wave excitation. Violating established criterion for successful log-periodic designs, the antenna is excited at the large end of the structure, resulting in an end-fire rather than a back-fire radiation. The design offers an advantage of improved directivity by exciting two or more arrays from the same surface wave structure, and it has a potential for high power handling capability, since the dimensions at the feed end need not be small."
"Approximate analytical expressions are developed for the electromagnetic backscattering by a perfectly conducting prolate spheroid. The solutions are formulated from postulated time domain models for the target ramp response waveform with an arbitrary orientation and a linearly polarized source. Calculated results are compared with measured data for a 2:1 axial ratio spheroid."
"Presents the back cover of this proceedings volume."
"Presents the cover/table of contents for the proceedings."
"Presents the foreward to the conference proceedings."
"Lists the informal discussion sessions held at the conference proceedings."
"Lists the informal discussion sessions held at the conference proceedings."
"Lists the informal discussion sessions held at the conference proceedings."
"Provides a listing of current committee members."
"Start of the above-titled section of the conference proceedings."
"Start of the above-titled section of the conference proceedings record."
"Presents the opening statements of the conference proceedings."
"Presents the recipients of the Solid-State Circuits Conference outstanding paper award for 1965."
"Presents the foreward to the conference proceedings."
"Presents the table of contents for the 1966 IEEE International Solid-State Circuits Conference (Digest of Technical Papers)."
"Lists the informal discussion sessions held at the conference proceedings."
"Provides a listing of current committee members."
"Lists the informal discussion sessions held at the conference proceedings."
"Provides a listing of current committee members."
"Lists the informal discussion sessions held at the conference proceedings."
"Lists the informal discussion sessions held at the conference proceedings."
"Lists the informal discussion sessions held at the conference proceedings."
"Lists the informal discussion sessions held at the conference proceedings."
"Provides a listing of current committee members."
"Provides a schedule of conference events and a listing of which papers were presented in each session."
"Lists the informal discussion sessions held at the conference proceedings."
"Presents the back cover of this proceedings volume."
"Presents the cover from the proceedings of this conference."
"Lists the informal discussion sessions held at the conference proceedings."
"Provides a listing of upcoming events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Starting with this issue, IEEE Transactions on Audio and Electroacoustics is participating in an experimental trial run of publication of catalog card information as an aid to information retrieval. These cards have been prepared for each full-length contributed paper that appears in this issue of the Transactions, and are printed on separate pages at the back of the journal. Note that these cards are printed on one side of the page only, so that they can be readily clipped out and pasted to a standard 3.5 x 5.0 -inch file card. Each catalog card contains a complete reference to the paper in the form of title, author's name, abstract, and index terms. Space is left for an accession number, which the reader may add, if desired, to adapt the card to his own retrieval system. Space is also left for other index terms that the reader may prefer to use for indexing in his own retrieval system. The information-retrieval catalog cards printed at the back of this issue are part of a series of trial runs in which several IEEE Group Transactions are participating. These trial runs are being conducted with the assistance of the Information Retrieval Committee of the IEEE, as one of the first steps in a long-range program to improve information dissemination and utilization for IEEE members. This long-range program includes such things as mechanized indexing, demand reproduction of papers, and selective dissemination of published material or announcements of its availability; in short, all aspects of organizing, storing, and retrieving the technical literature in the fields of interest to IEEE."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"The design of an audio power amplifier capable of high-quality performance must be based on design objectives and principles determined from consideration of the entire transmission system. This consideration yields the following amplifier design principles: 1) the open-loop frequency response should be 20-20 000 Hz, 2) the peak amplifier capability must be at least 17 dB above the desired average power level, 3) the open-loop transfer characteristic must contain no nonlinearity that would severely reduce the in remental gain."
"A microphone amplifier is described which possesses good noise characteristics at all gain settings and the capability of handling large input signals without appreciable distortion at low gain settings. A single potentiometer is used as the gain control to 1) vary the negative feedback to provide high overload capability at low gain, and 2) attenuate the output to provide a minimum gain of zero. The circuit is developed from a two-transistor building block."
"Channel noise in analog communication systems can be minimized by the use of linear filters which modify the spectrums of the transmitted and received modulation signals. This technique has been known for many years by engineers who design communication and recording equipment. However, their solution to the problem has been along empirical lines, based on improper criteria and procedures. Generally, the existence of an analytic solution has not been appreciated. Although the basic solution can be expressed simply, the result is not intuitively obvious, suggesting that seat-of-the-pants methods may have been significantly less than optimum. In this paper expressions are derived for five classes of optimum filtering. Although some equivalent formulas have been obtained in earlier papers according to the standard criterion of minimizing the mean-square error, it is claimed that this criterion is not germane in a communication sense. Particular attention is given to the reciprocal-filter design, which has the unique property of being expressed independent of the SNR. In transmitting 8-kHz speech, such filtering is found to make a 5-dB improvement against \"flat\" noise and a 15-dB improvement against \"FM\" noise. Applicability of the results to a peak- as well as an average-power limitation is discussed. Among the results is a new design formula for the case where several physical effects limit the modulation waveform (such as in disc recording)."
"The principle that tracing and tracking errors arise solely from delay-modulation processes has not found wide application for controlling these errors, because of device imperfections. These can be overcome by use of a regulation principle. Regulation can also be used in a switching-synthesis scheme, achieving continuous delay control without delay lines. The regulation principle invoked is that of the phase-locked loop. The switching-synthesis scheme is a sampled-data analog of the phase-locked loop. Rational design approaches are indicated."
"Characteristics of silicon and germanium power transistors used in power output stages of audio amplifiers are discussed. The higher junction temperature and lower ICBOof silicon are the major advantages. A high-voltage class A audio amplifier with the advantages of a direct-coupled drive circuit is discussed. Low-cost semiconductors are used to replace electrolytic capacitors. The advantages of transformerless push-pull circuits and capacitive vs. direct coupling to the load are also discussed. Both2\\frac{1}{2}-watt and 20-watt circuits are described and shown to give high performance and to protect the output transistors against overdrive."
"This paper represents an effort to update and expand an earlier paper, \"Speech Analysis, Synthesis, and Processing - A Selected Bibliography,\" prepared and published by this author at Texas Instruments Inc., Dallas, in 1963. Selections included in this paper will provide the research with a fairly extensive and representative presentation of relevant source material in the areas to which the title refers."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"The speed variations in a magnetic tape recorder resulting from the compliance of the tape and the inertias of the rotating parts were studied by means of the electrical analog of the mechanical system. The analog was also used as an \"analog computer\" to help evaluate certain mechanical parameters. Equations were derived for converting mechanical values into analogous electrical values, and vice versa. Mechanical values, including the tape compliance and the dynamic properties of the synchronous capstan motor, were measured, as well as the disturbances caused by existing mechanical imperfections. The \"analog computer\" method was used to determine tape-to-head responsiveness. Some \"analog computer\" values were compared with calculated values to show the accuracy and convenience of the \"computer\" method. Also, more realistic answers result from the \"computer\" method, because some simplifications necessary for a mathematical calculation are unnecessary for the \"computer\" solution. Speed variations at the reproducing head, and means for their reduction, were determined by using the analog circuit. Finally, a few general design rules were formulated."
"Delta modulation is a method of simplified coding for digital coding. An experimental delta modulation system for speech processing was built and tested. These tests demonstrated that delta modulation is a useful technique for digital voice communication; in fact, delta modulated speech is of a quality suitable for many applications."
"A model is proposed to permit the calculation of the remanence in a magnetic tape that is subject to various magnetizing processes. A combination of a regenerative local field and the Preisach diagram is proposed to account for particle interaction. It is shown that, although the Preisach diagram is not stable, its shape does not have to change as it moves, due to changes in the bulk magnetization I. In fact, the Preisach density function J(H+, H-) could be replaced by J(H+ + αI, H- -αI). The regenerative action is necessary to reduce the calculated spread of the distribution, which is many times the observed value. The best agreement between calculation and experiments is obtained by assuming that the fundamental magnetic particle is spherical, which is consistent with the \"chain of spheres\" model for interaction-free magnetization."
"A noise generator of known output is very convenient in noise measurement. At low audio frequencies, however, all devices, including noise sources, may be affected by excess noise (1/f noise). It is therefore very desirable to be able to check the spectral density of a noise source before it is used for measurement purposes. The spectral density of a noise source may be found by measuring its rms output over a known noise bandwidth. Such a bandwidth may be provided by a passive filter using accurately known elements. For example, the parallel resonant circuit with purely parallel damping has a noise bandwidth Bn = π/2 × (3dB bandwidth). To apply this method to low audio frequencies, the noise bandwidth of the low Q parallel resonant circuit has been found, including the effects of both series and parallel damping. The method has been used to calibrate a General Radio 1390-B noise generator, for the range 30-10 000 Hz. The results found agree well with the specified performance of the generator."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"Provides a listing of upcoming events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Silicon monolithic circuits are best suited for applications with low power dissipation. Conventional approaches to audio power amplifiers have a rather limited efficiency, and are therefore not necessarily the best choice for integrated circuits. Pulse-width modulation, however, promises an efficiency of up to 100 percent and has several other advantages. Three approaches to amplitude to pulse-width conversion are discussed and compared: comparison of the audio signal with a triangle waveform, switching stages with hysteresis and RC feedback, and modified multivibrators. Possible configurations of output stages are listed. The use of complementary transistors results in higher efficiency and lower distortion."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Voice communication becomes extremely difficult, if not impossible, when helium-oxygen breathing mixtures are substituted for air in deep-sea diving to overcome physiological problems. The effects of helium and pressure on speech intelligibility are discussed. With the helium voice unscrambler described, effective speech conversation was conducted with various helium-oxygen mixtures at depths to 300 feet. The unscrambler is useful even when high ambient acoustic noise is present, as in \"hard-hat\" diver applications."
"There is a growing need for voice communications underwater between divers and between divers and surface vessels. This paper discusses the general problem in terms of system analysis. The authors decided to direct their efforts toward the low-cost, volume market of the sport and commercial diver. A communicator for this purpose must be simple, reliable, and low in cost. Hydrotalk, the result of their development, radiates an omnidirectional, audio acoustical wave through the water medium. Reception is accomplished by the listening diver's unaided ear. A large part of the development involved the creation of an improved underwater transducer, having a high coefficient of coupling between its signal input current and the sound power produced in the water. While this device represents a real step forward in solving the underwater communications problem, the authors are aware that more work needs to be done in improving intelligibility of the voice signal input to the microphone. This will probably be in the direction of a simple and safe full-face diving mask, which will provide a common chamber for the nose and mouth in which to mount the microphone. The authors are continuing their development work along these lines."
"CBS Laboratories has performed a fundamental study of loudness from which several results already have emerged. A new set of equal-loudness contours has been obtained using octave bands of \"pink\" noise in a simulated living room environment. The CBS Laboratories contours differ radically from the Fletcher-Munson contours. Forward vs. backward inhibition tests were performed, from which a new summation function was deduced. A new duration vs. loudness level function was obtained for octave bands ranging in frequency from 125 Hz to 8 kHz. These data are being incorporated in an instrument for measuring sensory loudness level."
"Provides a listing of current society officers."
"The validity of a new approach to the problem of matching the acoustical impedance of a piston to the acoustical impedance of the medium into which it radiates power is examined. The device, called a K-coupler, consists in part of a duct or pipe which has an exponentially increasing opening cut in one side. It is shown that the behavior of the K-coupler may be approximately described by the use of equations similar to those that describe the behavior of an exponential horn. Experimental data that show input impedance as a function of frequency are presented."
"A new interphone system has been developed providing a high degree of intelligibility and listener comfort in ambient levels up to 125 dB sound-pressure level. This paper discusses some of the novel electronic features employed, including 1) Automatic Gain Control (AGC) with recovery inhibition to prevent noise \"pumping\" during speech pauses, 2) Automatic Level Compensation (ALC) for automatic adjustment of listening level with changing ambient, and 3) highly reliable voice-actuated switching (VOX) at widely varying ambient levels."
"Communication equipment for use by divers involves problem areas that are normally not considered as part of the design engineer's interest. Because all equipment carried by the diver must be considered in the context of his life support system, design engineering is critically affected by the diver's psychological attitude, his physiological limitations in stress situations, and the compatibility of peripheral equipment with the basic life support system. This paper deals with some of the major problems indigenous to each of these areas, the effect on system design and the solutions used in each area in the design of a 42 kHz amplitude-modulated, wireless diver communication unit. Having attained an acceptable design, evidenced by several hundred working units in the field, the author discusses some of the pressing needs for diver communication today."
"The principle of speech clipping at audio and radio frequencies has been fully investigated to determine its advantages in peak-power-limited systems in which the signal is to be transmitted through a noisy channel at radio frequencies. This paper describes the advantages of radio frequency clipping and filtering in systems in which the noise is encountered when transmitting the speech signal at audio frequencies. Articulation test results showing a 20 percent improvement in intelligibility are presented, as well as repeaking measurements to show the advantage of this method of processing speech in the type of system considered."
"The paper is based upon the statistical theory of signals. It is shown that the variation of the clipped Gaussian noise spectrum is 5 percent, while the normalized cross-correlation function is 0.80; the results are extended to more general cases. A property of the conditional mean value of speech signals is derived. A typical value of the normalized intelligibility of clipped speech in the presence of noise is 0.70 for S/N = 3 dB; assuming the ear is a clipper, theoretical results are well in agreement. The existence of an intelligibility threshold is shown. The need for information on the envelope (or dynamics) of the speech wave to meet the requirement of naturalness is underlined."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"Provides an overview of the technical articles and features presented in this issue."
"The present report calculates in some detail the (intensity) spectrum to be expected for clipped (also called \"limited\") noise. Two cases are considered: (A), the clipping of an unmodulated noise band (DINA) [1] and (B) a carrier modulated by clipped noise. The computations are made for various shapes of noise bands before clipping, viz., 1) a uniform or rectangular structure, 2) a Gaussian distribution, 3) an \"optical\" (Lorentzian) shape factor of the type 1/[(v-v0)2+ δ2]. The simplest type of calculation to make is that for what we term \"extreme clipping,\" wherein the limiting amplitude is very small compared to the rms amplitude before clipping. The mathematical theory for this is given in Section III, while Section IV develops the theory for clipping at an arbitrary level. The basic mathematical method, which is rather general and is useful, we believe, for a variety of noise problems, is presented in Section II and consists in utilizing a relation between the correlation function and the normal surface, along lines suggested by Rice [1]. The results of the calculation are discussed in Section I and are displayed in Figures 4-10 and Tables I and II. If the clipping is not down to more than the rms level before limiting (equivalent to clipping at about 1.4 times the rms level after clipping), there is practically no distortion of the spectrum. Even in the case of extreme clipping the wastage of power due to spoiling of the spectrum's uniformity is small, amounting to only 31 percent in (A) and 24 percent in (B). Of the 31 percent loss in (A), 19 percent is due to production of harmonics of the central frequency. Corresponding harmonics are absent in (B). Clipping is beneficial for jamming purposes in either (A) or (B) since it reduces the peak power requirements. In addition, in (B) it materially diminishes the wastage of power in the carrier frequency. These facts are demonstrated particularly clearly by Tables I and II. For instance, Table II shows us that in (B) the ratio of the energy in the noise sideband to that in the carrier is only 0.23 when the clipping level is twice the original rms noise level, but increases to 0.52 when these two levels are the same, and to 1.0 for extreme clipping. It is to be cautioned that the present report calculates only the (intensity) spectrum of the clipped noise, and does not deal with its effectiveness on a receiver, which we hope to discuss later from a quantitative standpoint [2]. We can, however, say qualitatively that if the receiver breadth is very small compared to the noise band, the received disturbance will have the same type of Gaussian fluctuation, and hence the same effectiveness as unclipped noise with the same spectral distribution. On the other hand, if the receiver is comparable with the noise band in width, there will be, due to the clipping, a tendency for a \"ceiling\" in the resultant deflection of the recording device, and under these conditions the utility of clipped noise for jamming is materially diminished."
"In this paper, a novel method of evaluating transient responses of linear time-invariant systems using the state space approach is described. Given the Laplace transform of the response function as a ratio of two polynomials in the complex frequency of proper form, the corresponding linear state space equation is formulated. A recursive formula for the transient response is derived from the exact solution of the state space equation. Numerical solutions can be obtained for any desired interval of the response time. This method is simple, accurate, and effective, especially when used with a digital computer."
"Characteristics of a sealed vacuum gap are described and the difficulties encountered in applying this gap as an overvoltage protection device are discussed. It is shown how these difficulties can be ameliorated by the use of gas-free electrode materials and by triggering the gap when breakdown is required. Several methods of triggering are discussed and some practical triggering devices are described that inject minute quantities of ionized hydrogen into the gap. The hydrogen is eventually recovered by the use of a titanium hydride getter. It is shown that breakdown of the gap can be accomplished in less than one-tenth microsecond by first producing a glow discharge that is rapidly transformed into a metal-vapor arc. Properties of the metal-vapor arc are described which have an effect on the characteristics of the vacuum gap. A number of practical sealed-off triggered vacuum gaps are illustrated. These are used to carry microsecond capacitor discharge currents and 60-cycle power line currents for ½ cycle. The operating voltage range is from a few hundred volts to 100 kV. The advantages of vacuum gaps over gas-filled gaps are given and a number of overvoltage protection and switching applications are listed."
"Conventional matched filters which use pseudorandom or noise-like waveforms attempt to compensate for the Doppler effect by cross-correlating the received waveforms with frequency shifted replicas of the transmitted waveform. However, frequency translation is only an approximation to the actual Doppler effect which is a time-expansion or time-compression of the waveform resulting from the continuous expansion or compression of the transit path. This paper investigates the effects of Doppler dispersion in matched filters which use frequency translation for Doppler compensation. It is found that the effects of Doppler dispersion are independent of the carrier frequency and negligible if the dispersion product, i.e., the absolute magnitude of the product of the signal bandwidth, duration, and delay rate, is less than unity. If the dispersion product is greater than unity the dispersion effects are serious. In the latter case the time and frequency resolution of the system are degraded and the output pulse is reduced in amplitude. The maximum improvement that can be obtained in the signal-to-noise power ratio is equal to the reciprocal of the delay rate magnitude. This maximum signal-to-noise gain is achieved when the time-bandwidth product of the receiver is chosen such that the dispersion product is approximately unity."
"A reading device for the blind is proposed in which a facsimile of ordinary printed material is presented tactually. The tactile image is presented by a dense array of pins which can be made to vibrate individually through perforations in a plate on which the user's finger is rested. In the arrangement proposed, the image of ordinary printed matter is focused on an array of photocells which are coupled one-to-one to piezoelectric reeds which drive the image-producing pins. The feasibility of this arrangement has been evaluated, and relations among the design parameters are derived. The power required to drive each pin for adequate tactile stimulation is shown to be only about 30 µW. Present photocell sensitivities and integrated circuit techniques appear to be adequate for a convenient microminiature realization of this arrangement, although several technical development problems remain to be solved. Successful reading tests with blind subjects are reported in which a computer controller simulates the optical portion of the system. The tactile images presented on a field of 96 piezoelectrically driven pins have been readable by the three subjects tested at rates of about 30 correct words per minute."
"The pill box antenna, in common with waveguide apertures and shallow horns with a small width in terms of wavelength in the direction of the E vector, on many occasions proves inconvenient in practical use due to the traveling waves set up on the outside of the radiator. Crenellations are described which substantially cancel this backward radiation, and provide 3 dB increase in forward gain together with a large reduction of standing waves within the pill box."
"It is shown that the noise factor (F) in a transistor, by setting the emitter current at its optimum value, is given by the ratio of source resistance (Rs) and base spread resistance (rb) and a factor that depends on the current-gain (β). This results generally in a lower noise factor (F) than that found by differentiation of F with respect to the source resistance."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"Provides an overview of the technical articles and features presented in this issue."
"The paper discusses progress made in the field of quartz crystal units and quartz crystal controlled oscillators over the past few years. The field is reviewed in general, but several accomplishments which are thought to be of special importance, are discussed in detail. These subjects include, among others, quartz vibrator characteristics and enclosures, modes of motion including the \"trapped energy\" concept and long-term drift (aging) of crystal units. The characteristics of various types of oscillators are reviewed including temperature compensated and high precision types, and the problem of short-term stability of crystal controlled oscillators is discussed. Precision oscillators are available today with a daily drift rate as low as a few parts in 1011and a short time stability better than a few parts in 1010for a time period of one millisecond."
"The survey reviews the historical background and development of atomic frequency standards leading to the most recent achievements. A qualitative discussion of underlying principles is also included. Modern atomic frequency standards produced in the United States are illustrated, and performance data reflecting the present state of the art is presented. The comparison of the different types of atomic frequency standards is complicated by the many quantitative factors relating to performance and physical characteristics which differ in each case. However, on a qualitative basis it may be stated that rubidium gas cell frequency standards are, at the present time, the most compact, light weight atomic oscillators, and they have a high level of short-term stability. The long-term stability in this case exceeds that of the best quartz crystal oscillators by two or more orders of magnitude without the need for long warm-up or stabilization periods. Calibration in terms of a primary standard is required. The cost of rubidium frequency standards is less than that of other atomic standards. Cesium atomic beam frequency standards are somewhat larger and heavier than rubidium standards, and the short-term stability is limited by shot noise in the cesium tube resonance signal. However, the long term stability is very high, and the limits have not yet been measured for very long averaging periods. The cesium standard also has a high degree of intrinsic reproducibility which qualifies it for service as a primary standard without the need for calibration. The atomic hydrogen maser, at present, has the highest degree of short-term stability, long-term stability, and intrinsic reproducibility when compared with the other commercially produced atomic frequency standards. It is also the largest and the cost is influenced by the more advanced performance characteristics. New developments which are in progress include the thallium atomic beam controlled frequency standard and the active rubidium maser. Along with these advances, new improvements will continue to be made in the various characteristics of the established types of atomic frequency standards. It is likely that their relative qualities will remain approximately the same, as the absolute values of the characteristics are advanced."
"Precision quartz oscillators have three main sources of noise contributing to frequency fluctuations: thermal noise in the oscillator, additive noise contributed by auxiliary circuitry such as AGC, etc., and fluctuations in the quartz frequency itself as well as in the reactive elements associated with the crystal, leading to an f-1type of power spectral density in frequency fluctuations. Masers are influenced by the first two types of noise, and probably also by the third. The influence of these sources of noise on frequency fluctuation vs. averaging time measurements is discussed. The f-1-spectral density leads to results that depend on the length of time over which the measurements are made. An analysis of the effects of finite observation time is given. The characteristics of both passive and active atomic standards using a servo-controlled oscillator are discussed. The choice of servo time constant influences the frequency fluctuations observed as a function of averaging time and should be chosen for best performance with a given quartz oscillator and atomic reference. The conventional methods of handling random signals, i.e., variances, autocorrelation, and spectral densities, are applied to the special case of frequency and phase fluctuations in oscillators, in order to obtain meaningful criteria for specifying oscillator frequency stability. The interrelations between these specifications are developed in the course of the paper."
"The optically pumped rubidium maser oscillator is the most recent addition to a growing number of atomic frequency standards. It is the first atomic frequency standard which is small enough and simple enough to be considered as a replacement for crystal oscillators. These factors and the extreme phase stability which results from the maser action make this device unique among all frequency standards. The device generates a microwave output at the ground-state hyperfine frequency of Rb87(6835 Mc/s). The maser consists of a microwave cavity filled with Rb87vapor and nitrogen gas. Oscillation occurs when the vapor is illuminated with filtered rubidium resonance radiation. The power output of the maser is 10-10watts, and higher powers can be expected. In this paper the physical principles and construction of the device are described. The effects of optical pumping, buffer gas, and temperature on the maser are discussed, and experimental results are given. The short-term stability for observation times of about one second is expected to be about one part in 1012. This may be increased by an order of magnitude by increasing the powser output to 10-8watts. The long-term stability is expected to be comparable to that obtained in the passive rubidium standard (about one part in 1011per month). These slow fluctuations arise from pressure shifts, light shifts, cavity pulling, and changes in the chemical composition of the buffer gas. The long-term stability can be improved by using the rubidium maser as the flywheel for an atomic beam frequency standard. Such a combination could be expected to have both long-term and short-term stabilities as great as one part in 1013."
"The instability of passive atomic frequency standards caused by shot noise introduced by the atomic reference is calculated. This instability can be characterized by a figure of merit for the atomic reference, and the asymptotic functions for the rms frequency fluctuation for long and short averaging times expressed in terms of this quantity. Measurements of the rms frequency fluctuation of cesium atomic beam and rubidium vapor frequency standards are compared with theory, and the predicted performances of various existing and proposed atomic standards are tabulated. It is feasible to build atomic beam frequency standards whose stability for averaging times less than one second is limited by noise in the crystal oscillator rather than by shot noise, a criterion generally met by rubidium vapor frequency standards. For long averaging times, shot noise will always be the fundamental limiting factor in atomic frequency standard stability."
"By the method of fractional order of integration, it is shown that it is possible to generate flicker noise from \"white\" noise. A formal expression for the relation of flicker noise to white noise is given. An approximate method, amenable to the use of digital computers, is also given for the generation of flicker noise modulated numbers from random, independent numbers."
"An explicit expression for the output signal from an oscillator with several noise sources in the circuit is derived. This formula describes qualitatively and quantitatively the manner in which thermal and shot noise act to corrupt the performance of an ideal oscillator. The statistical properties of the signal are then evaluated, as it emerges from the oscillator stage, after passage through an output filter and after being operated on by an ideal n-times multiplier. Expressions are derived for the short term frequency stability, the power spectral density, and the power spectrum of the signal, as well as for the spectral density of the signal phase. The key to the results reported is an apparently novel perturbation technique which does not require smoothing of the instantaneous nonlinearity in the basic differential equation. Discussion of the solutions shows that the instantneous nonlinearities cause the device to act simultaneously like a linear AGC oscillator and like a high Q passive tuned circuit, with each aspect accorded one half the total noise excitation. Possible implications of this effect for other types of transient conditions in oscillators are indicated briefly."
"A cross-correlation technique for measuring the very short-term (milliseconds to seconds) properties of stable oscillators is described. Time-dependent functions representing signals from two separate oscillators are led to a function multiplier where the instantaneous product of the functions is made. The oscillators are either set to a given phase relation or allowed a small relative drift so that a slow beat frequency is observed. Short-term fluctuations superimposed upon the slow beat signal from the multiplier output will represent the instantaneous phase difference between the oscillators when the inputs are in quadrature. When the inputs are in and out of phase, the fluctuations represent amplitude fluctuations. The time averaging function is determined by a filter having a rectangular pass band from nearly zero frequency to a cutoff frequency vc. The mean square frequency deviation measured in a bandwidth ωcis obtained by differentiating, filtering, squaring, and averaging the signal from the function multiplier data being taken when the input signals are in quadrature. Mean square averages of amplitude and phase averaged over various bandwidths ωcmay be obtained by bypassing the differentiator. Sample data from measurements on hydrogen masers are presented, and the effect of thermal noise is seen to be the major factor limiting the short-term frequency stability of the signals."
"Since most systems that generate atomic time employ quartz crystal oscillators to improve reliability, it is essential to determine the effect on the precision of time measurements that these oscillators introduce. A detailed analysis of the calibration procedure shows that the third finite difference of the phase is closely related to the clock errors. It was also found, in agreement with others, that quartz crystal oscillators exhibit a \"flicker\" or |ω|-1type of noise modulating the frequency of the oscillator. The method of finite differences of the phase is shown to be a powerful means of classifying the statistical fluctuations of the phase and frequency for signal generators in general. By employing finite differences it is possible to avoid divergences normally associated with flicker noise spectra. Analysis of several cesium beam frequency standards have shown a complete lack of the |ω|-1type of noise modulation."
"A theoretical development is presented which results in a relationship between the expectation value of the standard deviation of the frequency fluctuations for any finite number of data samples and the infinite time average value of the standard deviation, which provides an invariant measure of an important quality factor of a frequency standard. A practical and straightforward method of determining the power spectral density of the frequency fluctuations from the variance of the frequency fluctuations, the sampling time, the number of samples taken, and the dependence on system bandwidth is also developed. Additional insight is also given into some of the problems that arise from the presence of \"flicker noise\" (spectrum proportional to |ω|-1) modulation of the frequency of an oscillator. The theory is applied in classifying the types of noise on the signals of frequency standards made available at NBS, Boulder Laboratories, such as: masers (both H and N15H3), the cesium beam frequency standard employed as the U. S. Frequency Standard, and rubidium gas cells. \"Flicker noise\" frequency modulation was not observed on the signals of masers for sampling times ranging from 0.1 second to 4 hours. In a comparison between the NBS hydrogen maser and the NBS III cesium beam, uncorrelated random noise was observed on the frequency fluctuations for sampling times extending to 4 hours; the fractional standard deviations of the frequency fluctuations were as low as 5 parts in 1014."
"Space communications and tracking systems impose stringent requirements on stable frequency sources. \"Flicker\" (1/f) noise and environmental modulation are two types of oscillator instability affecting typical space systems performance. Examples of several systems are presented with the source requirements for each. Earth satellite systems impose stability requirements of the order of 10-10over periods of seconds to hours depending on the individual experiment. A typical system requires phase noise of less than 5° rms in a receiver of 12 Hz bandwidth at S-band. An example is presented of a spacecraft transponder which must maintain phase noise below 45° peak-to-peak under vibration of 3g peak from 10 Hz to 10 KHz."
"Master oscillator requirements for coherent radar applications are derived from a consideration of the mainlobe width and sidelobe level objectives of the Doppler aperture function of the overall radar system. These parameters are related to the linewidth and sideband level of a carrier as modulated by the differential oscillator phase during a signal transit time. Both periodic and random phase modulation are considered. For the latter, techniques are given and illustrated by example for transforming oscillator stability characteristics measured in the time domain into a spectral form useful for radar design."
"Short-term frequency stability is an important parameter affecting resolution and range of a Doppler radar. This paper describes system and circuit requirements found in a typical airborne Doppler radar designed for operation in a severe vibration and acoustic environment. The characteristic of a Doppler radar which leads to short term stability requirements is its use of a narrow-band receiver to detect a Doppler-shifted target return which is weaker than clutter. The system short-term stability requirements are determined by the following two points: 1) Target return linewidth has a direct effect on sensitivity and velocity resolution; it determines the minimum useful Doppler filter bandwidth. 2) Transmitter and receiver local oscillator noise sidebands appearing on clutter determine the maximum possible sub-clutter visibility. Short-term stability for a Doppler radar is defined in terms of linewidth and spectrum. Oscillator and crystal requirements are derived from the system requirements. Measurements of linewidth and spectral purity under quiescent and environmental conditions are described, and vibration characteristics of quartz crystals are considered."
"The short-term frequency stability of microwave sources employed as carrier frequency generators in coherent radar systems is often expressed in terms of the power spectrum of the microwave signal. It may also be expressed in terms of the equivalent modulation spectrum that would produce the microwave signal spectrum. This paper discusses apparatus capable of measuring the modulating signal spectrum corresponding to a sideband-to-carrier level of -115 dB/Hz at 1000 Hz and greater from the carrier frequency at X-band. A passive reference is employed, although use of an active reference source is considered. Two stability measuring instruments are discussed, one utilizing a reflection cavity resonator and the other a transmission cavity resonator. The latter unit provides a number of significant features; for example, the capability of direct calibration, direct measurement of the limiting sensitivity of the instrumentation, and measurement of intentional frequency modulation of the source under observation."
"In this paper experimental data on the FM and AM noise of low-noise microwave tubes, \"solid-state klystrons,\" and solid-state chains of the types used in Doppler radars are presented. The tube types include magnetrons, klystrons, and triodes. Data on solid-state chains of the type consisting of a VHF crystal-controlled transistor oscillator, followed by a VHF transistor power amplifier, and a varactor frequency multiplier are also presented. The spectral shape of the solid-state chain is shown to differ from those of the microwave tubes and that of the \"solid-state klystron.\" Comparisons are made between the various devices."
"The systems under discussion are nonlinear, but driven by a strong periodic \"carrier.\" Examples of such systems are oscillators, frequency multipliers, limiters, modulators, and periodically driven feedback systems. It is of interest to inquire how small perturbations on the periodic driving are propagated throughout the system, and to this end a circuit theory for these perturbations is developed. In different Contexts these perturbations could be desired or undesired modulation, noise, hum, or synchronizing signals. In general the random processes in such a system will, because of the periodic driving, be nonstationary; but various representations are developed that are stationary, and hence can be described by spectral analysis. The concept of impedance is developed for the small perturbations, and the validity of Kirchhoff's Laws is examined. Specific problems are not treated in detail; instead, a general framework is set up within which a variety of problems can be analyzed. Problems of this sort include the theory of noise in oscillators, propagation of noise and modulation in nonlinear systems, the noise theory of frequency multipliers, and synchronization of oscillators."
"A simple method for measuring the Q of high Q microwave transmission cavities is presented. A klystron source is frequency modulated first at a low frequency (1 kc/s) and then at a high modulating frequency (about equal to the estimated cavity BW/2). The ratio of the indicated frequency deviation at the output of the cavity slope detector is used to enter the universal curve derived to determine the cavity bandwidth and hence its Q. This method requires only the use of easily available test instruments and is quickly performed. The accuracy is dependent only on relative values and not on absolute values of the frequency deviation detected."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"Provides an overview of the technical articles and features presented in this issue."
"Classical modulation theory deals mainly with single-parameter proportional modulation techniques, i.e., with processes such as AM and FM, wherein the amplitude or angle of a sinusoidal carrier wave is varied as a linear function of an information signal. Classical modulation theory has been immensely useful, but it is a restrictive theory because it can deal tractably with only a limited class of possible modulation processes. In this paper we seek to take the first few steps toward a broader and more unified theory of modulation--a theory which will encompass several recently proposed hybrid modulation schemes as well as conventional techniques, which will suggest new modulation processes, and which might lead toward unification of modulation theory and coding theory. The paper is divided into two parts. Part I is devoted to theoretical development as summarized below. The results of Part I are applied in Part II to study modulation processes per se. The paper as a whole is in the nature of a wide ranging survey rather than a rigorously detailed analysis. The most general form of modulated wave exhibits simultaneous phase and envelope fluctuations. In the first half of Part I, equations are developed to describe phase-envelope relationships when the wave is band-limited. These equations prove to be intimately dependent on the real and complex zeros of the wave. Real zeros (\"zero crossings\") are familiar physical attributes. Complex zeros, however, are physically rather covert and are a concept foreign to many engineers. Both kinds of zeros are easy to interpret mathematically in terms of the factorization of a Fourier series. In the second half of Part I, three simple examples are used to illustrate relationships between zeros, spectra, envelopes, and phase functions. These examples lead to operational procedures for representing signals in terms of zeros and, most importantly, to a viewpoint wherein zeros are regarded as fundamental informational attributes of signals. This viewpoint leads, in Part II, to the concept of modulation as zero manipulation."
"Experimental models of a 180-stage, thin-film scan generator suitable for digital scanning of an array of elements have been produced by evaporation of all components upon a glass substrate. The generator is a modified shift register, comprising 360-thin-film transistors (CdSe TFT's), 180 field-effect diodes, 360 resistors, and 180 capacitors. Output voltage pulses of two to four volts are obtained, with clock frequencies ranging from 12 kc/s up to 2 Mc/s. The complete circuit, including all active and passive elements, was deposited during one pump-down of the vacuum system. A wire grill having 480 wires per inch was used in combination with movable masks to define the patterns. Reproducibility of fabrication under laboratory conditions has been excellent. Seven out of eighteen recent experimental units were operable throughout all 180 stages. Units have been operated continuously on life test for more than 5000 hours at 85°C without failure of any stages. Successful operation of the entire generator requires all 1080 thin-film components to be free of short circuits and have operating characteristics within the range of tolerance of the circuit."
"The amplitude probability and pulse rate distributions of noise envelope have been made the basis of a study of some structural aspects of atmospheric radio noise in a tropical area. The lognormal character of radio noise in the tropics has also been investigated. Direct comparisons are made with results obtained in temperate latitudes. The differences in the structural characteristics of noise have been related to intense local thunderstorm activity on tropical land masses."
"Communications with coherent light through the atmosphere bring out new system limitations besides the ones imposed by attenuation and scattering normally associated with incoherent waves. This is so because the laser directivity and coherence responsible for increased channel capacity are easily destroyed or at least degraded by the presence of random thermal turbulences. Simple expressions describing the effects of atmospheric turbulence on laser beam propagation are obtained. Corresponding calculations yield the order of magnitude of such random phenomena as beam scanning, phase variation, beam cross-section change, amplitude and frequency modulation. In particular, the polarization fluctuation is predicted quantitatively in terms of the atmosphere mean square refractive index and its turbulence correlation length."
"Two new digital television bandwidth-reduction techniques are presented with experimental results. Each provides twice the efficiency of a conventional pulse code modulation (PCM) system with similar picture fidelity, and each is simple and feasible for present-day spacecraft Implementation. The Improved Gray Scale PCM system effectively eliminates, by an averaging process, the gray scale contouring effect encountered in low-bit digital TV systems. The Coarse-Fine PCM system is somewhat more complex, but provides a higher fidelity reproduction of the original picture. The basic principles of operation of these two new data-compression techniques are given along with comparative pictorial results."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"Provides an overview of the technical articles and features presented in this issue."
"A millimeter-wave system for the transmission and reception of television signals has been constructed. The propagation path is 450 meters above sea level at the transmitter and traverses an 18.95-km path to the receiver, which is at an elevation of 39 meters atop a two-story building in El Segundo, Calif. The elevation angle is 1.17 degrees when corrected for curvature and refraction. Received picture quality and tropospheric scintillation and attenuation for various weather conditions are discussed. Tropospheric attenuation ranged from about 13 dB on a typical day to approximately 36 dB when moderate rainfall (∼4 mm/hr) occurred over much of the 18.95-km path. Tropospheric turbulence effects were almost nonexistent on days of heavy fog but reached peak-to-peak magnitudes of 20 dB or more in received signal fluctuations on dry, windy days. High quality television and voice reception were obtained over this link even during light to moderate rainfall periods (∼3 mm/hr). A transmitter output of approximately 100 mW, 0.61-m parabolas at each end of the link, and a receiver noise figure of 25 dB were the main system characteristics. Tropospheric attenuation measurements are in close agreement with values calculated from modified versions of the Van Vleck expressions for attenuation due to oxygen and water vapor. The average of measured tropospheric attenuation rates was approximately 0.7 dB/km for July 1965."
"An antenna array has been constructed for reception of line-of-sight, ground-to-ground transmissions at 35 GHz over a 28-km path. It measures, individually, the amplitude and the relative phase of the arriving wave at each of eight antenna elements spaced horizontally over a distance of 24 m transverse to the path. Preliminary observations have shown perturbations in amplitude which appear at one end of the array and progress sequentially in a matter of seconds from element to element across the array. Similar traveling perturbations occur in the phase measurements. Variations in tilt of the wave front are observed, usually amounting from a few to tens of seconds of arc. In addition, changes in wave-front curvature have been measured corresponding to an apparent shrinkage or expansion of path length on the order of ten percent. Other capabilities of the array as a propagation-research tool are mentioned."
"Atmospheric absorption in the 600-Gc/s region was measured throughout the actual atmosphere by means of a DICKE-type superheterodyne radiometer receiver using second harmonic mixing. The average measured value of horizontal attenuation was approximately 34 dB/km/g/m3. The variation of water vapor absorption with respect to water vapor density was also indicated in the measured results. The minimum detectable temperature difference (ΔT)MINwas obtained by calculating the rms value of output deflection and the use of the calibration curve for the radiometer. The best value achieved was 5.2°K. From this result, the radiometer receiver noise figure and the mixer conversion loss were able to be determined indirectly. The results were 33.2 dB and 26.4 dB, respectively. A thermal calibrator was used to adjust and calibrate the radiometer, and as a source of radiation for the measurement program."
"Solar radiation measurements in the region from 50 micrometers to one millimeter wavelength were conducted during April, 1965, at Kitt Peak National Observatory near Tucson, Arizona. The manner in which these tests were conducted and the results obtained are described in this paper. It was found that when the total precipitable water-vapor content in the atmospheric path from the sun to the telescope was less than about 0.2 centimeter, the solar radiation was observable at several atmospheric windows having wavelengths greater than 300 µ, with the maximum transmission through the window at 345 µ, wavelength estimated to be on the order of two percent. The spectral data obtained under a variety of total water-vapor columns and path lengths are presented in a series of charts contained within this paper."
"Solar radiations at millimeter wavelengths consist of a basic component of thermal radiation from an undisturbed sun, a slowly varying component originating from active regions on the sun, and a solar burst component. Eclipse measurements of the brightness distribution have led to a quiet sun model of the chromosphere containing small jet-like spicules. High-resolution millimeter-wave measurements of the solar disk show that the slowly varying component is enhanced radiation from bright spots correlating with plage areas. An increase in brightness of a plage area is observed as early as one day before a plage region develops a flare. Both gradual-rise-and-fall bursts and outbursts have been observed at 4.3 mm. The large outbursts occur in the flash phase of a solar flare. Some of these outbursts had higher flux at 4.3 mm than at longer wavelengths of 3.15 cm and 9.4 cm."
"Details concerning the design, construction, and operation of thermal detection radiometers for wavelengths near one mm are given. The sensitivity of these systems greatly exceeds that of more conventional radiometers at short millimeter wavelengths. Although the present designs are shown to be far from optimum, they have made possible a considerable number of astronomical observations that were previously beyond the state of the art. Measurements of atmospheric attenuation in the one-mm window as a function of total precipitable water vapor are presented, and methods of reducing the effects of varying sky background are discussed."
"The scant two-decade existence of radar astronomy has seen important contributions by this new technique to positional astronomy, to the metrics of the solar system, and to the study of lunar and planetary surfaces. The role of millimeter wavelengths in this new astronomy is discussed and the problems unique to these short wavelengths defined. Brief mention is made of the importance of correlation of active and passive measurements and important new millimeter wave component requirements are listed. The implementation of an eight-millimeter radar capable of detecting the moon is described. At the eight-millimeter wavelength, the moon is found to be generally rough and has a radar cross section of about seven percent of its projected geometrical area. Methods of improving these measurements and their feasibility are outlined. Future equipment configurations capable of extending millimeter wave measurements can be implemented, given critical component development success."
"The investigation of atmospheric losses in the far-infrared and submillimeter wavelength regions has been pursued from both ends of the spectrum, i.e., from the infrared using IR spectroscopic techniques, and from the microwave region using coherent, high resolution spectroscopic methods. This paper describes the design of a Fabry-Perot semi-confocal interferometer, and its application to the measurement of atmospheric gas losses using coherent sources in the 100 Gc/s to 300 Gc/s frequency range. The tunable interferometer exhibits Q's as large as 3 × 105at 300 Gc/s, permitting the measurement of loss with a sensitivity of tan δ= 10-8and an error of five percent or less."
"The microwave absorption between 100 and 300 Gc/s by H2O vapor and its mixtures with N2, CO2, and O2has been measured at room temperature for intermediate and atmospheric pressures. Near the absorption lines the line shape parameters are close to those measured at low pressures by Rusk. Between the lines, very large absorption coefficients were observed, particularly for self-broadening and for broadening by CO2. This increased absorption is ascribed to collision-induced polarization of the molecules involved. Empirical formulas are given for the calculation of line shapes. These formulas require the use of four line-shape parameters for each mixture--two of these are for the line centers, the other two for the wings."
"A description is given of a molecular beam apparatus which extends electric resonance spectroscopy into the millimeter wavelength region. Interferometer techniques are employed to achieve high resolution of molecular rotational transitions. With the Ramsey double resonance technique, linewidths as narrow as 350 c/s have been attained for a hydrogen sulfide rotational transition at 168.7 Gc/s. Observations have been made as high as 216 Gc/s, and, with the methods described, the spectrometer can be used in the submillimeter wavelength region."
"This paper describes a microwave spectrometer technique which utilizes the nonlinear properties of resonance saturation in gases for the detection of absorption lines. An outline of the principle of detection which relies on the automatic balance of a resonant bridge is given, and methods of measuring line widths and relative intensities are obtained from a comprehensive analysis of the spectrometer output signal. The problem of sensitivity is examined, and some of the advantages of extending the technique to millimeter waves are indicated. A K-band saturation effect spectrometer has been constructed which exhibits a sensitivity of the order of 10-9cm-1with a resolution better than 100 kc/s."
"A method of measuring dielectric constants of materials in sheet form by insertion in a Fabry-Perot resonator is described. By tilting the dielectric sheet at a slight angle with respect to the system axis, the reflected wave can be eliminated. The working formula for determing the dielectric constant then reduces to a simple linear relation involving the ratio of the mirror motion required to restore resonance to the thickness of the dielectric. The method is applicable at all frequencies where Fabry-Perot resonators can be used and for materials with loss tangents less than one. A table of measured values of common dielectrics is presented for 143 Gc/s and 343 Gc/s."
"Thermal microwave phonons have been generated in thin resistive films deposited on X-cut quartz and sapphire crystals. The propagation characteristics of these teracycle phonons have been measured in these crystals, and the data have been analyzed using computer techniques. For this work, thin-film, superconducting bolometers were used as the phonon pulse-detecting element with apparently high sensitivity. The results indicated the onset of elastic dispersion in quartz."
"The rectifying properties of the cathode spot of a microscopic arc discharge (as first investigated by K. D. Froome) are used to generate high harmonics of a 37.5-kMc/s source. That these high harmonics can be used to do high resolution spectroscopy in the submillimeter range is demonstrated by a study of the pressure broadening of the J13 → 14 rotational transition of N2O at 0.85-mm wavelength."
"Design considerations for high power millimeter-wave oscillators and amplifiers are discussed. Typical structures, electron gun and beam systems, electrode configurations, and interaction processes are described, particularly with regard to their applications in the millimeter-wave portion of the spectrum. The advantages of the linear beam approach in the design of these sources become evident. Typical operating characteristics for general classes of amplifiers and oscillators are reviewed. A survey is presented of the various individual sources which are commercially available or have reached a practical prototype status."
"The theory and operation of the extended interaction oscillator (EIO) are presented. Details of an initial feasibility study at X-band are given. This study proved the practicality of using a space-charge focused electron beam, and provided AM and FM noise data. A space-charge focused Ka-band EIO, which produced 25 watts at 42.5 Gc/s, is described. A prediction of the output power and efficiency obtainable from both space-charge focused and permanent magnet focused EIO's, vs. frequency, is presented."
"The characteristics of a laser operating in the submillimeter wave region is described. The laser is capable of CW or pulse operation."
"Experimental results on a water vapor gas laser operating at a wavelength of 118 microns are presented. A four-inch diameter, two-meter focal length mirror resonator system was used with a mirror spacing of 3.75 meters. Each half of the gas discharge was pulsed with a separate modulator capable of delivering up to eight kV at 300 amperes in a five-µs pulse at repetition rates from 50 to 500 per second. Data on laser output vs. discharge current, gas pressure, cavity length, and time separation of modular pulses are given. Typical peak-power outputs at one mm Hg pressure and three amperes per cm2current density were in excess of three milliwatts. Output coupling was achieved by means of a two-millimeter diameter hole in one resonator mirror."
"A 6-MeV racetrack microtron has been used to generate millimeter radiation with a Fabry-Perot radiator having no dielectric medium. The electron beam is injected at an angle to the axis of the Fabry-Perot in order to achieve interaction with the transverse electric field in the cavity. Radiation is coupled out of the cavity in the zero order of a reflection grating used as one end plate. Radiation resistances of the order of one kilohm are obtained at 4 mm. A corresponding submillimeter design is shown."
"The resonator is an open structure formed by two concave conical reflectors mounted coaxially, and it supports traveling wave resonances. In a simplified wave picture of the field, the normal modes look like a set of plane wavefronts propagating parallel to the axis in one direction and conical wavefronts propagating in the opposite direction. One of the normal modes has TM01- TM0Ntype symmetry for the two traveling waves, and exhibits lower diffraction losses than a plane Fabry-Perot resonator of similar dimensions. This type of mode field established in a suitable dielectric could presumably couple to an electron stream along the axis through the Cerenkov effect, and would thus provide feedback."
"The use of Josephson-type superconducting tunnel junctions (two superconductors separated by a very thin insulating layer) as generators of radiation in the range 5 GHz to 1000 GHz is discussed. To this end, the results of recent experiments on the observation of X-band radiation from such junctions are presented, along with a complete discussion of the theory of such junctions. Their potential use as detectors, voltage sources, and harmonic multipliers is also discussed."
"Millimeter-wave \"point-contact\" diodes are classed as conventional point-contact diodes (and modifications on them), which depend primarily upon a point-contact metal-semiconductor junction for their rectification properties; or as junction diodes with point-contact geometry, which are small-area millimeter-wave adaptations of the p-n junction diodes, normally made for use at lower frequencies by alloying, diffusion and other techniques. In a general way, techniques used in the fabrication of these various diodes are described; then the uses to which they have been put is detailed, and the best reported performance characteristics in various millimeter-wave applications are compared. Emphasis is put on demonstrated performance, but highly experimental and tentative laboratory results are freely quoted. Included are discussions of 1) conventional point-contact diodes of various semiconductors; 2) diodes having point-contact geometry but exhibiting electrical properties approximating those of alloyed and diffused p-n junctions, diodes made by planar techniques, a \"thermoelectric effect hot carrier\" diode, point-contact photodetectors and photoemitters; and 3) a millimeter-wave avalanche transit-time oscillator diode. The use of these diodes as millimeter-wave detectors, amplifiers, oscillators, harmonic generators, and modulators is considered."
"A microwave detector based on the thermoelectric effect of warm carriers in bulk semiconductors is described. An analysis of device performance is presented, which is based on the assumption of a Maxwell-Boltzmann distribution for the heated carriers. The performance of a number of experimental devices at millimeter and centimeter wavelengths is shown to be in good agreement with analytic predictions. Outstanding characteristics of these devices are high detection sensitivity, high burn-out power, and high electrical stability over long periods of use."
"The devices described include video detectors, mixers, harmonic mixers, and harmonic generators. A general discussion of the theoretical potential and limitations of these diodes is given, based on the equivalent circuit representation. This model is shown by experimental results to be valid up through 600 GHz. Diode materials, structures and forming techniques are described which have resulted in significantly improved electrical performance, as well as improved reliability and repeatability. Experimental results are quoted for detector sensitivities from 70 through 420 GHz, fundamental mixer conversion losses from 35 through 300 GHz, harmonic mixer conversion losses from 93 through 600 GHz, and harmonic generation efficiencies from fundamental frequencies of 60 through 140 GHz. The repeatability of mixer performance indicates that construction of balanced mixers is now feasible throughout the millimeter wavelength region. The improved harmonic mixer conversion losses permit construction of practical superheterodyne receivers at frequencies where local oscillator sources are impractical or unavailable. The harmonic generation capability at high frequencies (for example, at 140 GHz, one mW with diodes in the variable resistance mode and 15 mW with diodes in the varactor mode) is seen to permit the extension of frequencies for solid-state oscillators. If full advantage is taken of the capabilities of these devices, a large variety of millimeter wave systems can be assembled, including high resolution raders, high thermal sensitivity radiometers, broad bandwidth communication systems, as well as laboratory systems for mearsurement use or spectroscopic studies."
"This paper is primarily concerned with the theoretical calculation of the effective load impedance of a tunnel diode mounted in a microwave structure. The general procedure is outlined and the particular problem of a tunnel diode mounted in a rectangular waveguide is analyzed in some detail. The theoretical results are compared with experimental data of other authors."
"Heterodyne detection (mixing) at millimeter wavelengths has been demonstrated in a distributed structure of bulk semiconductor, combining large dimensions, ease of matching, etc. The nonlinear mechanism utilized involves the increase in conductivity of indium antimonide at cryogenic temperatures due to the heating of the free electrons by absorption of RF power. The conversion loss and noise properties were analyzed. A minimum conversion loss of 6 dB is calculated. The method of operation was verified by constructing and testing a low-frequency prototype operating at one Mc/s which uses a commercially available room-temperature bolometer. The measured conversion loss of 25.0 dB checked the analysis within 2.2 dB. Millimeter mixing in the 8-mm region (30 to 40 Gc/s) was demonstrated using bulk n-type indium antimonide as the nonlinear element. Conversion losses as low as 18 dB were measured at 4.2°K, using a 1.5 Mc/s IF, from which a conversion loss as low as 12 dB was calculated by correcting for dissipative loss and other effects. For low conversion losses, an upper limit is placed on the IF frequency by the time constant of the InSb mixer element, which is near 10-7second. Envelope detection measurements were carried out at 8 mm and 2 mm. The use of compensated InSb elements at liquid-helium temperature has yielded responsivities as high as 3500 V/W at 35 Gc/s and 150 Gc/s."
"A zero magnetic field millimeter maser is described which uses the iron ion Fe3+in a host crystalline structure of rutile, TiO2, as the active material. The maser operates as a classical three-level maser [1] between three doubly degenerate zero-field spin levels of the iron ion at a frequency of 81.3 Gc/s and is pumped at a frequency of 124.5 Gc/s. Net gain in excess of 20 dB with instantaneous bandwidths of 3-6 Mc/s have been obtained in a dielectric cavity type configuration."
"A detection scheme is proposed for millimeter and submillimeter waves. The scheme utilizes an appropriate system of quantum energy levels to down-convert the high-frequency radiation to a microwave frequency where very sensitive detectors are available. The principle of the scheme, the sensitivity and response time, and possible materials which may be employed are presented in this paper."
"The theoretical basis of antenna tolerance theory is reviewed. Formulas are presented for the axial loss of gain and the pattern degradation as a function of the reflector surface rms error and the surface spatial correlation. Methods of determining these quantities by astronomical or ground-based electrical measurements are described. Correlation between the theoretical predictions and the performance of actual large antenna structures is presented."
"Millimeter wave antennas are primarily parabolic reflectors, Cassegrain systems, and lenses. Comparative merits and the few design features peculiar to millimeter waves are discussed. Some of these antennas have larger gain and much larger gain per unit cost than any other microwave antennas. A few experimental arrays and ferrite scanners have been built. Brief mention is made of absorbers and radomes at millimeter waves."
"Quasi-optical filters consisting of iterations of dielectric slabs housed in oversized rectangular waveguide are described. Filters consisting of dielectric slabs separated by air of the same electrical length have been analyzed and constructed for the cases of normal incidence (two-port filters) and 45° incidence (four-port filters). The two-port filters have low-pass properties while the four-port filter has simultaneous low and high-pass properties. Experimental data on 9 mm and 0.9 mm models have shown good agreement with the theory, thus demonstrating their use as filters for millimeter and submillimeter wavelengths."
"The skin effect loss mechanism is a predominant factor which contributes to the deterioration in the performance of millimeter wave devices. Microphotolithography permits the definition of conductive waveguide boundaries in close proximity to extremely small semiconductor junctions thus removing lossy material. This concept has been implemented in a planar annular diode structure to confine a diode entirely within a diameter of 11 microns with a thickness of four microns. Microphotolithographic art permits the fabrication of semiconductor junctions and transmission line structures with dimensions approaching one micron. These techniques have been used to define single-mode rectangular dielectric image-line waveguide and depletion layer waveguide structures useful in the millimeter and infrared region."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"Provides an overview of the technical articles and features presented in this issue."
"Techniques for analysis and synthesis of speech signals are reviewed with emphasis on vocoders and related devices for more efficient transmission and storage of speech. Selected applications of speech coding methods as sensory aids to the handicapped are described."
"Part I of this two-part paper began with a study of band-limited signals which exhibit simultaneous phase and envelope fluctuations. The real and complex zeros of such signals were shown to be crucial parameters, and a viewpoint was established wherein zeros are regarded as fundamental informational attributes of signals. In Part II, the concept of modulation as zero manipulation is developed. This concept allows one to manipulate the zeros of a signal (i.e., to modulate the signal) in any practically convenient manner provided that the original zeros can be recovered in a demodulation process. The major portion of Part II is an illustrated survey of modulation processes. Narrow-band processes are dealt with first. Both well-known techniques, such as AM and SSB, and unconventional techniques are classified and explained in terms of zero manipulations. Conventional and single-sided forms of angle modulation are studied next. The zero-manipulation concept provides insight into the nature of the redundancy in wide-band angle modulation and suggests why angle modulation is both noise resistant and inefficient as a coding process. The final portion of the paper shows that the zero-manipulation concept can be used constructively as well as interpretively. Two topics are discussed: angle coding via zero conjugation, and interpolation of binary signals."
"When the equations of motion for any parametric system are written in terms of an appropriate set of normal modes, these equations have a general coupled-mode form which depends on the number of frequency components present and on the order of nonlinearity considered, but not on any other details of the specific system considered. This paper presents a simple procedure, based on a Hamiltonian approach, for obtaining the most general set of parametric coupled-mode equations for any number of frequency components and any order of nonlinearity. The procedure applies to parametrically coupled normal modes which grow in time, or to parametrically coupled waves which grow in distance and/or in time. The general equations obtained in this way are useful for pedagogic purposes and for general discussions of parametric interactions; for checking or even for bypassing detailed derivations on specific physical systems; and for proving the Manley-Rowe relations, which emerge very directly from the resulting general equations."
"This paper considers the problem of devising modulation techniques that allow a large number of earth stations to use, simultaneously, a satellite repeater with the transfer characteristics of a wide-band hard-limiting amplifier. Four distinct classes of modulation techniques and their singular properties are described. Three important design considerations are discussed: repeater bandwidth and power sharing, network timing, and operational considerations. The paper provides a framework for further study of the multiple access problem. The hard-limiting repeater is shown to accommodate a wide variety of signal designs. No single class of multiple-access modulation techniques is found to be uniformly best in satisfying all needs of the diverse networks which can use communication satellites."
"The work function of a polycrystalline rhenium surface in a cesium atmosphere was measured for a wide range of surface temperature (700 to 2100°K) and cesium pressure (0.0001 to 2.0 mm Hg.). The work function is found to depend only on the ratio Te/TRof the emitter to cesium reservoir temperatures. A map of the emission properties of rhenium is given."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"Provides an overview of the technical articles and features presented in this issue."
"This article gives a brief survey of various methods for network analysis by digital computer. Topics discussed include methods and programs for ladder networks, mesh and nodal analysis, network topology, electronic circuit analysis, state-variable analysis, n-port hybrid matrix analysis, and nonlinear circuit analysis. Also given is a brief discussion concerning algorithms for inverse Laplace transformation, and methods for obtaining magnitude, phase and delay responses in the frequency domain."
"Methods for measuring the energy density spectrum of burst-like events have been categorized. Five methods that rely on measuring samples of the energy density spectrum are distinguished. A tutorial exposition of the principles underlying these methods is given. This work represents the second phase of a program by the IEEE Subcommittee on Methods of Measurement of Noise of the G-AE Standards Committee aimed at developing a unified approach to burst measurements, and is an adaptation of the Technical Report on Recommended Practices for Burst Measurements in the Frequency Domain, IEEE No. 265."
"A new device is described, based on a much older but little-known experimental technique. Basically, the device is a thin film transistor with a ferroelectric gate insulator (hereafter referred to as FEFED for ferroelectric field effect device). This combination produces a device whose drain current-gate voltage characteristic reproduces the hysteresis character of the ferroelectric gate insulator. The unusual and useful characteristic results from the fact that the polarization charge of the ferroelectric is at least partially compensated by free charge in the semiconductor. Once polarized, the ferroelectric, ideally, maintains itself in this condition even while short-circuited, and this is reflected in the level of current in the adjacent semiconductor. Intermediate current levels between those determined by the positive and negative saturation polarization are accessible by limiting the charge available for switching. The device is capable of multi-level storage with continuous nondestructive readout. Readin as well as readout times can be in the microsecond range. A description of the device fabrication techniques as well as its characteristics, performance, and problems at this time are some of the topics which will be covered in detail."
"When Doppler distortions of radar signals can be neglected, correlation or matched-filter processing is relatively simple. In those applications where high resolution requirements and high target speeds combine, the distortions in the waveform lead to severe processing problems. One way around these difficulties is the so-called Doppler-invariant waveform, which stays matched to the filter in the presence of an arbitrarily large Doppler effect; however, in many situations this waveform cannot be used. This paper extends the idea of Doppler invariance to only parts of the waveform, the complex modulation function and the real envelope. We then obtain waveforms which simplify the Doppler search rather than eliminate it entirely, and hence are referred to as Doppler-tolerant. The addition of a constant-carrier term to the Doppler-invariant signal leads to the signal of which only the modulation function is Doppler-invariant. It permits independent measurement of range and range rate at the expense of having to search for the Doppler shift of the carrier. For applications of the principle to the envelope of a signal, the type of signal which is of particular interest is the pulse train. It is shown that a Doppler-tolerant pulse train can be designed such that it can be processed by a delay line with fixed taps even if the pulse spacing is significantly changed by the Doppler effect. This approach is useful for both coherent and incoherent pulse trains."
"In order for the human retina to achieve its very wide operating range (one billion to one in light intensity), high accuracy of spectral discrimination (the eye can distinguish among at least 10 million different shades of object color), constancy of object color, and uniform field of color perception, it appears necessary that the retinal receptors incorporate the following feedback-control processes: time-average feedback, spatial-average feedback, and automatic gain control. Time-average feedback would adapt each receptor to the time-average light it receives; spatial-average feedback would modify the signal from each receptor as a function of a weighted spatial-average of the receptor signals throughout the retina; and automatic gain control would keep the sensitivity of each receptor constant regardless of the adaptation conditions. This paper presents a model of a retinal receptor which incorporates these feedback control processes, and which appears to be consistent with physiological and psychological evidence."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"Provides an overview of the technical articles and features presented in this issue."
"The force density in polarizable and magnetizable fluids in nonuniform motion is evaluated in a way that is consistent with the special theory of relativity. The derivation is based on a generalization of the principle of virtual work. For application of the principle, it is necessary to know the energy density and power-flow density in a local rest frame of the fluid element under consideration. These are obtained from thermodynamic information and an extrapolation of the Poynting theorem applied to a rigid, nondeforming medium. Two different formulations of electrodynamics of moving and deforming media are compared. It is shown that they lead to the same force density if the same thermodynamic information is used in each of them. A simple model for the force density is obtained, starting from the E-H formulation."
"A tunnel diode switching circuit is discussed which is useful as well as representative and yet is simple and amenable to detailed analysis. A stability diagram is given showing how the equilibrium states of the circuit change in character as the circuit element values and diode bias are varied. It is shown that when the circuit is arranged to be monostable but with three equilibrium states it exhibits a true threshold for triggering and is, therefore, an ideal pulse amplitude discriminator and pulse regenerator. The ultimate speed capability of this circuit is investigated. Current and voltage waveforms similar to those actually observed are obtained by numerical integration of the nonlinear circuit equations. The dependence of pulse height, width, and cycle time on inductance is shown, and a scaling diagram is given showing the inductance and resistance that should be used with any diode in order to have an optimum cycle time. Several available diodes with 10 to 20 mA peak current may be used with practical loads (about 10 ohms and 1 nH) at repetition periods of 0.3 to 0.5 ns, or pulse rates of 2 to 3 Gc/s. However, a cycle time of 60 ps or pulse rate greater than 10 Gc/s is predicted if a 2 ohm, 20 pH load could be combined with a 100 mA, 1.8 pF junction, values corresponding to the best available diodes. Since the latter values of resistance and inductance are awkwardly low, it is concluded that pulse rates of 2 to 3 Gc/s are practical, and that substantially higher rates are possible but require improved circuits or diodes."
"A basic problem in signal theory is the reconstruction of a band-limited function f(t) from its sampled value f(nT). Because of a number of errors, the computed or physically realized signal is only approximately equal to f(t). The most common sampling errors are: round-off of f(nT), truncation of the series generating f(t), aliasing of frequency components above half the sampling rate 1/T, jitter in the recording times nT, loss of a number of sampled values, and imperfect filtering in the recovery of f(t). In the following we study the effect of these errors on the reconstructed signal and its Fourier transform."
"A cylindrical waveguide operating in the TE01mode can transmit powers of the order of thousands of megawatts in frequency ranges below 10 Gc/s with acceptable copper losses over distances of hundreds of miles, provided it can be made with sufficient accuracy to avoid excessive power transfer into other unwanted high-loss modes. The tolerances on the guide straightness appear to be the most severe limitation on the use of this type of guide as a high power system component. These tolerances are evaluated here and found to be of the order of 10 to 100 mils in distances of a few hundred feet for typical values of the other parameters such as 1.0 Gc/s in a 2-meter-diameter guide providing 1 dB power loss in a distance of 200 miles. Tolerances on diameter variations and cross-section ellipticity are also evaluated and found to be of the same order of magnitude as the deviations from straightness, but should be easier to control by the proper manufacturing process. It is also shown that low loss bends (about 0.01 dB/mile) with bending radii of the order of 0.5 mile are possible if the length of the bend is accurately controlled and the guide has a dielectric lining of the proper thickness."
"A new interpretation of the piezoelectric equations of state has been developed. In this representation, electromechanical energy conversion occurs only at the electrode edges, rather than everywhere under the electrodes. The present paper utilizes this concept to formulate an acoustic wave equation with inhomogeneous or driving terms occurring at the electrode edges. This equation is then solved by means of Green's function techniques. From this solution the admittance matrix and equivalent circuit of a slim, N-electrode piezoelectric bar are developed. Admittance functions were measured on several two-electrode bars; results agreed within 10 percent of theoretical predictions. The mathematical techniques utilized in this paper have applications which are not restricted to piezoelectric bars. These techniques are helpful for many piezoelectric problems in which it is desirable to perform analyses that do not increase in tediousness as electrode configuration increases in complexity."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"Provides an overview of the technical articles and features presented in this issue."
"This paper is a brief survey of the geophysical considerations which govern propagation of electromagnetic waves in the earth's crust. It is indicated that the electrical conductivity of crustal materials depends, in a very complicated manner, on moisture content, porosity, temperature, and pressure. It is suggested that communication ranges in the crust will seldom exceed 100 km except when basement rock conductivities are less than 10-6mho/meter."
"Coherent optical systems are useful for the processing of data collected by sidelooking synthetic-aperture radars. This type of radar, which is useful for generating fine-resolution terrain imagery, has the capability of providing along-track, or azimuth, resolution which is much finer than the azimuth dimension of the radiated beam itself; however, the attainment of this finer resolution requires extensive processing of the received radar signal. In this paper the form of the returning radar signals is discussed, as are the general reasons why optical processing of these signals might be attractive. The required processing can be viewed as a multichannel weighted vector summation, matched filtering operation, or cross-correlation operation; the cross-correlation viewpoint is developed, as is a corresponding optical processor implementation. The role of a conical lens in simplifying reference-function realization is discussed. Finally, a Fresnel-lens interpretation of the recorded radar signal leads to a discussion of the strong physical analogy between a coherent radar system and a coherent optical system."
"In this paper, a unified formulation is made for the optimization of directivity and signal-to-noise ratio of an arbitrary array, with or without a constraint on the array Q-factor. When there is a constraint, the solution is reduced to that of a polynomial; when there is no constraint, the solution is given in a very simple form. First, it is shown that for a given array geometry there exists a finite permissible range of the Q-factor and this range reduces to zero for large spacings. Second, a detailed comparison between four well-known excitations (uniform, Hansen-Woodyard, optimum cophasal, and optimum) is made and the main results are as follows, 1) The Hansen-Woodyard excitation yields a directivity higher than that of the uniform only when the element spacing is somewhat smaller than a half wavelength (λ/2), but at the price of much higher Q. On the other hand, it is much lower than that of the optimum excitation. 2) For spacing less than λ/2, the optimum excitation is strongly tapered toward the ends of the array and approximately antiphasa (i.e., 0, 180° 0, 180°, ...); whereas for spacing greater than or equal to λ/2, it is nearly uniform and cophasal. 3) For large spacings, the directivity of uniform excitation is nearly optimum. For small spacings, the optimum directivity becomes much higher than all others, but is always associated with an enormously large Q-factor. Therefore in this case a constraint of the Q-factor is important. 4) Hansen-Woodyard and uniform arrays have the interesting property that their sensitivity factors are independent of spacing. The optimization of signal-to-noise ratio is also demonstrated. In particular, the result shows that although an improvement in gain over the uniform excitation is very difficult to realize in practice, a substantial improvement in signal-to-noise ratio is entirely practical. Other numerical results and some extensions of the theory to aperture antennas are also included."
"The maximum available power gain and the admittance matrix are calculated for amplifier stages with three-terminal amplifier devices--electron tubes and transistors-imbedded in neutralizing networks. In analyzing this problem, the utility of the complete (indefinite) admittance matrix as a powerful tool for the analysis of such networks is shown."
"This paper describes an operational notation that characterizes basic optical elements as block diagrams and that, for bandlimited optical systems, gives results identical to those obtained by rigorous application of the Fresnel-Kirchhoff diffraction formula. In an analysis of a basic optical system in terms of this operational notation, it is shown how the system can perform either the imaging operation or the Fourier transform operation. Repeated application of this basic system results in cascaded systems that perform more complex operations."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"Provides an overview of the technical articles and features presented in this issue."
"This paper presents theoretical and experimental results for characterizing the signal transmission disturbances caused by the presence of rocket-exhaust plasmas in the propagation medium betwem a ground station and a rocket-powered vehicle. The object of this characterization is to provide quantitative data on the propagation effects of the exhaust plasma that are of critical importance in the design of space tele-instrumentation and communication systems. Basic propagation effects, including multipath and forward and back scatter are discussed, and important gross signal transmission parameters are defined and expressed. The general discussion of channel characteristics is followed by a presentation and discussion of typical results of measurements obtained from the Saturn test series. Three major effects of the presence of the exhaust plasma upon signal transmission are emphasized. These are the possibility of a large drop in received signal level, a significant reduction of coherence bandwidth caused by time-variant multipath, and an unusually high fading rate. The bearing of these effects upon the design and demodulation of signals for links that include a rocket-powered terminal or relay vehicle is discussed."
"A new theory of skin effect in linear conductors of arbitrary cross-sectional shape is proposed and illustrated by calculating the ac resistance of a flat conductor. The current flowing in any conductor may be decomposed into an infinite set of normal mode currents, all of which exist independently of each other. Each modal current may be calculated from the conductor terminal conditions by simple circuit theory. Use of this method presupposes knowledge of the normal modes, which are different for every cross-sectional shape. A general method of finding the normal modes is given. Excellent agreement with experimental data is reported."
"This paper is concerned with the nonlinear behavior of the second-order phase-locked loop (PLL) in the presence of noise. The loop filter is of the proportional-plus-integral control type. This filter corresponds to the one generally employed for carrier tracking purposes in the implementation of phase-coherent communication systems. The paper is composed essentially of two parts: the first part presents analytical results which pertain to the probability distribution of the phase-error. Since these analytical results are approximations, valid only for certain regions of signal-to-noise ratio, they are complemented by experimental results obtained from simulation of the PLL system in the laboratory. The experimental techniques used to measure the statistical properties of the loop behavior and the corresponding results comprise the second part of the paper. Approximate analytical expressions for the distribution of the system phase-error are first obtained by using the Fokker-Planck apparatus and, secondly, by assuming that the PLL behaves as a very narrow band-pass filter. The range of signal-to-noise ratios for which these approximations are valid is obtained by graphically comparing the analytical expressions to experimentally derived phase-error distributions. In addition, measurements relative to the variance of the phase-error are compared to those predicted by the linear PLL theory and the variance as computed from the approximate solutions. Finally, experimental results relative to the probability distribution of the time intervals between cycle-slipping events are given for signal-to-noise ratios in a range where the linear PLL theory does not apply. In particular, the maximum length of time the loop may be expected to remain in-lock is illustrated graphically as a function of signal-to-noise ratio in the loop bandwidth."
"Tunnel diodes have been made to operate above their resistive cutoff frequency by mounting them in tapered waveguides. The output is apparently due to harmonics of a lower frequency oscillation. The fundamental frequency was detected by means of a probe placed close to the diode. Examination of the diode's equivalent circuit indicates that it is unlikely that oscillations can occur above the resistive cutoff frequency."
"Metal shields (or fences) are useful in reducing the ground clutter received by a radar. The design of a clutter shield for an L-band monopulse radar employing a 60-ft parabolic reflector with Cassegrainian geometry is verified by scale-model measurements at Ka-band. It is shown that a 100-ft fence, at a distance 500 ft from the radar, will give a nominal one-way clutter reduction of 20 dB. Tracking is expected to be virtually unaffected down to about 7.8° in elevation, but the low limit on useful performance is about 4.8°. More than 10 dB additional clutter reduction can be achieved by cutting rectangular slots in the top edge of the fence. However, polarization dependence and antenna geometry yield an average clutter suppression of 5 dB. In addition, the slots as other periodic structures are subject to \"grating lobes.\" These place a restriction on the fence geometry. This is investigated experimentally on the scale model and explained by a mathematical analysis. A nonperiodic edge treatment is expected to be free of this troublesome effect."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"Provides an overview of the technical articles and features presented in this issue."
"The demonstration of the laser five years ago has had a remarkable effect on electronics and optics. The laser is different from many previous developments in that it provides somethingt hat had been completely unavailable: coherent light at significant power levels. The maser, although a novel concept, merely represented an improvement iri the wellexplored field of coherent microwaves, and could be applied immediately. The application of the laser, on the other hand, awaits further developments in many related fields. Mter five years of intense activity, it is still not clear where the major applications of the laser will be. We have collected in this issue a series of papers that describe the state-of-the-art of various types of lasers. Two other papers review the broad applications areas of communications and computers. Gaussian beams and resonators, solid-state and electron tube detectors, and nonlinear optical effects are discussed in other articles. The remaining papers deal with some of the methods being considered for light modulation and beam deflection. The coverage is by no means complete and, for one reason or another, we have decided to leave out such relevant topics as holography, metrology, machining, welding, noise and communication theory, and scientific, medical, military, and space applications."
"A survey of crystalline solid lasers is presented. Crystalline host materials are described, pointing out their characteristics pertinent for laser systems. Rare earth and transition metal impurities operated as lasers are tabulated and the role of sensitization in increasing the overall efficiency of laser systems is described. Characteristics of operating CW lasers are given, and some applications and research directions are suggested."
"After a general discussion of the merits of glass vs. crystals as host materials for laser ions, a summary is given of the various glass lasers. Because of its importance as an efficient, room temperature laser the properties of neodymium are considered in greater detail. This includes the nonlaser properties of Nd3+in glass, the spectral and temporal emission characteristics of Nd3+lasers, and Nd3+laser configurations. Separate sections deal with the other two room temperature lasers which use Yb3+or Er3+. The problem of thermal of laser cavities is also discussed. Finally, a survey is given of the glasses that are useful as Faraday rotators."
"A review is given of the present status of gas discharge lasers, with particular attention to developments reported in 1965 and early 1966. Following a brief history, gas lasers are classified by types--neutral atom, ion, and molecular--and a comparison is given of the properties of the various types. A short discussion is given of noise and coherence properties. Detailed descriptions are given of three recent developments of particular interest--the CO2laser, the argon-ion laser, and pulsed self-terminating lasers. Finally, brief mention is made of the most important present applications of gas lasers."
"This paper is a review of semiconductor laser work. The principles of operation are discussed. The stress is on work since early 1964. The present state-of-the-art in GaAs junction lasers is described."
"Frequency shifts of a 6328 Å single frequency laser stabilized on the Lamp dip have been measured as a function of total helium-neon pressure and for several gas mixtures. The total shift in the pressure region between 2 and 4 torr is about 40 MHz, with a constant region between 2 and 2.5 torr. A simplified theoretical treatment is given based upon collision broadened phase shifts and line widths determined in other laser experiments. It is shown that the variations in these parameters with pressure form the basis of an adequate prediction of the observed pressure shifts."
"The applicability of lasers to the logic, mentory, input-output, and data transmission linkages portions of computers are analyzed qualitatively. The more promising potential applications are considered to lie in the memory, interconnection, and input-output areas, and the least promising in the fast logic area. Coherent optical data preprocessing is cited as an example of an already clearly useful laser application."
"The availability of coherent sources producing usable amounts of power in the optical frequency range has stimulated considerable research in optical communications. Devices such as oscillators, modulators, detectors, and ancillary apparatus having desirable characteristics exist and are being used to design and build prototype terminals. Two possible media are being studied and means are being sought to improve their performance. They are 1) through-the-atmosphere propagation and 2) enclosed media with appropriate focusing and directing elements. Experimental optical transmission systems can readily be assembled with information capacities in a single RF channel comparable to those of microwave radio or millimeter waveguide. Such optical systems are not yet competitive for high reliability common carrier service because 1) long-distance transmission techniques of adequate reliability have not yet been advanced, and 2) optical repeater components are not yet competitive with their lower frequency counterparts. Some features characteristic of optical transmission systems are reviewed in this paper, along with a brief indication of the state-of-the-art for major components."
"This paper is a review of the theory of laser beams and resonators. It is meant to be tutorial in nature and useful in scope. No attempt is made to be exhaustive in the treatment. Rather, emphasis is placed on formulations and derivations which lead to basic understanding and on results which bear practical significance."
"The integral equation of a \"flat-roof resonator\" is solved by the Fox and Li method of iteration in a number of particular cases. Mode patterns, phase shifts, and power losses are derived. A good overall agreement is found with the approximate theory previously developed by Toraldo di Francia. Some experimental tests carried out on a microwave model give a further confirmation of the theoretical predictions."
"This paper is intended as a status report on high-speed detectors for the visible and near-infrared portion of the optical spectrum. Both vacuum and solid-state detectors are discussed, with the emphasis on those devices which can be used as direct (noncoherent) detectors of weak optical signals modulated at microwave frequencies. The best detectors for this application have internal current gain and in this regard the relevant properties and limitations of high-frequency secondary emission multiplication in vacuum tube devices and avalanche multiplication in p-n junctions are summarized."
"An optical heterodyne receiver is, in effect, both a receiver and an antenna. As an antenna it has an effective aperture or capture cross section AR(Ω) for plane wave signals arriving from any direction Ω. The wavefront alignment between signal and local-oscillator (LO) beams required for effective optical heterodyning may be summarized in the \"antenna theorem\" ∫∫AR(Ω)dΩ = [η2/η2]λ2where the moments of the quantum efficiency η are evaluated over the photosensitive surface. Thus, an optical heterodyne having effective aperture ARfor signals arriving within a single main antenna lobe or field of view of solid angle ΩRis limited by the constraint ARΩR≈ λ2. Optical elements placed in the signal and/or LO beam paths can vary the trade-off between ARand ΩRbut cannot change their product. It is also noted that an optical heterodyne is an insensitive detector for thermal radiation, since a thermal source filling the receiver's field of view must have a temperature T ≈ [In (1 + η)]-1hf/k to be detected with S/N ≈ 1. Optical heterodyning can be useful in practical situations, however, for detecting Doppler shifts in coherent light scattered by liquids, gases, or small particles. Another antenna theorem applicable to this problem says that in a scattering experiment the received power will be ≲ Nσλ/4π times the transmitted power, where N is the density of scatterers and σ is the total scattering cross section of a single scatterer. The equality sign is obtained only when a single aperture serves as both. transmitting and receiving aperture, or when two separate apertures are optimally focused at short range onto a common volume."
"Recent advances in the field of nonlinear optical phenomena are reviewed with particular empphasis placed on such topics as parametric oscillation self-focusing and trapping of laser beams, and stimulated Raman, Rayleigh, and Brillouin scattering. The optical frequency radiation is treated classically in terms of the amplitudes and phases of the electromagnetic fields. The interactions of light waves in a mterial are then formulated in terms of Maxwell's equations and the electric dipole approximation. In this method, non-linear susceptibility tensors are introdueed which relate the induced dipole moment to a power series expansion in field strengths. The tensor nature and the frequency dependence of the nonlinearity coefficients are considered. The various experimental, observations are described and interpreted in terms of this formalism."
"The field of electrooptic light modulation by means of the Pockels and Kerr effects in crystals is summarized with particular attention to communications applications using the optical maser. AH available data on electrooptic materials are tabulated, and design considerations and operating principles for various modulator configurations are outlined."
"A review of the principles of acoustooptical devices is given. Some very simple momentum conservation considerations indicate the optimum relationship between the optical and acoustic beam dimensions for various functions such as scanning or modulation. A calculation for the usual type of acoustic amplitude modulation is described, and serves as an example of the type of detailed considerations that are necessary and possible, as well as a verification of the validity of the simple momentum considerations. It is shown that the product of the fraction of the light that may be scattered and the bandwidth for Bragg scattering equals a materials constant times the acoustic power. This relationship is shown to be valid even to the extent of numerical constants for several configurations allowing a trade-off between these parameters. Thus, the required modulation power for any level of device performance is easily determined. The details of acoustic deflection under conditions of acoustic beam focusing or scanning are also given."
"The paper reviews the application of internal time-varying perturbation to the problem of laser mode control and stabilization. The spectral characteristics and time domain behavior obtained by means of phase type and loss type perturbations are considered. Two techniques which allow the attainment of high single frequency output powers from normally multimode lasers are described. A method for the absolute frequency stabilization of an FM laser is considered, and a brief discussion of an efficient method of internal modulation, termed coupling modulation, is given."
"Carbon disulfide has identical microwave and optical dielectric constants, as well as extremely low optical and microwave loss. These properties make it possible to construct long traveling-wave fight modulators at microwave frequencies using the Kerr electrooptic effect induced in CS2by an electric field propagating on a TEM transmission line. Several experiments with traveling-wave Kerr cells consisting of resonant strip transmission lines immersed in CS2are described. A decrease in the microwave power required for modulation by a factor of two, by cooling the modulators to a temperature of -55°C, is demonstrated. Simultaneous modulation of light at two microwave frequencies by excitation of two of the longitudinal modes of the strip line resonator is also described. Relatively high efficiency modulation with long devices of this type is also reported. In these experiments, the microwave power required for large depths of modulation is reduced by almost two orders of magnitude compared to previously reported CS2light modulators, and is within less than a factor of two of the calculated power for cells up to 44 cm in length. For longer cells, increasingly larger than predicted powers are required."
"Several electrooptic digital light deflection techniques have been proposed. The maximum number of resolvable deflection positions for all methods is determined, essentially, by economic reasons, the tolerable amount of background fight, and aberrations. In this paper, three different types of deflection methods (split angle, total internal reflection, Wollaston prism) are described. Design, construction details and performance of three deflector models are reported. Combined deflection systems use the advantageous properties of each of these methods to economically obtain the maximum number of resolvable deflection positions. A suggested combination to achieve 1024 × 1024 positions arranged in a two-dimensional field would consist of one total internal reflection stage, seven stages of split angles, and two stages of Wollaston prisms for each dimension."
"Bragg reflection of laser light by ultrasonic waves in water produces the horizontal deflection in a television display. The ultrasonic waves are frequency-modulated with a sawtooth function. Deflection angles are small but there are 200 resolvable positions; the constant rate of angular change which characterizes a television scan permits the use of a wide optical aperture, leading to a small spot size. Conventional optical magnification follows the horizontal deflection, rendering a 3 MHz video signal visible on the screen. Bragg reflection requires the acoustic wave front to be symmetrical with respect to the incident and diffracted light rays. Thus, as the Bragg angle is altered, the acoustic wavefront should rotate. This is accomplished by a phased array of transducer strips whose combined wavefront rotates as the frequency changes, providing excellent correction over a wide band (19 to 35 MHz in this experiment, corresponding to a ±30 percent change in Bragg angle). Broadband electrical and acoustical matching techniques make it possible to diffract all the incident light with about one watt of electrical input. A second acoustic diffraction cell intensity-modulates the light. In an early experiment, the laser beam was constricted to a very small diameter before entering the modulator cell; even so, the finite beam size caused a significant loss of high-frequency response. An improved version uses an old principle (Scophony, 1939): the laser beam traversing the cell is made wide enough to encompass several picture elements, all traveling across the beam at sound velocity; the horizontal deflection system nullifies the apparent motion of these elements making them stand still on the screen while a fan of light sweeps over them. With this modulation system, spatial coherence is needed only across the vertical dimension of the laser. The tolerance on the orientation of the acoustic wavefronts, the improvement brought about by the phased array, and the amount of power needed to drive the diffraction cell are calculated and the results confirmed by measurement. there is also good agreement between the exprimentally observed optical resolution (spatial frequency response) and the theoretical expectation based on the computed far-field intensity pattern."
"Methods of high-resolution, high-speed, optical beam deflection and scanning are reviewed with respect to resolution and scanning frequency capabilities. A general description is given of external deflector devices in the categories of variable reflectors, variable refractors, birefringent deflectors, and interference deflectors. The different techniques are then evaluated on the basis of their application to high-speed, high-resolution, precision scanning applications."
"The authors report on an optical modulator for pulse code modulation (PCM) transmission systems operating at a 224 Mc/s bit rate. The modulator uses the electrooptic effect in lithium tantalate (LiTaO2) and requires less than ten milliwatts drive power to a transistor pulse amplifier which supplies the drive voltage for the lithium tantalate. It acts as a gate for the regular train of optical pulses from a laser phase-locked at 224 Mc/s. The modulator is constructed using a single crystal of lithium tantalate in the form of a parallelepiped with dimensions 0.025 x 0.025 x 1.00 cm having an antireflection coating on one end and a dielectric reflecting coating on the other. This modulator exhibits a 15 dB optical power extinction ratio between the pulse and no pulse conditions at the output of the modulator. In the \"1\" state the modulator exhibits an insertion loss of 3.6 dB - including the contribution of all the associated optical components. "
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"Provides an overview of the technical articles and features presented in this issue."
"The purpose of this two-part investigation is to shed light on the physical effects responsible for the threshold behavior of FM receiving systems, especially those applying negative frequency feedback (FMFB systems), and to obtain quantitative relations for optimal design of such systems. First a new method is applied (in Part I) to the description of threshold effects in conventional FM receivers, giving access to the phenomena implied in a more lucid and mathematically simpler manner than obtained by previous theoretical investigations of other authors. By use of suitable approximations the output spectra and signal-to-noise ratios can be derived from the amplitude distribution of the noise envelope. The mthematical expressions obtained are relatively simple and well suited to numerical evaluation. Numerical calculations carried out by computer agree very well with the results available in the literature for some relatively restricted cases. The new method is then applied to the more involved problem of deriving the output noise spectra, at and below threshold, of an FMFB system, a problem that cannot be solved by conventional, mathematically rigid methods. The results obtained are shown (in Part II) to be in complete agreement with measurements carried out on different systems. Rules for optimal design of FMFB systems are given which permit the lowest threshold value to be determined without impairment to overall system performance."
"The use of thin-film resistors in monolithic integrated circuits is becoming more widespread as the performance requirements imposed upon circuit designers become more stringent. A cermet, consisting of a mixture of Cr and SiO, was selected as a suitable resistor mterial for this purpose because of its compatibility with semiconductor materials and processes, and because of its stability and reproducibility over a wide range of sheet resistance. Cermet films with sheet resistances of 300, 1000, and 2000 Ω/square were flash evaporated on silicon substrates, and resistors were fabricated. The techniques for depositing the cermet films and fabricating the resistors are discussed, and methods for subsequently adjusting the resistors to precise values are described. The properties of the completed resistors are presented in detail."
"In this paper exact formulas are found for the intermodulation generated in a semiconductor diode junction, and a method is developed to make the calculation of the intermodulation practicable. This method generates the intermodulation output spectrum by operating on the signal input spectrum with convolution. This method lends itself to tabular, graphical, or computer solutions, and the results can be easily interpreted. In the past the detailed calculation of intermodulation product amplitudes was a formidable task. With the techniques of this paper it should be possible to make these calculations routine. It will be feasible to determine RFI compatibility of new frequency allocations ahead of time, analyze existing RFI problems, and design receivers to work in severe interference environments. Equations are derived for the total intermodulation at a specific frequency, and for the spectrum of each order of intermodulation due to either CW or quasi-continuous input spectra. Examples are given of cross modulation, intermodulation, distortion, and third-order products."
"AEDNET is a system of digital computer programs for simulation of both linear and nonlinear electronic circuits. The system has two main features: 1) the ability to simulate the behavior of a wide class of nonlinear networks, and 2) the on-line use of a digital computer and its oscilloscope display unit for on-line interaction. AEDNET is written in the AED-0 language and it operates on the Project MAC time-sharing computer and the Electronic Systems Laboratory display unit. AEDNET simulates networks whose elements are nonlinear time-varying capacitors, resistors, inductors, and dependent and independent sources. The network is required to satisfy certain topological conditions, and the elements' characteristics are required to satisfy suitable Lipschitz conditions. Non-linear characteristics are represented in the computer either by a table or a subroutine. Elements with nonmonotonic characteristics are allowed, and the elements' characteristics are required to be continuous but not differentiable. Input to the program is given mainly by drawing the network diagram on the face of the oscilloscope, and assigning values to the network elements by typing on the console's teletype or by drawing the elements' characteristics. The output of the program gives the waveforms of the various network variables. Each variable can be displayed on the oscilloscope as a function of time or as a function of another network variable. After a network has been specified and the response calculated and displayed, the user can modify the network by changing both elements and topology, and then ask for a recalculation and redisplay. The object of this paper is to give a general description of AEDNET and a detailed consideration of the part of the system which sets the network equations and calculates the network response."
"An experimental survey of the photoconductive performance of various high-purity semiconductors mounted in a re-entrant microwave cavity shows a significant increase in SNR over conventional infrared detectors. Outstanding examples are provided by germanium for wavelengths less than 1.5 microns and information bandwidth to 30 MHz, indium arsenide to 3.4 microns and the same bandwidth, and indium antimonide to 5 microns and hundreds of MHz. Theoretical analysis of the photocurrent gain-bandwidth product shows it to be controlled by two important parameters: the ratio of electric field in the sample to the root of the microwave energy stored in the cavity, and the saturated drift velocity in the semiconductor. Measured performance is in quantitative agreement with the theoretical expression. The system requires only a few milliwatts of microwave power to drive the carriers to saturated velocity; the signal is extracted with a conventional microwave receiver. A retrieval efficiency beta is introduced to compare the performance of broad-band detectors, whose significance for solid-state detectors is analogous to that of the quantum efficiency alpha for a photomultiplier. Large beta means increased SNR; when beta reaches alpha, the device can count individual quanta. Measured values of beta for the devices studied reach 10 percent for germanium under certain conditions, a value approached only by the avalanche diode and more than two orders of magnitude higher than has been reported for other solid-state detectors. Comparison of the values of NEP and of (D*) with those of other infrared detectors shows a very large improvement in NEP and an important increase in (D*). The latter ranges from 3 × 1014for germanium to almost 1012(BLIP condition) for indium antimonide, and NEP ranges from 2 × 10-17for germanium to 2 × 10-14for indium antimonide. For both materials and also silicon, the gain-bandwidth product is about 1010; for indium arsenide the screening by free carriers reduces it to 109Hz. Noise studies reveal a large 1/f component. While its source has not been defined completely, the indication is that it can be significantly reduced by improvements in the microwave circuit. There seems to be no serious barrier to constructing photoconductive detectors which are shot-noise-limited and can count photons with high efficiency."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"Provides an overview of the technical articles and features presented in this issue."
"The problem of natural language information retrieval is difficult because of vocabulary size, semantics, and syntax. For some specialized disciplines, in particular tissue pathology, vocabularies are limited, semantic problems largely disappear, and syntactic structure can be replaced by a much simpler structure. Experience with the language of surgical pathology is given, also an outline of an automatic data processing system applied to the problem. A considerably expanded system, for dealing with larger data bases and larger varieties of queries, is being designed."
"Techniques in automated data-handling for medical research and patient-care purposes are being investigated using a conversational timeshared computer system. This paper covers the initial design considerations, implementation experience, and user reaction with the prototype set of on-line, multiple-access, general-purpose information storage and retrieval programs. This system is designed to pemit hospital personnel (without the need for special assistance or any direct intervention by trained computer programmers) to define and establish private data files, to enter or change moderately large volumes of English text or coded data, and to retrieve and manipulate selected output information. Hospital staffs, from remote terminals, have been using this system on an operational basis for more than a year. The development and implementation of the system is being carried out by Bolt Beranek and Newman Inc., and the Massachusetts General Hospital, under the support of the National Institutes of Health."
"An overview of Programmed Instruction (PI) is presented and its philosophy described. A brief delineation of courses in programmed format for the training of computer programmers and computer maintainers is given. The extent of programmed instruction activity for educating engineers in preparation for assignments is discussed. Computer-Assisted Instruction (CAI) is defined, and the bridge between CAI and PI is examined. Attention is given to current research in CAI and to the roles of the learner, teacher, instructional programmer, and computer programmer. A major conclusion reached is that there exists a growing need for the development of instructional programmers and for the production of more adequate computer software. Finally, attention is given to the development of software and hardware for CAI systems. Specifications for a typical CAI language and system are presented, and the authors reflect upon future CAI systems."
"Educational institutions are now beginning to develop projects and programs, and to find the people to carry out both administrative and instructional activities which involve computer technology. The examples in this paper cover a broad spectrum of activity in handling information which is important to educational decision makers--the teacher, the guidance counsellor, the principal, the administrator--relating to the allocation of resources, to the effectiveness of educational programming, and to learning more about the process of education itself. Included in the paper are a discussion of the Palo Alto School District Educational Data Services operation and an explanation of the developing regional data processing concept in California. Later, the notion of the Computer Utility Data Bank is explored in terms of the present and future state-of-the-art as they are related to educational applications. Finally, the relationship of information to the user outside of the formal instructional situation (in the school) is considered in the light of new styles of urban planning and the total communications requirements which may be suggested for the user's home. The focus here is on Columbia City, Md. This sampling, and it can only be that, should suggest that a major revolution is in the offing. It will change our notions of how people learn, of what information is required for the meaningful life and for the contributing and participating citizen. As with other disciplines, the dialog between the educator and the computer scientist has barely begun."
"Automatic information dissemination, search, and retrieval systems have become increasingly important in recent years, because of the urgency of the information problems themselves, and also because of a wide-spread feeling that computers can help in providing the much needed solutions. Over the past few years much has been learned about the design of automatic information systems and about the effectiveness of various types of analysis and search procedures. The present report reviews the principal techniques of interest and provides a forecast of the systems design and type of operations likely to be implemented in automatic information systems of the future. The information dissemination process is first examined in detail. The main functions and organization of information systems are then reviewed, and present capabilities are described using some of the currently existing operational systems as examples. Finally, future systems are considered, including in particular those based on automatic content analysis and on user-controlled searches. Specifically examined are author indexing and automatic analysis techniques, automatic typesetting and composition procedures, automatic and semiautomatic dictionary construction, and iterative search techniques."
"The photointerpretation process is one of the most difficult, but seemingly feasible, processes to automate. The non-numeric nature of the basic input medium, the great variation in imagery representing a single target class, the absence of satisfactory mathematical models for background noise (which are often patterns of poteutial, but not immediate interest) as well as target class patterns, and the intuitive logical requirement of higher order inferential decisions, make this problem one of the most interesting potential applications for computers today. This paper characterizes the photointerpretation process in terms of the input pattern structure and an overall decision tree for the process. A general model for pattern recognition is presented and related to the photointerpretation process. The use of the general-purpose computer as a research tool to permit study of automatic photointerpretation is illustrated by several specific examples. Nonlinear, two-dimensional filters which were implemented and evaluated entirely within an IBM-7044 are examples treated, while experiments on linear discrimination pattern recognizers for use in photointerpretation represent an opposite extreme. The results of an extensive experimental program to explore linear discriminator pattern recognizers show that automatic photointerpretation is more heavily dependent on preprocessors than on image classifiers. These results are discussed in terms of 1) their significance to ultimate solution of current problems, 2) the implication of the accomplishments to date, and 3) recommended directions for research in this area."
"This paper will review certain approaches to artifical intelligence research--mainly work done since 1960. An important area of research involves designing a machine that can adequately improve its own performance as well as solve other problems normally requiring human intelligence. Work in heuristic programming that seems most relevant to this goal will be discussed at length. Important subproblems are devising techniques for self-improvement, the general problem of deciding what task to best work on next in a network of tasks, and the general problem of how to mechanize learning or inductive inference. Some work in linguistics and pattern recognition is directly concerned with the induction problem. Another area of research that will be treated is simulation of organic evolution."
"This paper reviews the history, concepts, state-of-the-art, and future directions of the use of man-computer graphics for computer-aided design. Computer-aided design is based on a real-time graphical dialogue between the man and the computer in which the man draws on a display by means of a \"light pen\" or other input device. The computer \"understands\" the picture, makes calculations based on it, and presents the results pictorially to the user for his approval or revision. This man-computer graphical conversation has been made possible by recent advances in the speed of the digital computer, time-sharing programming, computer-driven display technology, and graphical input devices. The light pen is the most commonly used graphical input device, but keyboards, joysticks, flat matrix arrays, and other devices are also used. The programming state-of-the-art is a limiting factor in the implementatation of graphical computer-aided design; much work remains to be done in systems programming, efficient time sharing, list structure concepts, file organization, and memory protection. A number of experimental equipment configurations in use in various laboratories are cited and the hardware state-of-the-art is reviewed. Several experimental and production applications of computer-aided design evolved in a large aircraft company are described and illustrated, by display photographs. These applications relate to structural analysis, dynamics, information retrieval, accounting, and numerical control tape preparation. For the future, advances are required in improved man-computer communication, techniques to permit the operation of displays at great distances from the central computer, and methods of inputting existing drawings into the computer in a meaningful form."
"A review is presented of the use of digital computers in the design and application of new digital systems. The reasons for design automation are a possible reduction in costs, increased problem analysis capabilities, an increase in man's creative ability through man-machine interaction, increased speed of design, change control and documentation, and an increase in the efficiency of available manpower. The design problems and their solutions discussed can be divided into the following three areas. 1) Preconstruction Analysis: The system characteristics can be evaluated prior to construction by using a general purpose system simulator, such as the SIMSCRIPT computer of Markowitz, the GPSS routine of Gordon, or the SOL system of Knuth. 2) Design and Implementation: Routines have been developed for doing circuit design and logic generation and simplification. Logic can be automatically checked by using logic simulators. Finally, the physical implementation processes have been almost completely automated. Some of the problems in this area the assignment of logic to cards, the assignment of cards to backboards, the placement of cards on backboards, and the routing of conductors on backboards and cards. 3) Software: Today, the importance of design automation techniques in the development of software has become apparent. One important development in this area is in the automatic generation of test routines for the detection and diagnosis of component failures."
"The Boeing Hybrid Simulator is a general-purpose hybrid computer designed to provide a laboratory for the development of hybrid methods of solving a variety of aero-space problems as well as to support large-scale simulations. The first such simulation is a Flight Simulation Program which provides both a three-degrees-of-freedom missile performance analysis tool and a six-degrees-of-freedom missile subsystem design analysis tool. The 3D simulation was implemented by placing the integrations of the translational equations on the analog, utilizing the digital for function generation, some algebraic manipulations, and basic bookkeeping. The 6D was implemented by placing the integrations of the rotational equations on the analog and the integrations of the translational equations on the digital. Phase control was supplied on the analog in both cases. A hybrid oriented execute-time monitor system supported the simulations by 1) providing a flexibile man-machine relationship, 2) providing an automatic and manual control capability, and 3) reducing digital and analog setup time. It enabled the man at the console to bring system packages into computer memory either to temporarily displace the simulations or to tie in with them in such a way that activities closely related to the execution of the simulations occur at the end of frame calculations."
"One of the experimental stations for the Stanford two-mile Linear Accelerator is equipped with three large magnetic spectrometers for scattered electron analysis. To maximize data collection rates for these, an SDS 9300 computer with a sizable I/O multiplexing capacity has been programmed for fast real-time data acquisition and on-line analysis. The system is structured to permit the experimenter to specify his experimental configurations and program requirements in terms of strings of subprograms which can be triggered either by external interrupts, teletype commands, or programmed clocks. The subprograms are symbolically identified and may be either resident or loaded at execution time. A control language for teletype dialog permits flexibility in the description of the desired configuration and mid-experiment editing of the strings of analysis procedures. The paper describes the data-gathering configuration, the program structure, and the control language of the system."
"The use of spacecraft as vehicles for conducting investigations of the scientific properties of space has rapidly evolved into a complex of interconnected sensors and processors, both on the ground and aloft, termed an information system. Requirements of rapid response to stimuli, continuity of control for protracted periods (perhaps as great as several years), and capability of handling large quantities of data require the use of automatic control. The unknown factors and changing conditions in space require satellite instrumentation with a high degree of adaptability. This adaptability can be obtained by making the data processing and control general purpose as far as possible. An instrumentation satellite with a central computer time-shared by the various sensors and the control system, is a new type of system for this application. In this paper the factors which influence the system design are described: 1) the effect of the space environment on the computer 2) the effect of the mission (space telemetry) on the system design 3) the effect of on-board data processing on the system design 4) a comparison between general-purpose and special-purpose on-board system designs. The paper includes a description of a typical telemetry data process, and the design of a spaceborne, general-purpose micro-programmed computer is described in some detail. Quantitative comparisons are made between the alternatives. There is also a discussion of the effects of the space environment on the electronics of the processor and of means of assuring reliable operation."
"The 120-foot diameter Haystack antenna operates at X-band and is used for satellite communications, radio astronomy, and radar astronomy. Haystack is used to study stars, planets, the sun, the moon, and earth satellites. In order to point the antenna to within 1/10 beamwidth (22 seconds of arc) and to provide flexible control and data processing for diverse users, a digital computer is tightly integrated into the control system. The parameters of an experiment and computer control are arranged via simple operator discourse through a keyboard/printer. The computer system can simultaneously direct the antenna, process receiver signal data, drive convenient operator displays, and permit operator discourse. Thus, processed signal data can be observed in real time, and experiment modifications rapidly implemented. The computer control system is in full operation."
"Among the many spectacular aspects of the growth of the digital computer field has been its application to industrial process control. From very modest beginnings in 1959 and 1960, the field has now progressed until it is an indispensable part of many new industrial plants, particularly in the steel industry, petrochemical plant operations, refineries, and several others. Due to small memory sizes, relatively slow machine speeds, and poor reliability, early applications were in a data-logging or operator's guide configuration. Increased knowledge of process requirements led to the closed loop supervisory or steady-state, economic optimization phase of computer control. However, because of limitations in plant excursion ranges, results here were small, although positive. Dynamic control by digital computer has come only recently with direct digital control. This was made possible by the emergence of a third-generation group of small, fast, highly-reliable, and relatively inexpensive machines. These machines have shown themselves to be economically attractive media for plant control, with a resulting major increase in applications in the digital computer control field. Overall plant or hierarchy control, where several levels of computers operate together to control a large plant complex or a whole company, is now under active study by many groups and preliminary installations of this type are already on order or being installed. This area promises to grow rapidly in the next few years, along with the other phases of computer control. This paper reviews the areas of digital plant control, pointing out areas of difficulty and of successes in each. It lists some requirements for future progress in terms of both equipment and software requirements. It also attempts to predict some probable future areas and rates of development."
"This article reviews selected significant developments in the rise of software to an equal partner to computer hardware. Topics covered include transition problems, hardware-software interdependency, control programs, programming languages and their processors and certain data-file management aspects. The period October 1960 to April 1966 is covered."
"The bibliography includes articles dealing with the simultaneous independent shared use of computers. Real time, on-line, memory or facility allocation, multi-programming, and multi-processing terminology is evolved. Though a number of computer applications are reported, the requirements of special or dedicated time-sharing systems seem to be within the capability of most of the general-purpose time-sharing systems which are beginning to emerge. The systems are being designed for 100 percent availability, memory and facility allocation among users, a common file or data base, and direct access by the users via consoles (for example, typewriter, display, etc.)."
"This paper describes the design of the computer seen by a machine-language programmer in a time-sharing system developed at the University of California at Berkeley. Some of the instructions in this machine are executed by the hardware, and some are implemented by software. The user, however, thinks of them all as part of his machine, a machine having extensive and unusual capabilities, many of which might be part of the hard-ware of a (considerably more expensive) computer. Among the important features of the machine are the arithmetic and string manipulation instructions, the very general memory allocation and configuration mechanism, and the multiple processes which can be created by the program. Facilities are provided for communication among these processes and for the control of exceptional conditions. The input-output system is capable of handling all of the peripheral equipment in a uniform and convenient manner through files having symbolic names. Programs can access files belonging to a number of people, but each person can protect his own files from unauthorized access by others. Some mention is made at various points of the techniques of implementation, but the main emphasis is on the appearance of the user's machine."
"The hardware scheme designed to implement an experimental IBM System/360, Model 40 time-sharing system will be discussed. The concept of a virtual system will be introduced which allows up to fifteen simultaneous users on the system, each user assuming he has a complete hardware-software of his own. The problem of building and interfacing a 64- word associative memory mapping device into an existing hardware system will be reviewed."
"A problem-oriented language is discussed which is a useful tool for producing tabular reports. A program in the language is processed by the Tablemaker 2 system which is a compiler with compile-and-go options utilizing a top-down syntactic analyzer. The Tablemaker 2 language is concise and well-defined. One may describe data files with multiple-record structures, appropriately recode desired variables, control the production of sequences of files of n-dimensional arrays of weighted or unweighted counts, and perform arithmetic operations on each array and/or array sequence. Output processing to obtain printed results is specified in a particularly flexible and powerful manner within the Tablemaker 2 language. The user is allowed general data mapping within a defined overlay hierarchy to positions in variably formatted pages. Flexible format and label definition statements are provided, and external files including files of labels may be used. The use of the Tablemaker 2 language offers a simple and efficient approach to a type of problem normally handled by specialized time-consuming programming."
"The paper reports on augmenting human problem solving capability in the day-to-day work in management or science through provision of information in a large integrated file with split second response to demands for data or program execution. A number of such systems have been developed. However, the description is in terms of the latest system developed at the University of Pennsylvania. In the first part, the paper deals with tbe Multilist technique for mass storage embedded in a system for remote consoles. Console services, a high level query language and interpreter for the query language, and a highly structured file organization are among the special subsystems described. The second part is devoted to illustrations of usages describing a number of the applications which can be concurrently serviced within the system. These include: an automatic library catalog, to illustrate storage and retrieval functions, and inventory management, to illustrate large scale management functions."
"This paper discusses techniques employed in the discrete modeling of physical systems for digital simulation and control applications. Traditional numerical integration techniques provide accurate means of model making but prove too slow for real-time simulation of complex systems or systems with fast response. For rapid digital simulation, a simplified discrete approximation is sought for the linear integro-differential operators of a continuous system. This discrete operator, a digitized transfer function, yields difference equations hopefully permitting real-time approximation of continuous system performance on a digital computer. Determination of the discrete operator is the essential goal of each of the simulation schemes described herein, though differing initial assumptions and approximations alter the resulting forms. After a brief review of these approaches to simulation, techniques for improved approximations for linear system transforms and for discrete parameter optimization and identification are developed. The optimum discrete transfer function which minimizes the sum of error squared between a linear continuous system output and a linear discrete system output is obtained. By adjusting gain parameters in the discrete transfer function, the simulation result is shown to be improved for various inputs and system nonlinearities. Application of standard variational methods to optimize the desired parameters leads to a two-point nonlinear boundary-value problem which is resolved via the techniques of quasilinearization and differential approximation. The procedure for application of various simulation methods is summarized, and the effectiveness of the methods is shown by the simulation of a second-order, nonlinear system for various inputs and sample intervals."
"A method of assigning external interrupts to processors in a multiprocessor system is described. Features of a multilevel priority interrupt system are incorporated into a hardware component called the Interrupt Directory. The directory selects the most appropriate processor for servicing the interruption at the time the event occurs. The \"appropriateness\" for interruption is based on the priority level of a processor's current task, thus providing dynamic priority allocation of tasks. Queueing of interrupts is also provided. The arrangement described in this paper simplifies and increases the effectiveness of executive control programs. Implications of the Interrupt Directory on reliability and \"fail-soft\" operation are also discussed."
"A broad, panoramic view of the history, current state-of-the-art, and predicted developments in the central processor, main memory, and peripheral areas of information processing systems is presented. The historic development is discussed by machine generations, and within each generation, the then current state-of-the-art of the three pertinent areas. Emphasis is placed upon the third or current generation, with future trends and developments receiving the second emphasis. The extrapolation technique employed in generating the data for the 1970 projections is described."
"Solid-state circuits and the integrated circuits succeeding them are improving analog-computing-element reliability by an order of magnitude, speed by two orders of magnitude, and still reducing system cost. The effects of integrated-circuit technology on the price, reliability, and sophistication of digital computers are even more pronounced, and the resulting system-design tradeoffs shape the future course of hybrid-computer techniques. This review article discusses the design of fast analog/hybrid computer systems, including recent developments in integrated operational amplifiers, electronic mode-control switches, digital attenuators, and new packaging techniques."
"Since 1960, computer circuits have evolved from discrete components to hybrid or integrated circuits, allowing an order of magnitude improvement in cost and reliability. Continuation of these trends points to ward the availability of large-scale integration, with 100 or more circuits per chip, by 1970. Timely achievement of this potential improvement depends on increased interaction between system and device designers and reduction of costs associated with engineering changes and field stocking. The dominant role of the bipolar device is presently being challenged by the field effect device. Optical and bulk effect devices may have future application in the digital area."
"The application of electromechanical mass storage devices to computers is rapidly increasing in importance. Mass storage units are being assigned key general systems functions and are basic to many developing applications such as time sharing, communication, and on-line processing. In this paper, the characteristics of typically available hardware in the drum, disk-file, and tape-strip categories are discussed. Next, the most important applications of mass storage devices are reviewed. The special considerations in the design of computer systems which use mass storage are outlined. Commonly used and certain important proposed techniques of file organization and processing are then described. The paper concludes with a discussion of the technology used, some aspects of control unit design, and future possibilities in both hardware and software. Major challenges to designers of future hardware are identified as reduction of the cost per bit of removable media, economical devices with storage capacities larger than 109bits, and a solution to the dilemma of increasing access time with increasing storage capacity."
"Displays are playing an increasingly important role in providing man-machine interaction in computer systems. Small-screen displays, such as cathode-ray tubes, coupled with alphanumeric or graphic input devices, provide a console that permits close on-line interaction between the user and the computer and data base. Large-screen displays permit groups of users to interact both with one another and with the information processing system. This paper discusses several of the more important applications of computer generated displays, display systems design and characteristics, and display technologies which are the primary candidates for implementing the visual transducer portion of future display systems. Several problem areas are identified."
"The U. S. Naval Research Laboratory has been engaged for the past four years in the application of a polymorphic multiprocessor to command and control problems. The system achieved the high reliability with minimal redundancy that motivated its development. Linkage at run time of independently compiled and allocated elements was achieved primarily through the use of indirect addressing. A simple software technique was used for dynamic memory allocation. Dynamic reallocation proved unnecessary when memory fracturing or checkerboarding was found to be minor, but would have been useful in allowing roll-out in case of transitory memory overloads. The memory protection scheme implemented in the hard-ware was ineffective and the system must be treated as a monoprogrammed single processor machine during program debugging."
"After an introduction which discusses the significance of a trend to the design of parallel processing systems, the paper describes some of the results obtained to date in a project which aims to develop and evaluate a unified hardware-software parallel processing computing system and the techniques for its use."
"Very high-speed computers may be classified as follows: 1) Single Instruction Stream-Single Data Stream (SISD) 2) Single Instruction Stream-Multiple Data Stream (SIMD) 3) Multiple Instruction Stream-Single Data Stream (MISD) 4) Multiple Instruction Stream-Multiple Data Stream (MIMD). \"Stream,\" as used here, refers to the sequence of data or instructions as seen by the machine during the execution of a program. The constituents of a system: storage, execution, and instruction handling (branching) are discussed with regard to recent developments and/or systems limitations. The constituents are discussed in terms of concurrent SISD systems (CDC 6600 series and, in particular, IBM Model 90 series), since multiple stream organizations usually do not require any more elaborate components. Representative organizations are selected from each class and the arrangement of the constituents is shown."
"The continuing reduction of the size and cost of integrated circuit logic elements encourages the utilization of more complex logic nets in digital computers. In arithmetic processors, the application of integrated circuits will permit the replacement of sequential logic nets by their combinational equivalents, and the replacement of programmed subroutines by arithmetic fraction generators. At the present time, such function generators are used in the Variable Structure Computer at the University of California, Los Angeles. The potentially low cost of logic elements can be realized if large numbers of elements are contained in one package with a limited number of connections to the outside, and if very few types of packages are used in large quantities. Present-day arithmetic processors cannot be readily subdivided into uniform packages because of irregularities in their internal structure. The paper describes the advantages gained by the application of signed-digit number systems in the design of such packages, called arithmetic microsystems. Three types of combinational microsystems are described and their internal design is illustrated by examples for a radix 16 system. The microsystems can accept conventional binary or signed-digit operands. Combinational reconversion of results to the binary system is also discussed. The application of microsystems is illustrated by radix 16 combinational arrays for the operations of multiplication and division."
"Residue arithmetic offers a new approach to the development of general-purpose digital computers which detect and correct their own arithmetic and data-transmission errors. This approach is based on special properties inherent in a suitably chosen redundant residue number system (RRNS). In this paper, RRNS algorithms are described which can detect any number of residues in error, and can detect and correct one residue in error, in a data word suitable for scientific or control computation. Moreover, it is shown that there are RRNS algorithms available to perform all arithmetic operations needed in ordinary general-purpose computation. To this end, a new class of residue arithmetic techniques based on the properties of \"macro-coefficients\" is introduced, which permits all required fractional operations to be carried out and leads to a convenient form of the error-detection-and-correction procedures. The implications of these developments for ultra-reliable computer design are discussed, and the RRNS approach to computer ultrareliability is compared with several others which have been suggested; binary information with a residue check digit (BRCD), linear codes, and logic-circuit-level redundancy techniques such as majority voting."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"A theory of negative-conductance amplification and of Gunn-effect oscillation in good agreement with experimental observations is developed for \"two-valley\" semiconductors such as GaAs and InP. The theory is based upon a conduction-band model in which the relative populations of two valleys of vastly different mobility are determined by the average electron temperature, the latter being described by energy transport equations. Numerical computer solutions of the dynamic equations identify different modes of sample behavior and give a clear indication of the microscopic physical processes relevant to each."
"Use of the drifted Maxwellian distribution is shown to be unjustified for GaAs samples in which the Gunn effect is usually observed, because the carrier concentration is much too low for electron-electron collisions to predominate. It is pointed out that solution of the Boltzmann equation is considerably simpler at fields high enough so that the average electron energy exceeds several times the optical phonon energy. The simplification occurs because the polar optical scattering may then be considered elastic. Relaxation times and rates of energy loss in acoustic, optical, and intervalley scattering are examined in order to determine which scattering processes must be included in the Boltzmann equation. It is found that intervalley scattering is very likely to be more important than polar optical scattering for high-energy electrons in either the central or the outer valleys. Approximate solutions of the Boltzmann equation for electrons in the lower valley are given for a wide range of fields. The number of electrons per unit energy range, calculated from the solution of the Boltzmann equation, is given for electrons in both valleys for a field of 2.4 × 103volts/cm, where the approximation mentioned should be reasonably good."
"On a semiphenomenological level, the explanation of the Gunn effect is one in terms of a time-independent, negative differential, bulk conductivity. This mechanism is based on the conduction-band structure of GaAs, which provides for two kinds of electrons, light and heavy ones. Light electrons dominate at low fields, heavy ones at high fields. Since the mobility of the heavy electrons is much lower than that of the light ones, there is a range of current decrease with increasing field, i.e., a negative conductivity. This negative conductivity leads to an electrical breakup of the crystal into alternating traveling domains of high and low fields, accompanied by alternating current. In a \"mathematically perfect\" crystal this instability would take the form of traveling negatively charged electron accumulation layers, separating the domains of high and low fields. In real crystals the inevitable spatial fluctuations in the impurity distribution lead to the experimentally observed dipole mode, wherein both negatively charged electron accumulation layers and positively charged electron depletion layers occur."
"Expressions describing the growth and propagation of infinitesimal space-charge waves in the presence of a differential negative resistance are derived, and conditions for the inhibition of dipole waves and domains inn-GaAs of resistivity greater than 10Ω-cm at 300°K are obtained. Thermoelectric effects are estimated and found to be small for carrier densities much less than 1015cm-3. Taking the negative differential resistivity to be larger than the ohmic resistivity by a factor of 102leads to 1) condition for inhibition of dipole waves:nl^{2} \\lsim 10^{9}cm-12) condition for inhibition of stable domains:nl \\lsim 10^{12}cm-2whenn= electron density andl= specimen length. The relevance of these results to explaining the phenomena observed in amplifying crystals is pointed out. It is suggested that the condition for amplification is(\\frac{10^{9}}{n})^{1/2} \\lsim l \\lsim \\frac{10^{12}}{n}."
"A model wherein the density of free carriers in the conduction band of a semiconductor is dependent on the electric field and decreases at high fields is considered. The growth and phase velocity of an RF wave of small amplitude which propagates through the medium are evaluated. From these properties the threshold electric field and the frequency tuning characteristics vs. electric field for an oscillating sample are calculated. In high-resistivity samples are predicted 1) the threshold field to increase with increasing resistivity, and 2) the oscillating frequency to decrease when the field is increased above threshold. Experimental data which are consistent with both of these predictions are presented."
"The theory of the coherent excitation of optical phonons in polar semiconductors is developed by use of the Boltzmann equations in which the collective behavior of carriers is taken into account. The linearized theory gives the critical condition for which the coherent emission of optical phonons exceeds the total damping of the system. Current and phonon wave-amplitude saturations due to non-linear effects are discussed by applying a quasi-linear theory. In a sample of finite size, phonon waves reflected at the boundary give rise to a further decrease of current by the acoustoelectric effect, resulting in a negative resistance. Such a negative resistance generates a current instability having its frequency determined by the transit time across the sample. Finally, the critical conditions of phonon wave growth are examined for GaAs and InAs."
"An analysis is made of several solid-state amplifiers using streaming carriers, and the role played by collisions is discussed. In the case of an electron stream interacting with a TM wave there are found to be no \"collision-induced\" instabilities, in contrast to various statements in the literature; in the case of TEM waves collisions can induce instabilities under proper conditions. For TM-waves, where there is a first-order longitudinal RF electric field component interacting with the drifting carriers, collisions tend only to decrease the amplification, the instability being due to interaction between the positive-energy-carrying \"circuit\" wave and the negative-energy-carrying slow-space-charge wave supported by the streaming carriers. Similarly, the resistive-wall amplifier (also a TM case) is, interestingly, found to be simply a two-stream amplifier in which collisions become dominant in one of the streams. On the other hand, in the interaction with linearly polarized TEM waves, where there is no first-order RF electric field along the direction of drift, collisions can produce a proper phase for the second-order RF electric field (due to\\tilde{V}_{trans}×\\tilde_{B}_{trans}so that this field component interacting with the carriers can lead to amplification."
"The threshold field for Gunn Oscillations depends on the separation in energy of high- and low-mobility conduction-band minima. In GaAs this separation can be reduced by hydrostatic pressure, by uniaxial stress, or by the addition of phosphorus to form GaAsxP1-x. Experiments on the effect of uniaxial stress are described, and the results are compared with those previously reported for the other two methods of varying the energy separation. Under uniaxial stress the threshold field decreases rapidly with stress along a"
"Some experimentally observed characteristics of the high-field domain in long samples (0.1 to 0.25 cm) of GaAs are described. Accurate determinations of domain velocity and amplitude in a number of devices have been made using a surface potential probe. Although the probe resolution was insufficient to observe the domain widening as it supports more voltage, as is predicted by the Ridley model, it has been shown that domain fields in excess of 75 kV/cm exist in long samples. In presenting the results it has been convenient to recognise two classes of behaviour: (1) Samples showing only small departures from the Ridley model and good waveform coherence; these have been termed 'well behaved;' and (2) samples in which additional perturbing processes modify the Gunn effect. Of the two such processes studied, namely, that giving rise to the emission of recombination radiation from the moving domain, and, secondly, electron traping within the domain, the former is by far the most important since, depending on sample length and carrier concentration, it will always occur at sufficiently high applied fields. From considerations of the space-charge distribution necessary to support the high domain fields a model has been developed, the chief feature of which is a triangular domain field distribution. The peak value of the domain field is dependent on the domain voltage drop and the material carrier concentration. The model explains most of the experimental observations and, in particulars the factors which determine whether a sample is well behaved or emits recombination radiation. In addition, the model gives a semiquantitative picture of the primary current-field characteristics of the transferred electron mechanism."
"The main features of the Gunn effect can be accounted for by the transferred electron model of Ridley and Watkins, which predicts a bulk differential negative resistance and subsequent domain formation if electrons can be transferred sufficiently rapidly from the lowest conduction-band minimum to lower-mobility subsidiary minima. Experimental results forn-GaAs in verification of such a bulk negative resistance are presented. In the longer samples the current-time waveform consists of sharp spikes separated by flat valleys, as expected from the motion of domains. The voltage across the domains is found to scale with sample length as predicted; the value of the electric field inside the domain is estimated to be ≥60 000 V/cm, while the field outside is about 1500 V/cm. Gunn effect oscillations have also been observed inn-CdTe, but not inn-InSb orn-InAs. The absence of an instability in InSb and InAs is consistent with the transferred electron model, since the subsidiary minima in these materials are believed to be too high in energy to be populated before carrier multiplication occurs. Finally, it will be shown that unless the separation of the conduction-band minima is very small, the critical electric field at which the Gunn effect occurs is reasonably well predicted by the one-band polar optical mode runaway field."
"It has been found that Gunn-effect oscillations in high-resistivity GaAs cease when the product of the conduction electron density and the sample length drops below 1011cm-2as predicted by theory. The samples investigated exhibited impact ionization of a deep donor level lying 0.41 eV below the conduction band edge when subjected to an applied electric field equal to the Gunn-effect threshold field. Some observations concerning space-charge limited injection of electrons and concerning electrical breakdown in high-resistivity GaAs are also reported."
"CW microwave oscillations were generated at room temperature by usingn-GaAs with a carrier concentration 1013- 1014per cc. Fundamental frequencies between 1 - 10 kMc were excited, and harmonic signals up to 21 kMc were detected. The maximum power output and efficiency on CW basis were 56 mW and 5.2 percent, respectively, at 2 - 3 kMc. A study was made of harmonic content, linewidth, circuit and electronic tunability, as well as the effects of sample thickness, bias voltage, and temperature, on the observed signal frequency. For sample length × carrier concentration products between 2×1010- 2 × 1012cm-2there was a wide diversity in behavior observed in different samples. This was tentatively attributed to the possibility of exciting not only traveling dipole domains but also growing space-charge waves. These growing space-charge waves were found to exist in samples where the condition nl < 2 × 1012cm-2was satisfied, and are also suspected of being responsible for the observed microwave amplification in bulk GaAs. Three different contacts were used successfully: nickeltin, indium-nickel, and indium-gold. These contacts, and the general semiconductor preparation techniques, will be described in detail."
"The Gunn effect appears to be the first semiconductor phenomenon capable of generating high peak power at microwave frequencies. This paper describes some preliminary experimental work in which gallium arsenide oscillators were made and operated in the range from 725 to 2000 Mc/s. Two device fabricating techniques and two circuit configurations have been found useful. Individual devices can be made to tune over a 25 percent range with a single capacitor adjustment. Voltage tuning of a few percent is generally observed. The highest peak power observed so far is 205 watts at 1540 Mc/s, obtained from two GaAs wafers operating in parallel. A large number of single devices have worked at power levels between 40 and 100 watts, and efficiencies from 3 to 9 percent. The phenomenon shows considerable promise for moderate power pulsed microwave oscillators. Predictable devices and useful design techniques will be delayed until the reproducibility and temperature variations of the raw material are brought under control."
"Continuous linear microwave amplification has been obtained usingn-type GaAs at room temperature. Amplification of signals in the 2 to 10 Gc/s range occurred when a dc field applied across semiconductor wafers mounted in a conventional reflection type amplifier circuit exceeded about 3100 volts/cm. Ohmic contacts were applied to wafers 125 µ square and 40 to 120 µ thick. The resistivity varied between 10 and 120 ohm-era. Then \\cdot Lproduct in amplifying samples did not exceed 5.1011cm-2. The conductance measured in the 1 to 10 Gc/s region was found in some samples to be negative over a frequency range of one octave. Other samples exhibited negative conductance (i.e., gain) only over a few hundred megacycles. Each sample showed a peak gain accompanied by a range of absorption at the high-frequency end of the negative conductance region. The differential conductance at dc was positive. An amplifier noise figure of 23 dB was measured using 120 ohm-era GaAs at 10 dB gain and 1 dB of gain compression occurred when the output power level reached -6 dBm."
"Microwave oscillations of the type reported by Gunn have been observed in samples prepared from epitaxial layers of gallium arsenide. Descriptions of sample preparation and measuring techniques are included. The frequency of oscillation ranged from 7 to 14 GHz. The samples, which were prepared from 16.5 to 25µ thick layers, had cross sections that were 0.25 mm and 0.5 mm square. Peak output power ranged from 50 to 200 mW at the higher frequencies to 0.5 to 1.5 W at the lower frequencies. Typical efficiencies ranged from 4 percent to 6 percent."
"A thin wafer of P-InSb exhibits a current-controlled negative resistance between nonsymmetrical ohmic contacts on opposite sides of the wafer. The small contact on one side of the wafer is made positive relative to the large contact on the other side. Most effective samples had small contact diameters one to four times the slab thickness. The negative resistance was present up to a temperature of 210°K for material having 2.5 × 1014/cm3acceptor concentration at 77°K. A magnetic field perpendicular to the current flow direction reduced the value of the maximum negative resistance and extended the range of bias current yielding negative resistance. Samples under 0.005 inch thick yielded negative resistance when operated continuously, for the doping of 2.5 × 1014/cm3, but thicker samples yielded negative resistance only in lower duty cycle operation. Microwave radiation lines presumably at harmonics of oscillation in the bias circuit were measured. Finally, a proposed mechanism, dependent on impact ionization, is used to predict operation to a transit-time limited frequency of, say, 8000 Mc/s for a sample whose thickness is 0.0025 inch."
"The oscillatory properties of indium antimonide subjected to comparatively high applied parallel electric and magnetic fields at 77°K have been studied. In particular, the low-frequency oscillations in the current have been characterized by an empirical equivalent circuit. This circuit has been used to help clarify the relationship between these current oscillations and the microwave emission which is also observed under the same experimental conditions. This work suggests that there are at least two separate mechanisms of microwave emission, one that is associated with and requires low-frequency oscillations in the sample current, and one which is not associated with and is independent of low-frequency oscillations in the sample current."
"The frequency spectrum of the microwave radiation emitted from InSb in the presence of applied electric and magnetic fields at 77°K was observed using a spectrum analyzer. In the frequency region from 7 to 26 Gc/s the spectrum showed oscillatory behavior with a period of 2.2 Gc/s, with the average value decreasing with increasing frequency. Such a structure could be due to a series of harmonics of a fundamental mode with frequency of 2.2 Gc/s. The frequencies of the peaks did not shift on changing the magnetic field and current. The spectrum near the frequency of 2.2 Gc/s was measured in detail in a coaxial-type cavity. The intensity of the radiation in this frequency region was much higher than that in the higher frequency region. The spectrum did not show clearly the expected peak at 2.2 Gc/s, but showed a further oscillatory behavior with a period of about 150 Mc/s. The physical mechanism which gives such a structure to the spectrum is not yet understood. It was also observed that the threshold conditions for the observation of radiation depended on the sample geometry, the thresholds being lower for thin samples, with the magnetic field perpendicular to both the current and the thin direction."
"A one-dimensional, small-signal analysis of the space-charge region of a p-n junction in which avalanche occurs uniformly is presented. The impedance is found to have a negative real part. The impedance is Well represented by a parallel connection of the depletion layer capacitance, an inductance, and a negative resistance. The admittance of the latter two is proportional to the bias current. The magnitude of the negativeQis below ten. The negative resistance is due to an intrinsic instability in the avalanching electron-hole plasma. A discussion of the instability and a traveling-wave tube-like amplification is given."
"The small-signal impedance of the space-charge region of p-n junctions under avalanche breakdown conditions is calculated using reasonably realistic dependences of electron and hole ionization rates and drift velocities upon electric field. Two structures are analyzed: one is p+νn+structure which has a fairly uniform distribution of avalanche multiplication, and the other is a singly diffused junction which is a hybrid of an abrupt and a linear graded junction. Both structures show negative resistance when the transit time of carriers becomes appreciable. A computer program was evolved which requires, as input, the impurity profile and field dependences of ionization rates and drift velocities. The program first calculates the dc field and electron and hole currents and then solves the ac small-signal problem. Both the ac small-signal impedance and theQof the diode are calculated."
"According to Read, n++-P+-i-P++diodes should oscillate at special high frequencies determined by carrier transit time in the space-charge layer. Oscillations not affected by transit time were observed with p++-n+- n-n++silicon diodes. The corresponding current-voltage characteristic revealed a negative resistance setting in at a critical current. Theoretical considerations show that one-sided avalanche injection in n++-p+-p++structures may lead to a slight negative resistance for carrier concentrations smaller than the impurity concentration and for certain widths of the depletion layer. This type of negative resistance disappears in n++-p+-i-P++structures, but with increasing injection multiplication is induced in the intrinsic layer. Therefore the carrier space-charge is reduced and a negative resistance appears at a critical current density. The onset of this second injection is an upper current limit of the Read transit-time mode. The frequency range of oscillations due to avalanche space-charge feedback generally will not be separated from the range of transit-time oscillations. Thus, it must be judged carefully which mechanism is responsible for observed high-frequency oscillations. On the other hand, space-charge feedback may give additional stability to the transit-time mode."
"An analysis is presented for the noise current spectrum of an avalanche diode under assumed conditions of ideal uniform avalanche behavior in a zone which is thin compared with the total high-field depletion zone. The result is applied to the Read diode amplifier. For a typical set of operating parameters, the theory predicts a noise figure on the order of 40 dB. Depending upon particular device parameters, lower noise figures may be possible."
"A general expression is derived from which the spectral density of the noise generated in a uniformly multiplying p-n junction can be calculated for any distribution of injected carriers. The analysis is limited to the white noise part of the noise spectrum only, and to diodes having large potential drops across the multiplying region of the depletion layer. It is shown for the special case in which\\beta = k\\alpha, wherekis a constant and α and β are the ionization coefficients of electrons and holes, respectively, that the noise spectral density is given by2eI_{in}M^{3}[1 + (\\frac{1 - k}{k})(\\frac{M - 1}{M})^{2}]where M is the current multiplication factor and Iinthe injected current, if the only carriers injected into the depletion layer are holes, and by2eI_{in}M^{3}[1 - (1 - k)(\\frac{M - 1}{M})^{2}]if the only injected carriers are electrons. An expression is also derived for the noise power which will be delivered to an external load for the limitM \\rightarrow \\infin."
"Read's theory of the negative-resistance avalanche diode has been examined in detail for the small-signal case. The space-charge wave approach has been used in the analysis leading directly to a simple equivalent circuit and a general expression for the small-signal impedance which includes the significant design and operating parameters. The theory indicates that strong tuning effects will occur through variation of the dc avalanche current. This has been verified experimentally."
"A brief resume of a research effort which was intended to investigate the basic physical phenomena underlying Read's proposal for an avalanching transit-time oscillator is presented. The understanding of the time dependence of the multiplication and the refinement in the silicon technology needed to establish the uniform multiplication for the Read diode prototype are outlined. Multiplication measurements on a uniform junction and the equipment used to make them are presented. Results indicate a uniformity in hole multiplication of better than a factor of 2 at an averageM_{p} = 4000implying an electron multiplication of an order of magnitude more. An expression for the admittance andQfactor for the Read structure for frequencies where the avalanche is not completely inductive and for arbitrary transit angle is included. The equation for the dc current of an avalanching junction correct to the second order in the perturbation of the electric field is presented to explain an anomalous rectification observed in Read structures."
"Silicon diode microwave oscillators and amplifiers employing two different diode structures are reported. These diodes employ the avalanche transit-time properties originally discussed by Read. A simple p-n junction has produced 13 mW of CW power at 10.5 Gc/s with 0.5 percent efficiency as an oscillator. A similar diode, when incorporated into a circulator coupled amplifier circuit, produced 30 Mc/s bandwidth with 20 dB of gain. Noise figures in the 50 to 60 dB range were obtained in preliminary measurements. Experimental results with these diodes are shown to be in qualitative agreement with the small-signal theory of Misawa. A double diffused \"hyperabrupt\" diode has also been fabricated as prescribed by Read. These diodes have produced 19 mW of CW power at 5 Gc/s with 1.4 percent efficiency and 13 mW with 1.5 percent efficiency."
"Oscillations in the microwave region have been obtained from reverse biased GaAs diodes. Both diffusedp-njunctions and surface barrier structures have been employed with breakdown voltages ranging roughly from 20 to 70 volts. Typically, the current densities associated with the oscillating condition are in the range 103to 104amperes/cm2All observations have been made at room temperature on a pulse basis (one percent to twenty percent duty cycle) with the exception of two units which were operated CW. The oscillations are thought to be of the avalanche transit-time type, with the drift space being the space-charge region itself. On this basis, for the device geometries employed to date, the fundamental frequencies of oscillation are expected to lie primarily between 30 and 100 GHz, somewhat beyond the range conveniently accessible to the detection equipment employed. The observed oscillations have been mainly in the region of 8 to 30 GHz and are thought to be, for the most part, parametric lower sidebands, excited by the (unobserved) fundamental. A pulse output of 40 mW at 27 GHz has been measured, corresponding to an efficiency of 2 percent."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"The results of a detailed study of the charge motion and instability in thermally grown, undoped silicon dioxide films at high electric fields and elevated temperatures are presented. The transient behavior of the charge motion in the oxide is analyzed and a model proposed to explain the observations. It is shown that the instability consists of the motion of positively charged ions and that interface trapping effects play a significant role in determining the transient behavior. Detailed consideration is given to the nature of these trapping effects, and it is concluded that caution must be exercised in ascribing the activation energy measured for the instability to that for the true mobility of these ions in a \"bulk\" oxide. The effects of various ambient treatments on the instability are discussed, and conclusions are drawn concerning the physical and chemical nature of the observed instability."
"The number of surface states present at an oxidized silicon surface is generally much larger when oxidation or further heat treatment has been carried out in a dry than in a wet environment. Especially at low temperatures (400-600°C) water very much tends to cause their disappearance. As hydrogen acts in a similar way, the effect seems to be due to a reaction of centers (probably unsaturated silicon bonds) with hydrogen, so that they are no longer able to capture holes or electrons. The hydrogen may also be evolved during the reaction of an Al-electrode on top of the oxide with hydroxyl or water. Irradiation of oxidized silicon by X-rays or ultraviolet light can cause charge redistributions, which may be accompanied by the formation of new centers. The latter effect is most pronounced when hydroxyl groups can be supposed to occur in the oxide. In these cases the irradiation may cause a disappearance of n-type inversion on p-type silicon, especially when X-ray irradiation is followed by ultraviolet (u. v.) illumination. Irradiation experiments have been used to detect differences in Si-SiO2systems in cases where direct electrical measurements failed."
"Thermal oxidation of silicon results in a nonuniform distribution of defects in the oxide and in a Si-SiO2interface characterized by a certain disorder. The Si surface potential is determined by the defect structure of the oxide and phase boundary. High temperature postoxidation treatment leads to a redistribution of the oxide defects and rearrangement of the interface. To study these effects, p- and n-type Si was oxidized in dry oxygen at 1145°C. The oxidation was followed by a heat treatment in a dry helium atmosphere at the oxidation temperature for various periods of time (2 minutes to 65 hours). The density of the charged oxide and interface states was determined by MOS capacitance measurements. It was found that the density of the donor states decreases logarithmically with the annealing time. Since such a behavior is typical of adsorption phenomena that are associated with modifications of the surface structure, we attribute this change to a rearrangement of the phase boundary. Further evidence for this is the fact that the density of donor states for quenched samples increases with the oxidation rate within the regime of parabolic growth, n-type specimens also exhibited donor states but their distribution was different from that for p-type units. In the presence of slight traces of water vapor, redistribution of hydroxyls can become the predominant mechanism, especially for longer annealing times."
"Two experiments were performed with phosphorus stabilized and untreated silicon dioxide films on silicon substrates. In the first, the interaction of phosphorus and boron was studied; it was found that diffusion of boron over a phosphorus stabilized film destroyed its stabilization against ion drift effects at 400°C, but that diffusion of phosphorus over a boron diffused film resulted in a stabilized oxide. In the second experiment, a slowly varying voltage was applied at 600°C to a silicon-silicon dioxide-gold structure and the current through the oxide film was recorded. Both phosphorus stabilized and untreated silicon dioxide films show rectifying characteristics, the more highly conducting direction being that with the silicon negative. In the case of the untreated film, a large peak of current is superimposed on this characteristic at -2.5 volts. This peak is absent in phosphorus stabilized films. Discharge currents equivalent to the charging currents are not observed on removing voltage from the specimen, as they are at 400°C. Five distinguishable types of charge transfer in silicon dioxide films are tabulated, and compared with those described in the literature as occurring in crystal quartz."
"A new device has been used to study the surface recombination velocity and surface state characteristics of Si-SiO2interfaces. The device consists of an epitaxially-formed junction diode. When the junction is forward-biased, minority carriers are injected from the heavily-doped substrate into the lightly-doped epitaxial region. The thickness of the epitaxial region is much less than the diffusion length for minority carriers. Thus, the diode current for a given junction forward bias is directly proportional to surface recombination velocity at the Si-SioO2interface. A gate electrode over the SiO2has been included to vary surface potential. Thus, this new device permits one to simultaneously study MOS capacitance-voltage characteristics as well as surface recombination velocity. The capacitance-voltage characterics indicate the surface states exhibit a quasi-continuous energy distribution. N-type surfaces exhibited donor levels lying in the range of ∼0.15 to ∼0.45 eV above the valence band; their density was found to vary from ∼5 × 1012to 5 × 1013states/cm2/eV. In contrast, p-type surfaces exhibited acceptor levels lying in the range of ∼0.15 to ∼0.45 eV below the conduction band; their density was comparable to those observed on n-type surfaces. The maximum value of surface recombination velocity was found to vary from 3 × 103to > 104cm/s. Surface recombination velocity was found to correlate directly with surface state density."
"An extensive investigation of the dielectric properties of thermally grown silicon dioxide films was performed in the temperature range from 400°C to 525°C. Principally, the variation of dissipation factor with frequency was observed at various applied peak fields and oxide thicknesses. In the temperature and frequency domain investigated, a large peak in the dissipation factor occurred. This peak corresponded to a massive capacitance dispersion with accompanying peaking of the loss factor at low frequencies. The phenomenon was apparently an ionic space-charge polarization. Theoretical developments based on this model were verified by experiment. The activation energy for the relaxation time was 10.1 ± 0.4 kcal/mole. Examination of the oxide thickness dependence indicated that the carriers were not uniformly distributed initially, but a fixed number was present at a particular temperature and this number was independent of thickness. Further investigation led to the conclusion that a reaction between the metal electrode and the SiO2produced positively charged oxygen vacancies which migrated through the oxide under the influence of an electric field. A mechanism for the production and migration of these vacancies is proposed which complies with the low activation energy as well as the observed temperature and electrode dependence."
"Direct comparison has been made between Na distribution determined radiochemically and electrically in 6000 Å thermal oxide on 10Ω-cm n-type Si. Na within\\siml 1000Å of Si/SiO2interface correlates in most cases with MOS flat band voltage shift, i.e. NNa(\\siml 1000Å) ≈ +ΔQMOS. Appreciable Na, which does not appear to affect Si surface potential, is found through the bulk of the oxide. Neutron activation of \"clean\" oxide (grown in wet or dry oxygen) showed ∼1 ppm Na throughout, ∼10 ppm at free surface. Gold was also identified at ppm concentrations but did not correlate with ΔQMOS. The U-shaped profile seen after diffusion (300 to 1000°C in dry N2) or in-drift (∼200°C, 5 × 105V/cm) is believed due to rate limitation at the free surface; electrostatic binding plus enhanced solubility at the Si/SiO2interface. Time dependence was observed in diffusion at 500 and 800°C, which is not expected from the fast diffusion of Na. This is also attributed to the surface rate limitation. The anion significantly affects Na diffusion kinetics and distribution in contamination experiments with radiotracer Na24OH, Na24Cl, and Na24Br82. Br is found to accompany Na diffusion, suggesting anion neutralization of Na within the bulk oxide. P2O5. SiO2is seen to \"getter\" Na from the oxide. These results support the suggestion of Snow et al. that Na is responsible for uncontrolled drift of surface potential in oxidized Si devices."
"Thin film silicon oxide capacitors with nonshorting breakdowns were investigated. Breakdowns appear in three forms: single hole, self-propagating, and maximum voltage breakdowns. Single hole and self-propagating breakdowns occur at flaws, and self-propagating breakdowns develop only when the resistor to the source is relatively small, less than 10 kΩ in these experiments. After flaws are burned out by single hole breakdowns, with larger source resistors the maximum voltage breakdown can be observed, destroying the whole capacitor simultaneously. Plotting current against voltage, the current increase is quasi-exponential, but prior to maximum voltage breakdown, the current continues to increase while the voltage decreases slightly below a maximum value Vm. Assuming thermal instability as the cause for this change in the I-V relationship, we have derived an expression for the maximum voltage Vm. Calculated results for fields up to 9.5 MV/cm were found to agree well with measurements for temperatures from -145°C to 65°C and for thicknesses from 3000 Å to 50 000 Å. Fmdecreases with increasing temperature and thickness of insulation, and is higher for silicon dioxide than for silicon monoxide films. Maximum voltage breakdown occurs when the quasi-exponential increase of leakage current with field produces thermal instability over the whole capacitor area. The maximum dielectric strength is characteristic of the whole capacitor and is determined by its electrical and thermal conductance."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"The Townsend equations for avalanche breakdown in back biased p-n junctions may be derived from the transport equations for semiconductors. Integral solutions of the time independent equations are well known. An integral solution of the time dependent equations is given for multiplication by one carrier only. An exact solution is given for multiplication by two carriers with equal ionization coefficients in a constant junction field. The Townsend equations are nonlinear because of space charge effects. It is shown, however, that the nonlinearity, which imposes an upper limit on the current multiplication possible, is not important until the total multiplied current approaches the space charge limited current for the junction. Assuming multiplication is due to one carrier, frequency response curves are calculated for constant and linear junction fields and for a generation rate, due to photon absorption, which is either uniform or given by a delta function at the junction boundary. The curves indicate a relatively slight dependence of the frequency response on multiplication. Frequency response curves are also given for multiplication by both carriers with equal ionization coefficients when the junction field is constant. In this case the frequency response decreases continuously as the multiplication is increased. For multiplication by two carriers with unequal ionization coefficients, the frequency response is independent of multiplication until the product of the multiplication and the ratio of the ionization coefficients approaches one. Thereafter the frequency response decreases with multiplication."
"With the increasing use of PIN diodes in high power, microwave switching components, knowledge of the diode transient thermal response to such pulse dissipation becomes of increasing importance. Thermal models for the microwave dissipation within the diode are proposed for both the forward and reverse biased states. Based on these models, both the maximum and junction temperature step responses and pulse waveforms are determined for both bias states. For the forward bias state, the maximum temperature occurs near the center of the dissipation or I-region and for a step increase in dissipation, initially increases linearly with time then levels off to a constant difference with respect to the junctions. Under the same conditions, the junction temperature (relative to an appropriate heat sink) initially increases linearly also followed by a square root dependence to the steady-state value. The total response is therefore characterized by two fundamental thermal time constants and thermal resistances corresponding to the dissipative and conductive regions. Of major importance is the substantial calculated temperature differences which can occur between the center of the I-region and the junction where the temperature is normally experimentally monitored. For the reverse bias state, the maximum temperature occurs at the junctions because of the more localized dissipation and follows the square root dependence to the steady-state value. With knowledge of the diode thermal parameters, the relations given, and quantitative substantiation of the model proposed, the transient temperature response, together with its imposed component design limitations, are now obtainable."
"This paper attempts to fulfill the need for a quantitative analysis of the microwave equivalent steady state circuit parameters of the reverse biased PIN diode as a function of the process variables of the unit. The process variables considered include the effects of small impurity concentrations in the I region and variations in diffusion depth, surface dopant concentration, and I region width at the microwave frequency of 1 Gc/s. Using the Q of the diode as a result of a given design, it is shown that a high Q depends on having a small width, high resistivity I region, along with a shallow diffusion depth. The equivalent circuit parameters are independent of surface dopant concentration to a first approximation."
"Measurements are reported on the device parameters and the noise properties of junction-gate field-effect transistors and the results are compared with theory. It is found that the high-frequency input conductance g11and the high-frequency gate-drain conductance g12vary as the square of the frequency and show practically full thermal noise. The high-frequency transconductance decreases with increasing frequency, as expected theoretically. The high-frequency output noise of the FET for short-circuited input is the sum of the low-frequency noise of the FET and the thermal noise of |g12|. A small correlation effect between the short-circuit gate noise and the short-circuit drain noise exists and agrees with theory. An approximate expression for the noise figure is given that is reasonably correct up to the cutoff frequency of the FET."
"Expressions for the noise parameters of microwave transistors are derived. The theory is based on a small-signal common-emitter equivalent circuit which includes a new basic noise equivalent circuit and the dominanting header parasitics. The theory is verified experimentally in the L-band (1 to 2 Gc/s) frequency range using Ge and Si microwave transistors. It is found that the header parasitics have little influence on the minimum noise figure, but do have large effects on the equivalent noise resistance and the optimum source admittance in the frequency region above about one-half of the series-resonant frequency resulting from the parasitics in conjunction with wafer parameters. For a quick evaluation of the noise performance, new approximate expressions are also given for the noise figure and for the optimum current which produces the lowest value."
"The low pulse rate design of an avalanche noise diode described by Haitz1is modified in order to obtain a Gaussian probability distribution. The essential modification is an increase of the avalanche pulse rate from less than 104sec-1to more than 106sec-1. This high pulse rate is achieved, in a controlled way, by reducing the breakdown voltage from about 30 volts to 12 volts. As with the low pulse rate design of Haitz [1], the avalanche pulse rate is determined by trigger carriers generated by internal field emission. Spectral voltage density and temperature coefficient are estimated and found to be in good agreement with the experimental results of 0.5 mV per c/s1/2and -8.10-3/°C, respectively. The spectral voltage density is fiat within ±1 dB over the frequency range from 10 c/s to 200 kc/s. After passing the noise through a low pass filter with a cutoff frequency of 200 kc/s the probability distribution of the noise voltage is Gaussian. The spectral voltage density is practically insensitive to variations of the supply voltage between 15 volts and 25 volts, corresponding to a current variation from 30 µA to 130 µA."
"A technique is described to estimate the transient response of thin-film devices at time intervals which exceed the greatest time constant or which are exceeded by the smallest time constant of the device. Relevant properties of distributed-parameter network functions are evaluated by applying the extreme value limit theorem to the corresponding Laplace Transform. Each configuration is characterized by an associated excitation function which predicts the device response at extreme values in the time domain (t = 0andt = \\infin). A systematic investigation of the transient response of a rectangular\\bar{RC}film-type network consists of tabulating characteristics or critical excitation functions for all eight driving-point configurations and for all twelve transfer-function configurations due to excitation of the types_{-n/2}withn = 0, 1, 2, 3, 4. Once the critical excitation function is determined, the transient response for arbitrary excitations is readily available. Applications to design problems encountered in thin-film and integrated circuits are discussed. The technique becomes increasingly accurate as time intervals are approached which correspond to frequencies outside the range of break-frequencies of the device."
"The noise generated by a dc glow discharge inside a coaxial ignitor embedded in a standard X-band TR stage has been studied experimentally and the results analyzed. The noise variation due to changes in physical dimensions, notably the dc and RF gap length, have been experimentally measured and a physical explanation presented to account for the phenomenon. Dependence on dc current, pressure, and gas type was also measured in controlled experiments. It is shown that the generated noise and the coupling of this noise to the microwave transmission line is a critical function of the tip shape and insertion depth of the solid cone into the coaxial ignitor cone. This effect is due to the interception of the charge carriers by the apex of the solid cone. This interception creates a noise current whose axis makes an angle with the\\bar{E}vector of a propagating mode(s). When this angle is small and the discharge current large, the noise energy in the transmission line becomes large. Data showing a linear dependence of generated noise with ignitor current provides strong evidence that this is shot noise. Calculations of the available thermal power per cycle and the shot noise power per cycle are summed and compared with each other and with experimental values. These calculations further indicate the dominance of shot noise power under experimental conditions simulating a practical TR tube. Conclusions regarding techniques for the development of ultralow noise TR's are given."
"A new electron-gun structure capable of beam intensification with single pulses of nanosecond and subnanosecond duration has been developed at Stanford. The operating range of the gun is direct current to 3000 Mc/s. Single pulses with amplitudes as low as 1 volt produce a visible display and can be photographed. The gun can be used with conventional magnetic and electrostatic focusing and deflection systems. The design requirements for the coaxial intensification structure are compatible with those for high resolution. The experimental gun produces a spot of approximately 0.004-inch diameter. This paper presents general results and possible applications, a description of the new gun and test results, a discussion of the possibility of increasing frequency range and sensitivity, and alternative methods considered."
"A simple theory is presented of forward and backward wave interaction between a fast wave in a guide and an electron beam injected into a magnetic field and rippling at the cyclotron frequency. Experiments on a tube at Q band seem to confirm the theory but show that there are other effects as well. An RF output of 36 kW in the forward wave mode indicates a possible traveling wave amplifier at millimeter wavelengths."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"The theory of the characteristics of the MOS transistors is developed based on a model in which both the bulk charge due to the ionized impurity in the semiconductor substrate and the difference between the electrostatic potential and the voltage drop in the channel are included. A detailed comparison of the theory is made with experimental data of gate capacitance, drain current voltage characteristics, and transconductance characteristics on both N-channel and P-channel silicon devices with thin (2000 A) and thick (6200 and 8400 A) oxides under the gate electrode. The correlation is good using the surface mobility as the adjustable parameter. Mobility reduction in the saturation transconductance characteristics is predicted in the theory and demonstrated in the experimental data. It arises entirely from the bulk charge, which modifies the device characteristics, and is not associated with some basic surface scattering phenomena, which further reduce the mobility. It is also demonstrated experimentally that to evaluate a physically meaningful surface mobility from the conductance of the channel, the interface surface state charge Qsscannot be assumed constant in the devices used in this study."
"The theory of the thermal noise due to channel conductance fluctuation is extended for insulated gate (MOS) field effect transistors with the gate voltage induced channel structure by including the bulk charge from the ionized impurities in the semiconductor substrate. In the saturation range of the drain characteristics, the theory shows thatR_{gns} g_{ms} \\geq 2/3, where the equality condition corresponds to the previously obtained result for an intrinsic or chemically pure semiconductor substrate. Satisfactory correlations between theory and experimental measurements are obtained for both P-channel and N-channel silicon devices with either a thin oxide (2000A) or a thick oxide (6200 and 8400A) gate."
"The pump modulation factorsmof various GaAs and Si varactor diodes have been measured under operating conditions. The device used for the measurements was a phase sensitive degenerate parametric amplifier with a signal frequency of 5.85 Gc/s phase locked with a pump frequency at 11.7 Gc/s. The input impedance of the amplifier varies with relative phase of pumped elastance (θp) and signal current (θs) according toZ{\\upsilon} = R_{s} + \\frac{S_{0}}{j\\omega_{s}} + \\frac{mS_{0}}{\\omega_{s}} e^{i(\\theta_{p} - 2\\theta_{s})}. The locus of the impedance is a circle which can be plotted directly on a Smith chart. The radius of this circle yields the modulation factorm. The results show a noticeable difference between the behavior of Si epitaxial and various types of GaAs diodes. The silicon diodes exhibit a large increase inmwith increasing diode forward current, while little is gained by changing the bias voltage. GaAs diodes show little increase inmwith increasing current, but there is a steady increase with increasing negative bias when the forward current is fixed. It can be concluded from the data that the gain-bandwidth products can be improved at the expense of increased shot noise-which must be expected at larger forward currents-when using Si epitaxial diodes by pumping slightly into the forward conduction region, whereas little can be gained by using the same technique with GaAs diodes."
"GaAs, Si n/p, and Si p/n solar cells were irradiated with 185-530 keV protons. The short-circuit current of the GaAs and the open-circuit voltage of the Si cells decreased severely as a result of bombardment. The short-circuit current of the Si cells was independent of flux at first, but it then fell rapidly. The damage produced in both the GaAs and Si cells increased with the proton energy. A model which accounts for the proton range satisfactorily explains the experimental results. This model predicts that the maximum damage rate in short-circuit current will occur at proton energies of 4-6 MeV for cells irradiated at 45° with respect to the beam. Above this energy, Rutherford-type behavior is expected."
"The theory, design, fabrication, and testing of flat plate thermoelectric generator panels for near-earth orbits are described. These panels are capable of producing 3 watts/ft2and 15 watts/pound when operating in a near-earth orbit. The potential advantages of these solar energy converters, as compared to photovoltaic cells, are discussed and include higher radiation resistance, improved watts/pound, and lower cost on a per-watt basis."
"The triggered vacuum gap is a normally nonconducting device in which a high-current metal-vapor arc can be established by a suitable pulse of current to a triggering electrode. While this gap is well suited to switching applications at high voltage, it has properties which make it useful at low voltage as well. The operation of the triggered vacuum gap has, therefore, been studied in the range 100 to 1000 volts. It was found that, although the gap could be triggered with currents as low as 0.02 amperes, consistent triggering with firing delays less than a microsecond required trigger pulses of 10 amperes or more. Little or no dependence of firing time on main gap voltage was observed. Below a few hundred volts, however, the probability of establishing a stable main discharge with a short duration trigger pulse falls off rapidly with decreasing gap voltage. The polarity of the main gap voltage and of the trigger pulse strongly influenced the firing characteristics of the gap in the range studied. These effects are discussed in detail."
"A three-cavity extended-interaction klystron, with cavities consisting of resonated sections of ring-bar structure, was tested in pulsed operation near 25 kV at 1100 Mc/s. The active length of the output resonator was variable between one and five resonant half wavelengths. The input and the intermediate cavities were tuned continuously to simulate a wide-band stagger-tuned bunching section. The dependence was investigated of the efficiency and the saturated bandwidth on the length and the loading conditions of the output resonator, and on the beam velocity. Data are presented which lead to the following conclusions: As the cavity length is increased, the peak efficiency rises up to a point and then remains constant, while the bandwidth increases proportional to cavity length. As the loading is reduced, for a given cavity length, the efficiency generally rises monotonically until further reduction in loading results in the onset of regenerative cavity oscillations at the frequency of the design resonance. The necessary suppression of regenerative oscillation in adjacent resonances becomes more difficult as the cavity length is increased, and a basic limitation on cavity length is given by the quality of the coupler, which must be capable of providing uniform and heavy loading over a broad frequency range."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"The theory pertaining to the behavior of a cylindrical electron beam emitted from a nonshielded cathode in an axial, monotonically increasing magnetic field is experimentally verified. A convenient technique of measuring the scalloping of electron beams in sealed-off tubes by varying the beam voltage is described. Experimental results include the study of the beam compression and percentage scalloping in several configurations of increasing magnetic fields. It is shown that for such beams the percentage scalloping is fairly independent of the amount of compression."
"The application of P-channel MOS structure as a resistor is studied in detail. The device operates below saturation. Effective sheet resistances of 7-25 kohms/sq. can be achieved with fair controllability. The linearity of the V-I characteristics will be determined by the biasing conditions. The temperature coefficient of such a resistor is ≈0.3-0.35 percent/°C."
"The proposal of connecting several varactor wafers in series to obtain higher breakdown voltages without loss of cutoff frequency is explored theoretically and experimentally. Calculations indicate that for a common wafer and junction geometry, the cutoff frequency of series-stacked varactors will vary approximately as VB-1/2instead of the more rapid VB-1or VB-3/2variation characteristic of a single wafer. The virtue of this scheme has been demonstrated in a 4-to-12 Gc/s multiplier using varactors consisting of 1, 2, 3, and 4 series-connected, epitaxial GaAs, surface barrier wafers. As anticipated, the varactor breakdown voltages increased directly with the number of wafers employed and the power capability as the square of that number, while efficiency decreased only slightly. A maximum power output of 1.2 watts at 12 Gc/s was obtained with 62 percent efficiency in a tripler circuit."
"A problem in the production of silicon integrated circuits has been yield limitation and applicability restriction due to the large variation and temperature sensitivity of diffused silicon resistors. Use of a thin-film resistive complement on silicon integrated circuits improves performance of many microcircuits heretofore made by the silicon planar process alone. The technique for thin-film on silicon integrated circuits is based on a two-metal resistor-conductor system: tantalum and aluminum. Tantalum was selected as the resistive material because it can be cathodically sputtered with ease, and a wide range of specific resistivity is available as a result of the controlled energy sputtering technique. The process involves production of the active element part of the circuit with standard silicon integrated circuit planar techniques, including contacting the cuts with deposited aluminum. The only deviation from the standard process lies in leaving some unetched SiO2surface area for resistor deposition. Tantalum is cathodically sputtered over the wafer, and delineated by standard photolithographic techniques to form resistor, conductor, and pad areas. A second layer of aluminum is then vacuum deposited over the wafer, and this is delineated to cover the pad and conductor areas of the tantalum with a high conductivity overlay. The exposed tantalum is then thermally stabilized and the final sheet resistivity adjusted by the resulting controlled sheet resistivity increase. The resulting circuits contain stable resistors with tolerance distributions of ±5 percent to ±10 percent, and TCR of -200 to -300 PPM/°C. The silicon active elements in the circuits do not degrade as a result of the thin-film resistor formation."
"Thyristors (SCR's) were specially constructed to permit the direct observation of the lateral spread of turn-on within the device. The effects on the spread of turn-on of the load current, basewidths, temperature, anode-cathode voltage, gate control pulse, and a large inhomogeneity were observed. The spreading velocity of the on-state and the load current are related approximately by the expressionV^{n} \\propto Iat high load currents. The spreading velocity is higher in devices with narrower basewidths and increases with temperature. Neither the anode-cathode voltage before turn-on nor the gate control pulse affect the spreading velocity of the on-state. Measurements on end gate devices and center gate linear devices show that triggering at the center enables an equivalent area of the SCR to turn on in less time than occurs when triggering at the end. A large gap in the emitter layer will delay the spread of the on-state but will not necessarily stop the spreading."
"Convergence and accuracy criteria have been determined for computer techniques analyzing an axially symmetric or two-dimensional electrode system with an emitting surface. The convergence criterion has been drawn from analytical studies of the one-dimensional model and verified numerically by the computer program for an analytically designed, axially symmetric Pierce-type electrode system. The accuracy of the computer program is illustrated with two electron gun configurations of known analytical solutions, and comparison of cathode current emission, beam minimum radius, and its location is made with experimental data of a high perveance Pierce-type gun."
"The coupled-mode equations for a thin beam in a crossed-field electron tube are derived, taking into account space-charge effects by which the degeneracy of the space-charge waves is split. The equations are applied to several types of interactions between circuit waves and beam waves. The results obtained are interpreted in terms of power flow. The boundary conditions of a velocity jump in a drift region are derived. The possibility of reducing the noise figure using velocity jumps is considered."
"The plate current, transconductance, gain-bandwidth product, and power output capabilities of small planar triodes have been increased nearly tenfold over that obtained from present day commercial tubes of comparable size and weight. In the new experimental triodes, the cathode can supply a CW current density of 1.6 A/cm2. A closely spaced, rigidly supported grid structure can provide a transconductance of 0.7 mho. The output capacitance is low enough to render a gain-bandwidth product of 22 Gc/s at 1.3 Gc/s. In this frequency range, the CW power output capability is 1 kW, and the pulsed power output capability in a 10-percent bandwidth circuit is 5 kW with 500 μs pulses at a duty factor of 0.07."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"This paper discusses the fabrication and properties of a new class of microwave limiter device, based on the impact ionization of deep levels in silicon. In this device a deep lying impurity is used to provide a large number of states from which the impact generation of carriers can proceed. Nickel was used to provide the necessary deep levels because of its high solid solubility in silicon. Impact ionization is noted at a critical field of 1 to 2 × 104volts per cm. Once initiated, the voltage across the device falls to a sustaining value. The mechanism of initial breakdown is relatively fast (at subnanosecond rates) while that of clamping to a low sustaining value is comparatively slow (at microsecond rates). The device exhibits an open-circuit-stable negative resistance characteristic during the transition from the high impedance state to the low impedance state."
"The high-frequency thermal noise in the drain and the gate of an enhancement mode MOS field-effect transistor was analyzed by using the transmission line model of the channel. The analysis gave the mean squared noise current generators of the drain and the gate and their correlation. The correlation coefficient of the drain and the gate noise was zero for zero drain voltage and was 0.395j at saturation. The noise figure of the MOS field-effect transistor was calculated from the result of the analysis. The high-frequency noise characteristics of an MOS field-effect transistor were similar to those of a junction gate field-effect transistor."
"A new technique and apparatus are described whereby the secondary emission ratio of a variety of materials can be measured. The experimental setup employs two electron guns in a demountable vacuum system and associated electronics. The system, which operates at a pressure of about 5 × 10-7torr, has the advantage of taking data under steady-state conditions rather than employing pulsing techniques. Conductors, semiconductors, and dielectrics can be tested in the demountable. The principal features of this technique are 1) use of a flood electron gun to place the target surface at some fixed voltage, and 2) the use of an amplitude modulated probing electron beam and a narrow-band amplifier centered at the probing beam modulating frequency, to measure the collected probing current at the target. Secondary emission measurements on semiconductors are described for primary energies from zero through first crossover to approximately 50 eV above maximum. Modification of the system to enable measurements up to 10 kilovolts is also explained. Advantages of this apparatus as an important laboratory tool for the measurement of the secondary emission characteristic of materials for use in camera tubes, image converters, storage tubes, electron multipliers, and other devices, are emphasized."
"A proposed theory of metal vapor arcs in vacuum, based on the assumption of field emission of electrons, has been used to calculate the time delay of Lafferty's Triggered Vacuum Gap, with excellent agreement with experiment."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"Use of the dc transit time as a new spatial variable and the use of RS beam current multiplied by the dc beam velocity as a new space-charge wave variable simplify the form of the equations for space-charge waves on one-dimensional accelerated electron streams. Using the simplified equations, RF impedance functions are found for electron diodes. Nyquist analysis is used to investigate the stability of diodes for varying current densities, voltages, and external loadings. The results of a number of past authors' studies of impedance, oscillations, and instabilities are correlated and treated from a unified point of view. The methods developed here are an alternative to the Llewellyn-Peterson technique, utilizing solutions of ordinary differential equations rather than integral equations."
"In cathode lenses with high anode potential, as used in image tubes, each object point is imaged by a narrow ray bundle, Requirements for a ray-tracing method are 1) computation of a principal ray with allowance for total aberration, and 2) computation of other rays in the imaging bundle in a manner which is \"paraxial\" with respect to the principal ray; i.e., small departures from the principal ray, due to initial energies, are computed directly on a linear basis, using potential derivatives at the principal ray only. The method described fulfills these requirements and allows accurate determination of focal surfaces, displaying the effects of field curvature, astigmatism, and distortion. Accuracy is demonstrated by comparison with theoretical results and further supported by practical results."
"Computer techniques for analyzing an axially symmetric or two-dimensional electrode system with an emitting surface can be used to obtain cathode current density distribution, beam minimum radius and its location, as well as possible electrode current interception. Here, comparison is made of available experimental data from two axially symmetric Pierce-type guns. The choice of the two axially symmetric Pierce-type guns was made for their different value of PV/T ratio, an invariant for transverse scaling. One of them has a low ratio of PV/T(\\approx 0.1 \\times 10^{-6}), which signifies considerable beam spread due to the effects of the Maxwellian velocity distribution of the thermal electrons leaving the cathode. The other gun has a high perveance of2 \\times 10^{-6}, and thus relatively high PV/T ratio where beam spreading is mainly due to space-charge forces alone. Good agreement with experimental data is shown. Computer techniques of this type can be a valuable tool for diagnostic purposes of any type of space-charge-flow devices (e.g., electron guns, ion guns for space propulsion, linear accelerators, etc.) and enable the engineer-designer to arrive quickly and cheaply at an optimum configuration."
"The Wiener-Hopf technique is used to solve for the electric field in a dc magnetohydrodynamic generator channel, under mixed boundary conditions. The ohmic losses are then evaluated. No restriction is made on the magnitude of the magnetic Reynolds number of the working fluid. Two problems of the semi-infinite generator section are solved, namely when the end region is at the channel entrance and when it is at the channel exit. Also the finite generator section problem is discussed."
"Although in the last decade silicon dioxide has been used extensively as a diffusion mask in semiconductor device fabrication, it has many limitations. It fails to mask many important diffusants such as gallium, aluminum, zinc, and oxygen. The masking properties of silicon nitride have been investigated. The results show that silicon nitride masks not only the same diffusants as silicon dioxide but also many diffusants where silicon dioxide fails."
"Results of the solution of the solar cell continuity equation performed by numerical approximation show that the optimum feld thickness of radiation-resistant drift-field solar cells is between 50 and 75 micrometers. Experimental verification was obtained by fabricating cells with no field, nonoptimum field, and optimum field, and by irradiating them with 1-MeV electrons with total fluxes of 1016particles cm-2."
"The effect of a reduction of breakdown voltage\\Delta V_{B}by external illumination of an oxide protected planar n+p diode or by non-equilibrium carriers drifting in a surface channel has been investigated. The appearance of a localized area where the external light spot causes maximum\\Delta V_{B}is described. The influence of light wavelength and ambient has been studied. A model is presented to explain the facts that a small current of non-equilibrium carriers controls an avalanche current which is several orders of magnitude larger, and that no lock-on mechanism has been observed. The model involves the field enhancement by slowly moving carriers in the space charge region at a narrow distance from the Si-SiO2interface. The influence of surface potentials on these carriers is emphasized."
"Low temperature epitaxial vapor growth of silicon has been successfully applied to the fabrication of variable capacitance diodes which have a hyperabrupt impurity distribution profile. These diodes exhibit a strong nonlinear behavior in capacitance voltage characteristics; for example, one of the diodes has the value of n as high as 15 in the differential capacitance formula:dC/C = -n dV/(V + \\Phi). It has been found that the capacitance voltage and current voltage characteristics agree well with those calculated from the impurity profile so that the diodes with a high voltage sensitivity and with a high quality factor can be designed and fabricated reproducibly by this technique, and used in all solid-state FM modulators and automatic gain control units in a microwave relay system transmitting multiplex telephone signals. The double breakdown phenomenon in the current voltage characteristic of some diodes was observed and proved to be the saturation effect of generation recombination currents."
"A simple two-dimensional model for gated turn-off of a p-n-p-n device is used to derive an expression relating the storage time and the turn-off gain. The observed dependence of storage time on turn-off gain fits the derived expression well for devices specially fabricated consistant with the assumptions of the model. The fall time is discussed qualitatively."
"A lateral current in an emitter layer of a thyristor (SCR) is shown to vary the lateral field in the base layers and also to change the distribution of the current density injected from the emitter to the base. A method of using lateral emitter layer currents in an SCR to increase the spreading velocity of the on-region and, at higher currents, to turn on quickly areas of the SCR remote from the gate contact is demonstrated experimentally."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"The existence of a \"new high-current mode of transistor operation,\" now generally known as second breakdown, was first reported by Thornton and Simmons in 1958 and was used to explain the mysterious failures that were observed to occur under certain operating conditions. Since then, with the production of higher power and higher frequency transistors, the problems resulting from the existence of second breakdown have proliferated. Interest in the phenomenon has grown concurrently and many papers about second breakdown can be found in the literature. These papers cover a range of interest that extends from theoretical studies of the basic mechanisms involved to interpretations of specifications for transistor operation free of second breakdown. A complete understanding of second breakdown has not yet been achieved and several concepts of second breakdown prevail. The purpose of this paper is to review historically the work that has been reported in order to present a coherent and comprehensive picture of the present status of second breakdown."
"The use of high-frequency silicon power transistors with interdigitated comb emitter structure was successful for proving the essential features of the theory of lateral thermal instability and second breakdown. For a more detailed study of the appearance of hot spots and their relationship to the onset of second breakdown, the use of a simpler structure looked advisable. This paper describes an uncomplicated geometry which offers many possibilities for modifications. Calculations, experimental data, and photographs are presented which show the means by which second breakdown and possible burnout occurs after the formation of a hot spot. In particular, measurements demonstrate the localized thermal runaway in the collector-base diode and the relationship to the presence of the emitter. The role of the emitter and base layer resistances as well as the resistance of the contacting metal layers (series and contact resistance) in reducing the thermal instability is shown. The shorted emitter structure proved to be a successful method to postpone or even avoid the appearance of second breakdown. The tool for the determination of current and voltage distributions within the small silicon structures was a potential microprobing apparatus with a resolution of 2µ."
"The dependence of the transition time between avalanche breakdown and second breakdown on the input power to a p-n junction was studied both in transistor configurations and in single junction structures. The transition time is observed to decrease with increased input power. The dependence of the transition time on the input power indicates a constant input energy for which second breakdown occurs. The effect the thermal heating may have on conduction in a junction is also considered. The constant energy required and related occurrence of melt channels in the junction region are felt to support the thermal hypothesis."
"An important characteristic of second breakdown in p-n junctions is the current constriction to a small region. This may be caused by a thermal feedback mechanism, as discussed by Scarlett and Shockley, and by Bergmann and Gerstner. A brief review of this theory is given, illustrated by experimental results of a simple model arrangement consisting of three thermally coupled transistors. The essential parameters influencing the thermal stability of the current distribution are device geometry, power density, and temperature dependence of current. It is widely known that second breakdown occurs at high voltages at a much lower power level than at low voltages. To allow a more detailed discussion of this effect in view of thermal stability, we determined experimentally the temperature coefficient of transistor current for various Si planar transistors as a function of current, voltage, and junction temperature. The experimental procedure is described and the results are discussed. The experimental values of the temperature coefficient range from 0.08 to 0.01 1/°C. The values for high currents are much lower than predicted by the theory of Ebers and Moll. It thus can easily be understood why, in the case of high current, and low voltage, the thermal stability of the current distribution is much better than in the case of low current and high voltage."
"To investigate the reasons for second breakdown1- or thermal switchback--and then to extend the safe operating area of power transistors, the behavior of an array of twenty small devices, mounted in parallel on a common heat sink, first without, then with an emitter series resistance, was evaluated. The first configuration suffers from β changes occurring at relatively low currents, an abrupt decrease of the base-to-emitter voltage, and failure to dissipate power. The configuration with emitter resistance shows a very tight collector-current base-current distribution, and normal base-to-emitter voltage characteristic. The same effect was obtained on a single large area device by employing a distributed thin-film resistor in series with the emitter. The uniform current distribution and the better thermal spreading of the heavily inter-digitated epitaxial device compensate for the small increase in saturation voltages due to the emitter resistance. Improved operating current levels and safe operating area are results observed on relatively small chip sizes."
"This paper illustrates the ability of the scanning electron microscope to contribute to the understanding of breakdown phenomena. In particular, we stress the use of this instrument as a very fine probe with an ability to make high resolution \"maps\" of the charge collection efficiency of a diode, and to detect very small regions of avalanche breakdown. By means of recently obtained pictures, the voltage sensitivity and spatial resolution of this technique is discussed. The range of experimental conditions over which this method can be used is described. The inherent limitations and the possible extensions are also given. Finally, the application to \"second breakdown\" is suggested."
"This paper reports experimental measurements on second breakdown behavior of transistors which were altered from conventional structure so as to allow the addition of externally mounted, variable resistors to a finely divided emitter. It is found that forward-biased second breakdown can be improved so that with suitable resistances, the safepower vs. voltage curve becomes a straight line, allowing the transistor power dissipation to be thermally limited at all voltages rather than second break limited at higher voltages. Data are presented showing the variation of obtainable power and the degree of nonuniform current distribution as a function of the resistance in series with the divided emitter. The significance of the extent of emitter subdivision, i.e., how small the discrete areas are, is also shown by data taken using the emitter sites individually and in clusters. The theory supporting these experiments is presented. What is essentially required is a load line analysis applied simultaneously to the various IEvs. VBEcurves of the individual emitter regions. This is complicated by the shifting of these curves both with temperature and the application of collector voltage."
"A characterization technique for second breakdown in Ge p-n-p alloyed junction transistors with the open base condition is described. This method is based on the saturated characteristics which are expressed in the form of exponential dependence on the slope of the rising part of the applied voltage. Using this method, a comparison is made of transistor SB characteristics in terms of device characteristics, such as BVCEOand HFE."
"To solve the problem of transistor failures by transients in inductive load circuits, experiments are performed to monitor the voltage and current waveforms of such transients. It is concluded from this experiment that these failures are caused by secondary breakdown. A model of the local temperature rise is studied and shown to be the possible mechanism of secondary breakdown."
"At a constant forward or reverse base current, the pulse length of a collector current pulse, which forces a transistor under test into second breakdown, is measured. For all transistors measured, the pulse length\\log \\Delta tis plotted vs. the collector pulse height, with the forward or reverse base current as a parameter. According to our observations, one can distinguish three types of transistors, as far as their secondary breakdown characteristics are concerned. 1) Good epitaxial transistors show an approximately linear dependence of\\log \\Delta tto Icwith a negative slope. The curves for reverse base current are displaced parallel to the ones for forward base current, the energy of the pulses not being much different in both cases. 2) Bad epitaxial transistors show an S-shaped curve of\\log \\Delta tvs. Icfor reverse base currents. A deep minimum in second breakdown energy is observed at low collector currents. These transistors will readily fail in practical circuits, where the base current is allowed to reverse. 3) With homogeneous material, the\\log \\Delta tvs. Iccurves for forward and reverse base currents practically coincide. This method has revealed that a large number of transistor types, including overlay structures, show a decrease of energy handling capability of two to three orders of magnitude at collector currents of about 100 mA when the base current is reversed. It has also proved to be an indispensable tool in the development of high-frequency high power devices, which combine good electrical and second breakdown properties."
"The study of the mesoplasma as a fundamental model for second breakdown has been pursued by a variety of physical techniques. Microscopic molten globules of silicon have been observed on silicon diode surfaces under certain experimental conditions. Lapping and staining techniques were used to search the junction region for evidence of various kinds of damage and for information on the size and shape of regions affected by heat. The time dependence of light emission from the mesoplasma region in relation to electrical changes was studied. The light emission lags behind the onset of second breakdown and lingers on after the current through the device is shut off. Some work was done on the temperature dependence of the electrical characteristics of second breakdown. As far as possible, an attempt has been made to compare the physical results with the quantitative predictions of a computed model, with rather satisfactory correlations."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"The power spectrum of the current fluctuations (noise) in the double-base diode has been measured experimentally and calculated theoretically. It has been found that there are two sources of noise in the double-base diode. First, there is the thermal noise of the real part of the ac admittance. The second source of noise is fluctuations in numbers of electrons and holes in the conduction band and valence band, respectively. Noise measurements are also presented for a diode with a long, high resistivity base region. These measurements are discussed qualitatively."
"Owing to the similarity of the junction widths and doping levels in epitaxially formed GaAs lasers and conventional tunnel diodes, the gradual degradation of the latter under use might be expected to be intensified in the case of lasers operating under high duty cycle or CW conditions. It was found that the current-voltage characteristics of both the lasers and tunnel diodes underwent considerable thermal degradation even when no bias was applied, and that the degradation was limited to surface or \"junction edge\" effects. The degradation of the current-voltage characteristic was correlated with degradation in the light output under forward bias. It was concluded that degradation under forward bias was also a surface effect induced by heating rather than by deterioration of the junction in the bulk, as commonly believed. Methods of controlling the degradations are discussed."
"At high injection levels the static V-I characteristics of p-n junction devices must be modified to account for nonlinear transport mechanisms and for relationships between the injected carrier concentrations and the applied voltages which differ from the familiar low-injection relationships. These carrier-concentration-voltage relationships differ in part because of ohmic voltage drops and in part because of conductivity-modulation effects. It is difficult to explore experimentally the high-level extensions of p-n junction theory in diodes because ohmic drops usually dominate the VI characteristics at high levels. However, these effects can be studied experimentally in a transistor which operates in the avalanche mode, with zero base current, because the ohmic drops can be suppressed. Experimental results are presented which support an analysis of the high-level V-I characteristics of the emitter junction of a transistor. This analysis does not predict ane^{qV/2kT}dependence of the junction current at high levels, but yields instead ane^{qV/(1 \\pm m)kT}dependence, where m is a parameter having a value of about 0.3 in germanium, and V is the applied voltage less the ohmic drops. The plus sign applies for a p+-n junction while the minus sign holds for an n+-p junction. In accordance with this theory, complementary n-p-n and p-n-p transistors exhibit markedly different behavior at high injection levels."
"A method of determining the energy distribution of surface states at silicon-silicon dioxide interfaces by using low-frequency differential capacitance measurements of MOS structures is described. Low-frequency measurements make it possible to determine the silicon surface potential as a function of MOS voltage directly from the experimental data without requiring knowledge of the Si doping profile. No graphical differentiations are required to determine the surface state density from the experimental curves, and errors introduced by uncertainties in the silicon doping density are reduced. Also, it is shown that the measurements can be used to determine the relative lateral uniformity in the characteristics of the oxide and interface under the MOS field plate. Nonuniformities can result in large errors in the surface-state density derived from MOS capacitance measurements. Measurements are presented and interpreted for both n- and p-type silicon samples prepared by bias-growing the oxide in steam."
"Methods of enhancing transmission of ribbon-shaped electron beams undergoing circular motion in azimuthally periodic cylindrical electrostatic lenses are treated. Lens forces add to the naturally occurring curvature focusing to achieve this increase in beam transmission. Three basic configurations, differing only in the method of applying lens voltages, are treated: symmetrical focusing, deflection focusing, and asymmetric focusing (including inner and outer electrode segmentation). Expressions for beam perveance and rippling are derived from the paraxial-ray equation for thin electron ribbons advancing along a two-dimensional curved optical axis. The stiffness of azimuthally periodic electrostatically focused electron ribbons (i.e., the immunity of the beam to transverse disturbing forces) also receives attention. Mathematical extensions of the analysis to ribbon beams undergoing helical motion are discussed, and numerical results applicable to selected values of lens parameters are presented. Experimental results for an azimuthally periodic lens, constructed to test the analysis, are discussed in light of the theory developed."
"This paper describes the design, construction, and operation of a driver-decoder subsystem using a novel 64-position switch tube. The system is designed as part of a 10 Mc/s magnetic-core memory. The switch tube is a type of cathode-ray tube (CRT) using as a target, a 64-position matrix of silicon diodes. A split-plate electrostatic deflection system is used to select one diode out of the matrix, and turn it on with the electron beam. The effect of the beam is to produce a 1.5 ampere, 150 volt, 3 ns rise time pulse. The delay through the system is 25 ns."
"The dispersion characteristics of all bar-type slow-wave structures and filters can be derived in terms of a common bar admittance function. This admittance function, so far known only in infinite series form, is made amenable to direct numerical use by a transformation in the complex plane. The utilization of this result in the optimal design of bar lines is demonstrated with the example of the interdigital line."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"The problems about second breakdown can be discussed in three parts: 1) causes of localized high temperatures in the crystal, 2) mechanism of voltage drop, 3) physical state of the crystal after the voltage drop, i.e., the state of the second breakdown, when it is stable and reversible. About point 1) today very much is known. Point 2) cannot be discussed independent of point 3). In regard to point 3) three models have been published: 1) English and Power (1953). A small stable molten zone exists in the crystal. Visual observations (mesoplasmas) have led to this theory. Approximations show, that such a state is possible without destroying the transistor or the diode. 2) Melchior and Strutt (1964). High carrier densities occur at high temperatures and reduce the space charge in the junction in two steps with respect to the different impurity densities on both sides of the junction. This reduction causes the voltage drop. These temperatures are far below the melting point. 3) Weitzsch (1965). A small molten channel exists between the collector and the emitter in transistors or between the low-resistivity zone and the metal in diodes. More accurate calculations with rotational elliptic coordinates show the possibility of realizing such a state. There are sufficient calculations for model 3), which is an extension of model 1) only. Model 2) cannot be discussed in a closed form without knowledge of the ionization coefficients in the Townsend equation at high temperatures. There are two other models with possible low voltage state, but probably being not specific for second breakdown."
"This paper indicates that the energy dependence of semiconductor devices with respect to secondary breakdown can be explained on the basis of transient thermal resistance. The procedure for determining the transient thermal resistance is described. Results indicate that the thermal time constants of transistors is much shorter than heretofore recognized. Similar results are presented for voltage regulator diodes. In addition, a simple technique is described which significantly increases the thermal time constant of these devices. Similar changes are proposed for other semiconductor devices."
"A study was conducted to determine the effect, on second breakdown in transistors, of some of the crystallographic defects that can develop during handling and fabricating procedures. X-ray diffraction microscopy was used to detect these defects. The susceptibility to second breakdown of about 1500 epitaxial planar silicon transistors diffused on two wafers was measured and the site of the current constriction of second breakdown was registered on most of these transistors. These data were then compared with the X-ray topographs. Any effect of the observed gross dislocations was masked by other factors, such as apparent surface induced effects, that were not discernible hi the X-ray topographs. It is proposed that a faulted emitter structure, that has been correlated with the emitter diffusion step, may be of importance in affecting the susceptibility of the transistor to second breakdown. The heating in the transistor at the second breakdown current constriction site to temperatures above 600°C and recrystallized laser-induced melt regions smaller that about 30 µm in diameter produced no crystallographic changes nor any frozen-in strain fields detectable in the X-ray topographs."
"Current mode second breakdown is a type of voltage \"switchback\" observed in epitaxial transistors. The phenomenon is initiated when the emitter is injecting at a collector voltage in excess of the collector-emitter sustaining voltage, and is characterized by delay and voltage fall times on the order of a nanosecond. The device can be sustained in the low voltage state only as long as there is sufficient charge to produce conductivity modulation within the collector-base depletion region. When the available charge is exhausted, the collector voltage will recharge at a rate determined by the external circuit. At some critical current density, the collector-base depletion region collapses toward the high conductivity substrate. The electric field within the depletion region increases as the depletion region width narrows, until avalanche occurs. The sustaining voltage will be determined by the bulk base-to-collector avalanche voltage. A consequence of this behavior is that most epitaxial transistors cannot operate stably in the LVCERmode, and switching-off unclamped inductive circuits with the emitter-base junction terminated in some finite resistance will lead to second breakdown."
"Turnover phenomenon in N νl N Si devices was studied in relation to second breakdown in NP ν N Si transistors. The devices were fabricated by a usual diffusion method using P2O5powder as diffusant source. Four groups of the devices, each having a diameter of 1.0 mm, a thickness of 0.25 mm, a resistivity in ν layer ranging from 3 to 210 ohm-cm, and a surface concentration in N layer of 2 × 1020cm-3, were tested under two kinds of applied voltage. The applied voltage was a half-cycle voltage from ac source and single-pulse voltage with a rising and flat part. The field strength in ν layer was below 3 × 103v/cm. The voltage vs. current characteristics and the transient figures of voltage and current were observed on a memoriscope, and the temperature of the device was determined using temperature sensitive paints. The current increases linearly with the increasing voltage at the onset of the V-I curve, and saturates with further increases in voltage. Turnover occurs after the large departure from ohmic behavior in V-I characteristics. At the turnover, the temperature of the device was estimated to be near intrinsic; 160°C for the device with ∼ 210 ohm-cm, 330°C for ∼ 3 ohm-cm. The discussions on turnover characteristics are made in terms of the decrease in carrier mobility, the increase in carrier concentration in ν layer, and the current constriction in the device."
"High voltage diodes made of PνN (or PπN) structures sometimes fail by second breakdown when high voltage pulses are applied. The avalanche characteristics of PνN junction diodes are analysed and it is theoretically shown that they have negative resistance regions caused by the space charge effect of the carriers. Experiments on the second breakdown are also reported and it is concluded that the current concentration induced by the negative resistance may cause diode failure."
"Second breakdown is a most serious problem in transistor failure, especially in switching circuits with inductive loads. In this paper, second breakdown is analysed by a thermal concept. The transient junction temperature rise is determined by the transient thermal resistance measured by a new method suggested in this paper. Then, the second breakdown in base open condition is analyzed by increase of the collector saturation current ICEOdue to junction temperature rise. The delay time of second breakdown, which is defined as the time for collector current to increase to 120 percent of the initial value, is calculated. An experiment to measure the delay time is made exactly according to the calculations, and it is shown that the experimental result agrees with the calculated result. Furthermore, second breakdown in the base reverse bias condition and the turnover mechanism of collector output characteristics in a switching circuit with an inductive load are explained by current crowding effect. Second breakdown in a silicon transistor is also supposed to be caused by the same thermal mechanism."
"Current constriction in a p-n junction under a thermal mode of breakdown is analyzed and expressions for terminal voltage and radius of constriction are derived for silicon devices. The values predicted by this model are of the same order as those observed for transistors under second breakdown; it is proposed that second breakdown in transistors is a thermal mode of breakdown which inevitably follows if energy dissipated in the avalanche mode of breakdown is large enough to increase the temperature of some portion of the junction to the intrinsic or turnover temperature of the junction."
"The development of nondestructive second-breakdown measuring techniques and equipment is described. Such apparatus is essential to the analysis of the \"safe area of operation\" of transistors for device development and particular circuit application. The present techniques for detecting second breakdown in both the forward-biased and the reverse-biased mode are discussed. When a transistor is operated in the forward-biased mode, hot spots may develop which produce second breakdown if temperature extremes are reached before this condition is recognized. With existing detection methods, the device may already have been damaged before this condition is recognized. Techniques for electronic detection of hot spots before such degradation occurs are illustrated and compared to phosphorus ultraviolet hot spot measurements. When these new detection techniques are used, transistors can be characterized for forward-biased \"safe area of operation\" for applications such as audio output stages, series regulators, and class AB linear RF power amplifiers. Another form of second breakdown occurs under reverse-biased conditions, when the transistor is in primary breakdown. Because of the small areas involved, second breakdown occurs much more rapidly in this mode than under forward-biased conditions. An accompanying oscillation in the control electrode has proved to be a reliable detection mechanism. This work was performed primarily on multiple-diffused power transistors, in which reverse-biased second breakdown is a major concern. Because a \"safe area of operation\" in the reverse-biased mode can be established by this test, reliable circuits can be designed for such applications as high-speed inverters, solenoid drivers, servo controls, and UHF class C power amplifiers. Life-test results have proven this test procedure to be a dependable and consistent method for establishing a \"safe area of operation\" for transistors. Illustrations of the new RCA second-breakdown equipment based on the research described are presented."
"A thermal feedback model is presented for the analytical definition of the ASO (Area of Safe Operation) for transistors in switching operations. This area is narrowed by the \"second breakdown in p-n junction,\" and the approximate representation of the breakdown threshold is presented. This model consists of a forward and feedback energy flow with gains A and B, respectively.A = V_{CE} \\times M, B = K \\times \\theta \\times \\alpha_{R} \\times I_{e}. Therefore, the condition of the breakdown can be introduced as1 - AB = 0, whereMis the current multiplication factor, θ is transient thermal resistance,Kis a newly introduced current concentration factor, and αRis the temperature coefficient of Ie. Experimental results are also reported for a germanium alloy type transistor."
"The analysis of second breakdown in transistor is very difficult when one takes into account the distributed nature of the transistor and the complex interactions of the charge carriers with the crystal lattice and with the various electric fields within the transistor. A simple model has been developed which can be analyzed in detail in terms of lumped transistor parameters. The model treats the transistor as though it consisted of two separate but interacting parts coupled thermally and electrically. All anomalous portions of the transistor are lumped into one of these. The relative importance of each of the initiating mechanisms which have been hypothesized for second breakdown can now be determined. This paper presents a static analysis of the model. Static current-voltage characteristics are calculated for some of the hypothesized initiating mechanisms. The effect of the current dependence of current gain, the effect of the temperature dependence of the collector saturation current, and the effects of avalanche multiplication and its dependence on free charge carrier density will be discussed. It is concluded that all of these effects are important, but that one or more will tend to dominate, depending on the transistor structure type of defects present, and the mode of operation."
"The mechanism of single-hole and propagating breakdown is investigated in metal-oxide-silicon capacitors with nonshorting breakdown, the substrate resistivity varying from 10-3to 103Ω-cm. Magnitude of destruction of single-hole breakdowns and duration of breakdown event depend strongly on polarity and resistivity of file substrate and the duration varies from nano- to microseconds. Average temperature of the metal on breakdown was found spectroscopically to be 4000 to 4500°K. Breakdown starts on electric field induced thermal instability at a flaw in the dielectric and a hole is evaporated through oxide and metal. In continuation, the capacitor discharges into the flaw, causing relatively large destruction in the metal. Duration of breakdown process could be estimated in samples in which, on breakdown, no impact ionization occurs in the silicon. Destruction is due to joule heat and arc action; current densities approaching 1010A/cm2were observed. Magnitude of destruction was calculated for varying voltages, polarities, and types of substrates, and reasonable agreement was found with observed magnitudes. Table VI summarizes variation of breakdown properties with substrate resistivity and polarity. Propagating breakdown occurs only at highest voltages. Relative to single-hole breakdown, the destruction is large and energy for destruction is supplied directly from source. Mechanisms of three types of propagating breakdowns are interpreted, those propagating at neighboring sites, those progressing by an arc, and those propagating by gas breakdown through existing breakdown holes."
"N-P-N germanium alloy (N+P) junctions were found to be much more susceptible to damage by high voltage pulses than were P-N-P transistor (P+N) junctions. The damage manifested itself as a collapse of the reverse diode characteristics and physical junction degradation. A failure mechanism involving both surface breakdown and second breakdown has been shown to account in part for the N+P junction's high susceptibility to damage. Surface treatments commonly used in device manufacture leave the P-type surface with accumulation layers and surface breakdown sites. The enhanced current concentrations at the surface breakdown sites lead to local heating with a consequent low second breakdown threshold. Minority carrier injection from the contact to the P-type base wafer was also found to contribute to the low second breakdown threshold of the N+P junction. The use of a pure indium clad base tab on N-P-N transistors resulted in a contact that suppressed the minority carrier injection and raised the second breakdown threshold."
"The author of the above-named work, which appeared on pages 268-275 of the February, 1966, issue of these Transactoins has called to the attention of the Editor corrections to equations (1), (12), (15), (16), (18), (24) and additional fixes needed to pages 271, 273 (Fig 7.) , and 271 (25b)."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"Models are derived for a four-terminal field-effect transistor (FTFET) with an arbitrary (one-dimensional) impurity distribution. The models apply for both four-terminal and conventional three-terminal devices operated in either the pinch-off or nonpinch-off modes; moreover, they describe behavior when either large or small signals are applied to the gates. The model parameters can be determined either from terminal measurements or from knowledge of the physical make-up. Because an arbitrary impurity distribution is assumed in their derivation, the models represent devices made with any of the common fabrication techniques. Measured step-function response of epitaxial, single-diffused and double-diffused FTFET's shows good agreement with calculated behavior for broad ranges of resistive source and load terminations."
"Germanium avalanche photodiodes, providing gain at microwave frequencies, have been fabricated and tested. The diodes employ a guard ring structure to achieve a uniform, microplasma-free, multiplying region with an active diameter of 40 microns. Low-frequency chopped light current gains of greater than 200, and small-signal 6 GHz current gains of greater than 10 have been obtained at room temperature for a carrier wavelength of 1.15 microns. In the normal operating range, the signal output power is found to vary as the square of the multiplication, and the noise is found to vary as the cube of the multiplication. This limits the maximum useful multiplication of the diode to that level which gives a diode noise equal to the receiver noise. A small-signal equivalent circuit with lumped elements corresponding to the physical processes occurring within the diode, is introduced to describe the small signal behavior. The model is valid over the entire multiplication range, up to frequencies of about 10 GHz."
"Approximate analytical solutions are obtained for symmetrical p-n junctions which provide the range of bias for constant quasi-Fermi potentials across the transition region under forward bias and small reverse bias. The solutions also show that the variations of the quasi-Fermi potentials are essentially complete in the transition region for large reverse bias. The actual spatial dependences are computed numerically for the step junction case, using the parabolic potential as first approximation and applied junction voltage as the parameter, and are graphed. Numerical calculations and curves are also made in this case for the total change of the quasi-Fermi potentials across the transition region as a function of bias voltage, with the barrier height as a parameter. These confirm the commonly adopted assumption that the quasi-Fermi potentials are essentially constant across the transition region for small bias."
"Consideration is given to the problems associated with the use of an insulated gate to obtain depletion in the channel of a field-effect transistor. It is shown that if an inversion layer forms at the insulator semiconductor interface before the channel is completely depleted complete pinch-off of drain current by the gate will not be observed. It is further shown that channel pinch-off at the drain will always occur and, hence, that drain current saturation will always be observed. A quantitative analysis based on the proposed model is performed and theoretical expressions for the device behavior are derived and plotted. The analysis of the device is divided into two ranges, a high-frequency range and a low-frequency range, where the dividing frequency is the frequency response of the surface inversion layer. This dividing frequency is generally orders of magnitude lower than the upper operating frequency limit of the transistor itself. Finally, the theoretical results are compared with experiment and shown to be in good agreement."
"This paper describes thin-film MOS transistors in which the entire silicon film forms the conducting channel, not just the surface inversion layer. Single crystal silicon which is epitaxially deposited on sapphire to a thickness of 0.5 to 2.0 microns forms the channel of the field-effect transistor. The oxidations for the channel oxide were done in both steam and dry oxygen ambients resulting in very little oxide charge (0-2 × 1011cm-2) on both [111] and [100] silicon orientations. No orientation dependence was observed. The absence of an active substrate leads to device characteristics that are significantly different from MOS transistors made on thick silicon. Analysis of the output characteristics and the C-V curve of these devices enables one to study the characteristics of the silicon film and its two surfaces. It is shown that the silicon-sapphire interface region has similar characteristics to the silicon-silicon dioxide interface region in its tendency to support donor sites after heating in hydrogen. To facilitate analysis of the C-V curve, two interesting relations are derived: specifically, the slope of the curve is related to the doping density of the silicon, and the 0.95 level on the normalized curve is shown to be offset approximately one volt from flat-band potential regardless of oxide thickness or doping density, provided these parameters set the normalized flat-band capacitance significantly below 0.95. The use of thin high resistivity p-type films allows one to fabricate p-type enhancement transistors which exhibit a low threshold voltage due to the fact that the silicon surface does not have to be inverted before the channel conducts. Finally, partial-gate deep depletion transistors are examined and it is shown that a substantial increase in drain breakdown voltage may be obtained with thiss geometry."
"The temperature dependence of MOS transistor characteristics in the region below saturation is studied theoretically and experimentally. The variation of channel conductance with temperature is shown to be due to the variation of the threshold voltage and of the inversion layer mobility. Both variations can be predicted in reasonable agreement with experimental observations. It is shown that the role of fast surface states in determining the temperature dependence is negligible."
"An investigation is carried out of unexpected electrical oscillations generated across germanium crystals which are subjected to strong electric fields; the latter are obtained by the application of a current pulse through a small area metallic electrode. The oscillations are found to be of electromechanical nature; i.e., it is shown that the electrical oscillations are accompanied with mechanical oscillations of the same frequency and, furthermore, that the latter have a definite phase relation with the former. The frequency of oscillation is identified as the mechanical natural frequency of vibration of the crystal-electrode combination. The electromechanical coupling in germanium is found to be due to a large electrostrictive property of this crystal. The electro-mechanical regenerative path responsible for the generation of oscillation is postulated to be due to the elastroresistance effect in germanium. Finally an electromechanical equivalent circuit for this novel device, called henceforth the electrostrictor, is derived predicting most of its experimentally observed characteristics."
"Using impact ionization rates of Moll et al. [23] and Lee et al. [24], the avalanche breakdown voltages of diffused silicon p-n junctions were calculated by assuming an error function diffused impurity distribution. The theoretical results were verified experimentally with samples having breakdown voltages ranging from 100 volts to 9000 volts. Good agreement was found between the experimental breakdown voltages and those calculated with the data of Moll et al. This was seen even at high breakdown voltages where the ionizing fields were far lower than those for which ionization rates have been quoted."
"Recent developments in high-quality silicon varactors for low-noise parametric amplifiers and high-efficiency harmonic generators necessitate the use of epitaxial silicon layers that are thinner than 10 microns, with resistivity less than 1 Ω-cm. This paper extends Breitschwerdt's recent calculations [1] to such thin epitaxial layers, and also includes the calculation of series resistance and capacitance per unit area in a range useful for microwave diode design. A planar geometry for the junction has been assumed. The impurity distribution of the in-diffusion from the surface and the out-diffusion from the substrate are assumed to be complementary error functions. Depletion layer characteristics of the p-n junction-- including junction depth, impurity gradient at the junction, depletion layer width, capacitance per unit area, and avalanche breakdown voltage--are predicted for various epitaxial layer resistivities. The capacitance per unit area at breakdown is also presented in graphical form. Series resistance has been obtained by numerical integration of various impurity distributions. Zero-bias cutoff frequency for various layer thicknesses is presented graphically as a function of junction depth and breakdown voltage. The calculations predict that there are optimum diffusion conditions for maximum cutoff frequency and for maximum breakdown voltage with a given epitaxial layer thickness. They indicate that the optimum zero-bias cutoff frequency is nearly inversely proportional to the thickness of the epitaxial layer. For instance, the maximum cutoff frequency of a junction in a 2-µ layer can exceed 600 GHz compared with 300 GHz in a 4-µ layer, and 140 GHz in an 8-µ layer. Calculated and experimentally determined characteristics show reasonably good agreement."
"A research and development program resulted in fabrication of high-capacitance voltage-variable capacitance diodes for electronic tuning. Devices were fabricated by epitaxial and planar technology, with the diode prepared by diffusion into n-type silicon to approximate an abrupt junction. Objective specifications required devices with capacitance of 250 pF and 1000 pF (-8V), breakdown voltageV_{(BR)} > 200V, capacitance change ratio of > 5.6 (-4 to -200 V), and quality factorQ > 200(10 MHz). The principal problem was theV_{(BR)}limitation of planar diodes, which results in part from the tendency of thermally oxidized n-type Si to form an accumulation layer in the Si at the Si-SiO2interface. The planar process was refined to achieve large-area 200-V planar diodes, while maintaining the other essential diode characteristics, by the introduction of modifications to lower the electrical field of the p-n junction at the surface. Both structural modifications and processing changes were found to result in an increase in the level ofV_{(BR)}of planar diodes."
"Measurements on a degenerate UHF photoparametric amplifier using an optical signal modulated at 690 MHz have confirmed the 3 dB noise figure predicted by Penfield and Sawyer. The silicon photoparametric diode served as both the photodetector and varactor and was novel in several respects: the conductivity sequence was p-v-n-n+in contrast to the usual p-v-n+conventionally used for microwave photodiodes; and the diode was designed to be illuminated parallel to the p-v junction. Such a structure has an inherently high Q and features are extended optical response (quantum efficiency ≈ 10 percent at 1.06 µ), coupled with good UHF photodetection behavior, when used either as a simple (unpumped) photodiode or as a photoparametric diode."
"Current limiters based on the high-field saturation of electron-drift velocity in germanium have been fabricated by making two closely spaced ohmic contacts to a surface n-layer diffused into Ge. In operation, current flows from contact to contact through the n-layer. Current saturation begins at a voltageV_{s} = E_{s} d, where d is the contact spacing and Esis the field for saturation of electron drift velocity. Generally, in order to work at reasonable signal levels (volts and milliamperes) a structure small in all dimensions is required. A diffused-layer structure provides a convenient way of meeting this requirement and, at the same time, has, first, a high surface-to-volume ratio which facilitates heat removal and, second, a p-n junction which minimizes conductivity modulation by removing avalanche-generated holes. Limiters withd \\cong 2µ, and 10 µ × 10 µ contacts, were fabricated on Sb-diffused layers of 103-Ω sheet resistance and ∼1017cm-3surface concentration. Limiting current was ∼2.5 mA and limiting extended from ∼2 to 16 V. The conductance in the limiting range was ∼40 µmho and a contact-to-contact capacitance was ∼0.1 pF."
"Monolithic silicon mosaics of photosensor elements have been developed for solid-state imaging applications. The physical structure, design considerations, and performance characteristics of these electrooptical devices as applied to image converter applications are discussed. The sensing monolith consists of a square 50 by 50 mosaic of phototransistor elements on 0.010 inch centers which are interconnected both by internally diffused strips and by vapor deposited surface bars. FiftyXand fiftyYexternal leads provide access to any individual elementX_{b}Y_{a}of the mosaic. Fabrication of this 2500 element mosaic involves the techniques of planar passivation, epitaxial growth, solid-state diffusion, and thin-film vacuum evaporation. A discussion of sensor operation includes mechanisms of phototransistor action, electrooptical conversion efficiency, and element-to-element crosstalk minimization. An evaluation of the electrooptical transfer characteristics of the mosaic sensor elements are presented. Uniformity of element response is typically better than 85% for response within a 3 : 1 range and 75% for response within a 2 : 1 range. Several shades of gray can be imaged simultaneously. The mosaic dynamic range extends over 3.5 orders of incident illumination energy or five orders of output photocurrent. The minimum and maximum detectable signals are approximately 10.0 nW and 1.0 roW, respectively. Sensitivity is of the order of 102to 103µA/mW in the linear portion of the transfer curve."
"An accelerated aging technique--restricted to P-16 phosphor--that measures a cathode-ray tube screen degradation with use is described. A small area of the screen is aged at high excitation densities and the light output from this area is plotted as a function of deposited charge per unit area. A pre-aged part of the screen is used as a reference level for measuring these light output levels. Measurements made to determine phosphor aging with cathode-ray tube operating modes are described. Aging is found invariant with spot focus, beam voltage, beam current, power density per unit area, and sweep speed over normal operating ranges. Deposited charge per unit area is confirmed as the dominant stress factor. Under restricted operating conditions, the data is reproducible within ±4 percent at the 95 percent confidence level. Aging rates accelerated by a factor of more than a thousand as compared to normal usage have been obtained."
"The efficiency of photodetection and guidelines for its improvement can be determined by an analysis of the photodetection process. In this paper, the effects of interference within a reflecting-translucent photocathode are studied. Equations to describe the efficiency of generating photoelectrons by optical absorption of narrow-band light are developed, analyzed, and solved numerically using the IBM 7094 computer. The collection efficiency, the quantum yield, and the percent absorption have been evaluated as functions of 1) the thickness of the emitter, 2) the absorption coefficient, 3) the incident wavelength, 4) the electron diffusion depth, and 5) the refractive index of the photodetection medium. Graphs have been drawn which relate the variance of these three functions with the incident wavelength at constant emitter thickness and with the emitter thickness at constant wavelength, respectively. Minima and maxima, corresponding to destructive and constructive interference, occur alternately at emitter optical thicknesses of λ/4, λ/2, 3λ/4, and λ, respectively. It is found that only when the absorption coefficient is low (≤ .0013/Å) will interference phenomena enhance the quantum yield above that obtained due to absorption for reasonable thickness."
"The propagation of slow electrokinetic waves on finite electron beams which fill a conducting tunnel is discussed for modes of axial symmetry. In addition to the familiar space-charge modes, a pair of modes exists which are related to the vortex frequency (\\omega_{\\upsilon} = \\omega_{c} - 2\\theta_{0}). The finite magnetic field introduces a coupling between these modes. A set of four orthogonal modes can be derived by the use of matrix transformations, thus eliminating the necessity of solving a complicated characteristic equation. For infinitely high magnetic fields, the two additional modes disappear and the four modes reduce to the fast and slow space-charge waves."
"The general solution of the electron trajectory equation in a periodic magnetic field is derived in the form of series expansion, assuming laminar electron flow and small perturbation. It is concluded that if the cathode is not very heavily immersed in a magnetic field, beam focusing by a periodic magnetic field would be almost equivalent to that by a uniform magnetic field except near the unstable region. Under these restrictions, each focusing system would give almost the same beam ripple (in magnitude and phase) under the same injection conditions into the focusing system. It is also found that the first stable region of beam perturbation in the periodic magnetic field becomes narrower as the flux threading the cathode increases or the period of the magnetic field decreases, as far as linearization of the path equation is possible."
"A discrete mathematical model is derived for the case of a thin infinite planar electron beam injected with symmetry between two parallel semi-infinite plane conductors separated by a distance d and joined by a third equipotential plane through which the beam is injected. The computer model is first shown correctly to reproduce the calculable space-asymptotic beam velocity for subcritical perveance and is then employed to simulate the dynamic behavior accompanying operation beyond critical perveance. Rejection of a fraction of the injected charge is shown to be an essential feature of this mode of operation, and the oscillating potential minimum is seen to exist at a distance less thandfrom the injection plane. A relatively simple modification of the model portrays the unstable behavior of a terminated beam only6dlong. Longitudinal potential profiles for this terminated beam are plotted at selected points in time. Oscillation frequency at a given supercritical perveance is noted to be an inverse function of transit time defined with respect to any chosen stable perveance and beam length in units ofd."
"A detailed analysis of the magnetic-field configurations in periodic focusing structures and new knowledge related to the design of permanent magnets which are to be used in the presence of fields of other magnets have led to the development of a new procedure for the design of periodic-permanent-magnet (ppm) focusing structures for traveling-wave tubes. With this new procedure, the ppm focusing structures can be designed very quickly, and the parameters of the structures produced will approximate the design predictions very closely. This paper describes the derivation and use of a set of design curves which have been used in the design of ppm focusing structures by the RCA Microwave Tube Operations Department for six years. It has been found that the peak axial fields of the structures produced on the basis of these design data are within five percent of the predicted values. Frequently, agreement between actual and predicted values within one percent has been observed. The design procedure requires only a few minutes time, and is applicable to any magnet material whose demagnetization curve is known. A section on the design of the soft-magnetic pole pieces (\"shims\") is also included."
"A commercially available multicavity klystron rated at 45 percent efficiency and equipped with external cavities was modified so that a dc potential could be applied across the interaction gaps. When the tube was carefully tuned, an efficiency of 60 percent was obtained; when an accelerating bias was applied across the penultimate gap of the tube, efficiencies of 66 percent were recorded without collector depression, and of over 70 percent with collector depression. In addition, applying bias to the tube made possible efficiencies in excess of 60 percent for a five to one range of power levels (for different cathode voltages). Furthermore, it was possible to apply bias to the tube in such a way that, for a constant drive level, the power output remained constant, the efficiency remained constant at over 50 percent, but the phase could be varied through more than 180°."
"The results of an experimental program with period tapering of the slow-wave structure of a traveling-wave tube which yielded a significant improvement in the efficiency of high-power TWTs are discussed. A method is outlined whereby these results may be applied to other tubes to improve efficiency. The study utilized a novel traveling-wave tube with a helical interaction structure independent of, and outside of, the vacuum envelope. This allowed the use of many different slow-wave structures with the same vacuum envelope; it resulted in fewer variables and greatly increased the number of experiments that could be performed."
"The measurement of dispersion and interaction impedance of slow-wave structures from cold tests using resonance methods is described. The theory behind the measurements is given, stressing the assumptions made. Some of the shortcomings of the simple perturbation theory of interaction impedance measurement are explained. This simple theory is then developed to take account of two complicating factors which are often tacitly ignored: transverse fields and space harmonics other than the fundamental. It is made apparent that where these complications exist a reliable estimate of the interaction impedance can be made only if an approximate theory of the structure is available. Experimental details are given, including common difficulties and, where possible, methods of surmounting them."
"Experiments involving aluminium foil damage tests and a simulated grid structure were performed in order to relate such tests to the minimum energy required to damage the grid structure of a type A-15186C tube. In the case of foil tests conducted in air, it was shown that the energy in a particular fault is related to the foil hole size and is in close agreement with engineering calculations and published data. In a vacuum arc gap the damage is much less than indicated by the air foil test. The arc becomes mobile and the energy dissipation appears widespread over the surface area rather than being concentrated or anchored in a spot. (The damage or hole size was much smaller than obtained from engineering calculations.) With energies up to 100 joules and charges up to 0.25 coulombs, more than 100 pulses were required to damage simulated grid wires to the extent where breakage occurred. On a single shot basis, energies in excess of 3000 joules were required to produce damage."
"The physical size involved in the design and construction of high-power modulators introduces high inductance and stray capacitance in the circuit. Analysis shows that under normal operation any inductance between the energy source and the RF device, together with stray capacitance, produces damped oscillations after the \"turn-on\" and \"turn-off\" of the RF generator beam. Unfortunately, the need for adequate protection of the RF generator and modulator requires the introduction of an additional inductor in the circuit to limit the rate of rise of fault current. Improper placement of this inductor can also produce detrimental oscillations under fault conditions. Proper design can minimize these unwanted transients. An analysis of the circuit and the results obtained in a high-power modulator are discussed."
"Presents the cover/table of contents for the proceedings."
"Presents the back cover of this proceedings volume."
"Whatever one may think about progress in the affairs of mankind it cannot be denied that great think have happened in the recent past in science and technology, much of it a direct consequence of the invention and development of many kinds of electron devices. It is of interest to speculate on future trends and developments and the role engineers may play in it."
"The characteristics of the ocean which influence the design of electronics devices are temperature, pressure, salinity or conductivity. Problems created by these characteristics can be overcome in a variety of ways. These and many of the other parameters of the oceans are measured to enhance the oceanographer's understanding of the oceans, their processes and dynamics. There are limitations to available instruments and read-out techniques. some of which can be overcome by new instrumentation or circuits. The ocean engineer uses underwater acoustics as his primary tool for exploiting the oceans and here to there are problems. New approaches to ocean engineering like those made possible by the advent of the deep diving submarine bid to revolutionize current approaches and techniques. Some of the challenging fields which may require new devices are acoustic imaging, adaptive processing and trace element detection. The future of ocean engineering shows dynamic progress but the time scale for this progress is not clear."
"In the past, medical interest in electronics was almost exclusively restricted to researchers. Moreover, the electronics industry commonly found that successful developments stimulated by the interest of one physician frequently held little interest for other physicians. However, recent, dramatic and now firmly entrenched therapeutic successes of extracorporeal heart-lung and artificial kidney machines have brought to the general medical community an awareness and acceptance of the usefulness of engineered devices to the practice of medicine. Simple electronic devices have now begun to successfully compete with and replace traditional pharmacological therapeutic agents of the physicians and conventional scalpel blades of the surgeons. That such activity is only now in its beginnings is largely attributable to the dearth of significant engineering resources previously directed toward appropriate medical developments. The great bulk of electronic diagnostic and therapeutic instrunments and devices that medicine requires have yet to appear. Many of these developments await the appearance of suitable special purpose components and materials. Medical care is a big business (over $36 billion in 1965). The expanding population, its progressively aging character and the emergence of adequate medical care as a human right to be guaranteed by government, make it a true growth industry, relatively independent of the exigencies of economic cycles and political affairs. The Technical requirements and economics of instruments and devices which the medical community requires will be discussed. The role and significance of government activity in this field will be assessed."
"A generalized nonlinear electron-wave interaction theory has been developed for the crossed-field emitting-sole amplifier in order to explain the physical phenomena involved in the interaction and ultimately to provide a basis for design. The effects of d-c, r-f and space-charge forces are taken into account and secondary emission from the sole electrode is included in the theory. Solution of the system equations on a digital computer involves following a set of N change groups through the interaction region using electron phase position and interaction length as the independent variables. Representative solutions for various d-c and r-f conditions will be presented in terms of the variation of electron generalized coordinates (positions and velocities) and r-f wave variables (amplitude and phase) vs. interaction distance in electronic wavelengths. Operation above and below the magnetron cutoff condition will be discussed and the effects of space charge secondary emission on the saturated gain and conversion efficiency will be illustrated. In addition a closed-form analysis (HKB) has been used to gain better insight into the interaction process. This will be discussed along with the use of nonuniform magnetic field distributions to enhance the saturation gain."
"This paper describes the design and operating characteristics of self-modulated, forward wave, non-reentrant, cold cathode, distributed-emission crossed-field amplifiers. These amplifiers possess the high efficiency, high peak and average power capability, broad bandwidth and excellent phase characteristics. In addition, becatLse they are non-reentrant, they are completely self-modulated. Only a single dc power supply is needed. The self-modulating feature, combined wiih cold cathode operation, results in the simplest possible amplifier-power supply combination. In addition, these features place no modulator limitation on the variety of pulse trains which can be amplified."
"Computer experiments on conventional magnetrons have shown that the space-charge spokes are very narrow compared to their spacing, and therefore possess a high harmonic content. To couple out one of the harmonics, one has to tune the anode block so that its π-mode resonates at the fundamental frequency and the harmonic frequency desired, which has been found possible in scaled-up physical experiments. The measured impedance of the unloaded (high Q) fundamental and a low Q impedance in the third harmonic were programmed into further computer experiments with the encouraging result that the new loading conditions do not severely change the sharpness of the spokes, and that an overall efficiency as high as 28 percent can be achieved in third harmonic generation."
"The purpose of this paper is to present some theoretical and experimental results on noise transport in crossed-field devices which utilize Kino type electron guns. The noise characteristics of several types of guns are compared and the results contribute to a better understanding of the various problems associated with noise in injected-beam crossed-field devices. The Monte Carlo method is used to simulate random electron emission from the cathode in terms of so-called \"big electrons.\" The big electrons are randomly generated at the cathode at prescribed times according to a Poisson distribution A half-Maxwellian distribution is assumed for the normal velocity component and a full-Maxwellian distribution for the tangential velocity component."
"This paper describes the significant results obtained from a two-year development of an injected-beam, high-power crossed-field amplifier with the following general characteristics: Frequency Band: 350- 1100 Mc CW Output Power: 1 - 2 Kilowatts Low Level Gain: 25 db Saturated Gain: 14.5 ± 1.3 db Of particular interest is a detailed description of the following: 1. A rectangular helix slow-wave structure wound from hollow tubing which is directly cooled. 2. The addition of periodic perturbations to the helix to create a stop band about π phase shift with 35 db insertion loss to suppress backward wave and π-mode oscillations. 3. An inductively coupled, segmented sole structure designed as a strip-line low pass filter with an upper cut-off frequency of 150 Mc. Reduced fast mode coupling in conjunction with a severed helix results in greater than 60 db isolation between input and output couplers. 4. The effect of drive power, beam current and other parameters on the helix current and on the reduction of harmonic content which results from the nonlinear CFA gain characteristics. 5. The predicted gain variation over the 3:1 band-width is experimentally verified. Uniform gain is the result of balancing the greater number of wavelengths at the high end of the band with reduced beam impedance. 6. The present status of relased programs, with the objective of scaling the basic slow-wave structure for higher frequency, octave bandwidth operation with no sacrifice in output power."
"An X-band, dc operated, forward wave, crossed-field amplifier has been developed utilizing a helix coupled vane structure as the slow wave circuit. The amplifier, designed for phased array applications, is contained in a 6-inch diameter magnetically shielded package 10.5 inches long, weighing 26.5 pounds. This tube uses an emitting sole and a debunched reentrant electron stream. Debunching is accomplished in a drift space located between input and output waveguide matching sections. THe tube is operated from a dc power supply. Cathode current flow is initiated by the RF input signal and is turned off at the end of the RF drive pulse by the application of a short voltage pulse to a turn off electrode."
"The F.E. Tube is a three-electrode device in which a short hollow beam of electrons is modulated by varying the voltage of an electrode (gate) which surrounds the beam. An axial magnetic field prevents the beam from spreading and touching the gate Electrical characteristics are similar to those of a pentode. A very low knee voltage is possible with a tilted collector which reflects slow electrons towards the non-emitting part of the cathode."
"The mode of operation of the cesium vapor, thermionic diode which is most important for energy conversion is presently the ignited mode. Theoretical understanding of the ignited mode diode has recently experienced considerable development. This theoretical development and its experimental basis will be reviewed briefly and a coherent interpretation presented for observed ignited mode, thermionic converter phenomena. The basis was laid for the present theoretical progress by the following important experimental developments: Emitter heat balance studies have given valuable information concerning plasma phenomena in the region of the emitter. Probe measurements have shown the type of potential distributions to be expected in the ignited mode. Spectroscopic studies have resulted in measurements of plasma density and electron temperature distributions. Finally, sophisticated diodes have provided volt ampere characteristics which are relatively free of extraneous effects."
"The present capabilities of thermionic converters are described, and their potential is evaluated in terms of the performance improvement based on the present understanding of the process. A discussion is included of several techniques expected to improve the power output and the efficiency of converters in the near future. A variable-parameter research converter is described. Typical types of data obtained from such a device are examined to evaluate its performance. The dependence of the volt-ampere characteristics on various converted parameters is analyzed. The discussion includes the maxima and minima that appear in the output charactecistics because of the interdependencies of converted parameters."
"A series of experiments have been performed with a plane-parallel cesium plasma diode on the influence of interelectrode spacing, electrode temperature, and cesium pressure on the characteristics of a low energy cesium vapor plasma. Steady-state measurements have been made of the diode current versus spacing at constant voltage, diode voltage versus spacing at constant current and the dependence of the diode characteristics at various spacing on the temperatures of the emitter, collector, and cesium reservoir. AC sweep measurements also were made of the diode volt-ampere characteristics about several steady-state operating points. These measurements provide accurate parametric data for applications to the design of a cesium vapor converter employing rhenium electrodes. The data also provide a family of parametric curves which display the important characteristics of a low energy cesium vapor plasma and its behavior in different plasma modes."
"It is well known that impurities in silicon interact with radiation-induced vacancies to produce complexes which are stable at room temperature. For example, there are the vacancy-oxygen and vacancy-phosphorus centers produced in n-type silicon by electron irradiation. These centers modify the electrical properties of the material, primarily by decreasing the minority-carrier lifetime. Consequently, when devices such as solar cells are irradiated, the characteristics of the device are severely degraded. This talk will present evidence that when lithium is used as the dominant impurity in silicon, the production of recombination centers is reduced. This results in solar cells with an improved radiation resistance. This study has been performed on solar cells with the diffused p on n-type base configuration. It was found that under certain conditions the use of lithium in the above cell has led to a radiation resistance to 1 MeV electrons superior to even standard n-on-p solar cells, heretofore, the most radiations-resistant cell."
"The prime purpose of this investigation was to develop a self-powered system which provides either heating or ventilating for a man operating in extreme climatic environments or enemy imposed hazards. The electrical power required to perform this function is supplied by a thermoelectric energy conversion. The thermoelectric power is unique in that it is forced convection cooled, completely self-powered, operates from liquid fuels, and used bismuth-telluride as the thermoelectric energy conversion material. The overall system is man portable and contains fuel for eight hours operation in a manually pressurized fuel tank, allowing operation in any position. The 15.7 lb. fully fueled system delivers 18 c.f.m, of air at 4 in. static water pressure or 28 watts of net d-c electrical power to an external load. The air delivered by the system is capable of being temperature regulated from 150°F to 5°F above the ambient conditions."
"The photovoltaic response of silicon carbide p-n junctions has been used for the detection of ultraviolet radiation at high temperatures. The wavelength at which peak response occurs is dependent on the junction depth. With junction depths of ten microns and one micron, the wavelengths at peak response are near 3800Å and 2850Å respectively at room temperature. The wavelength at peak response increases by 0.4 to 0.7Å/deg and the photovoltage of the detector decreases with increasing temperatures. However, a number of detectors have open circuit photovoltages up to 100 mV at 800°K. As the wavelength of the incident radiation increases to near the band edge of silicon carbide, the photovoltage of the shallow junction devices becomes non-detectable. Both the peak wavelength as a function of junction depth and the variation of the peak wavelength with temperature can be quantitatively explained by considering the wavelength dependence of the absorption coefficient in silicon carbide below the band edge."
"The design, construction, and test of 5 kw, 40 kw, and 0.3 kw hydrazine-air fuel cell systems are discussed. Light weight and compact cell stack components were developed to meet cell stack goals of 16 pounds/kw and 0.25 cu.ft./kw. Militarized silent power sources of 300 watts and 5 kw, 28 volt d.c. were constructed. Test restLlts are discussed. The results prove that compact, silent, hydrazine-air fuel cell power sources are capable of field Army use and yield specific power densities in excess of 100 watt hours/lb."
"An NPπP silicon avalanche photodiode with an NπP guardring is described. The diode was designed for high-frequency operation in the visible and near infrared spectrum and was fabricated on epitaxial material using standard silicon planar techniques. The active avalanche region is 10 mils in diameter and the depletion layer width determined by the epitaxial layer is 4.7 microns. The diode is mounted in a microwave pill package, that allows for easy application in coaxial connectors or printed circuit boards. Measurements of the low frequency noise characteristics show them to be in agreement with the theory of McIntyre. For avalanche gain, M, less than 100 the noise power increases with M to the 2.4 power. For larger gains there is a more rapid increase in the noise. Noise measurements at one GHz show the same slope of 2.4 on the noise power versus dc gain curve at M up to 100. At gains above this the diode gain-bandwidth product (100 GHz) limits the noise power to a slope of 1. Gains up to 200 were observed at low frequencies without the presence of excessive noise due to microplasmas. Calculations show the diode in a typical system would have an N.E.P. of 10-12WHZ-1/2, for a one GHz bandwittt and an avalanche gain of 30."
"Conventional pn homojunction photodetectors when used as microwave modulation detectors suffer from a disadvantage inherent in its construction, namely, the need for a top layer either p- or n-type. To reduce the absorption of the incident light in this layer, the junction must be located close to the surface with consequent degradation due to surface effects. Also, the diffusion effects reduce the speed of response."
"An AM-FM detector is described which makes use of the photodielectric effect to optically tune a microwave oscillator. The device operates at cryogenic temperatures where the photodielectric effect dominates the photoconductive effect in semiconductors such as germanium and silicon. The device is an improvement over the photoconductive detector in several respects although the change in polarization due to photo-induced free charge is derived from the complex photoconductivity. The device consists of an amplifier and a superconducting resonant cavity having a quarter-wave stub terminated in a semiconductor wafer. The unloaded cavities have Q's in excess of 107which provides the oscillator with exceptional short-term stability. The bandwidth is limited by the lifetime of carriers which is typically one nanosecond or less. Other factors limiting the frequency response are the loaded Q and the time required for a disturbance to propagate around the loop. The sensitivity is proportional to lifetime. Response of 20 Cps per microwatt for high resistivity germanium at 787 Mc/sec. is typical where the source is a GaAs injection diode. The photodielectric detector is shown to surpass those operating in the absorption mode over a wide frequency range."
"Planar and beam lead technologies have been successfully combined in GaAs for the first time with the batch fabrication of four by four matrix arrays of electroluminescent diodes. The diodes are Zn-diffused on 10 mil centers with Zn-masking being provided by a composite structure of thermally deposited SiO2and phosphosilicate glass layers. The deposit of a continuous layer of-SiO2after pattern definition but before Zn diffusion minimizes both the lateral diffusion ard the high leakage current that can occur in deep-diffused GaAs planar structures. Beam lead technology is used for contacting both the n and p regions on the same side of the GaAs slice. After the back is polished to a final slice thickness of less than 2 mils, the arrays are etched out, with the beam leads acting as structural and electrical bridges across the etched out areas. Quantum efficiencies for light emitted through the backs of the units are typically 0.2% with excellent uniformity from diode to diode. Array yields are such that larger arrays are considered to be feasible. The arrays show considerable promise both for switching and for memory applications."
"Light emitting GaAs diodes will be described which differ from standard ones insofar as the p-n junction is completely solution regrown and amphoterically doped. The amphoteric dopant Si is the dominant impurity on both sides of the junction giving rise to a highly compensated p region. The light emitting region is extremely wide up to 50 microns. The energy of the emitted light is less than the band gap of GaAs at 300°K. The most important feature of these diodes is that their external quantum efficiencies are much higher than those of the standard type diodes having comparable optical geometries. Values as high as 6% have been measured at 300°K when an anti-reflecting coat was applied to the 4 cleaved sides of a diode shaped to the form of a parallelepiped. Without the coating, the external quantum efficiency was 3.7% for this particular diode. Values, close to 3% for uncoated end faces are quite commonly found. Comparable values for standard Zn doped diodes of similar structures are approximately 1%."
"It will be shown that a phototransistor possesses all the necessary requirements to operate in a photon flux integration mode; i.e. 1) a storage element, 2) a nearly ideal switch, and 3) a current source which depends on incident illumination level. The technique for realizing this mode of operation with a phototransistor and the resulting performance will be described. It will be shown that the signal charge will be enhanced by the gain of the transistor over that available from a comparable photodiode operated in the same mode. The simplicity of the structure permits fabrication of monolithic integrated arrays of closely spaced detectors without the need for electrical isolation, either with a dielectric or a junction. As a result a fundamental restriction on spacing density has been eliminated. Also, the restrictions imposed on spectral range and sensitivity by an isolation have been eliminated. Both linear and two-dimensional arrays may be fabricated using this structure. Sampling techniques will be described for a two-dimensional array which eliminates both crosstalk and the need of multiple load resistors for signal recovery."
"Ohmic contacts were developed for GaAs devices, such as transistors and Gunn oscillators. Contacts had to meet the following requirements: 1) they must be ohmic to both low and high resistivity n-and p-type GaAs, 2) they must contact both"
"The fabrication of a diode in a one-step epitaxial deposition-diffusion is described. The simple, low cost manufacture yields a self-passivated device of high performance. A low resistivity substrate wsfer is overlaid with a relatively thin epitaxial layer of the same impurity type and the proper resistivity. Oxide is grown or deposited over this and circular windows are cut. When the wafer + oxide sandwich is subjected to an epitaxial deposition of silicon containing a high density of impurities of the opposite type, single crystalline silicon forms over the oxide window and polycrystalline silicon forms elsewhere. In addition, since the deposited material has many more impurities per volume element than the original epitaxy, diffusion occurs during the deposition process. Finally, the deposited polycrystalline material is etched into a mesa down to the oxide layer and a large metallic button formed. Diodes are separated by conventional scribe and break, or by etch separation."
"This paper describes the fabrication, the electrical characteristics, and the aging behavior of silicon planar transistors with silicon nitride as a junction seal. The junction seal prevents device degradation due to sodium contamination."
"The tunnel emission triode has been developed after research on the tunnel emission diode. Reproducible diodes with the capability of reaching current densities over 1000 A/cm2and withstanding electric fields above 107V/cm have been made. Samples with a thin base electrode were used to study the energy distribution of tunnel emitted electrons ejected into vacuum Collector currents, of electrons emitted in vacuum, were over 350µA with transmission ratios over 0.005. The transmission ratio did not vary with emitter voltage. For collector currents above 10 mA/cm2the mean energy increases with increasing emitter voltage. At lower current levels the is about half the change in emitter voltage. At lower current levels the mean energy varies much more slowly with emitter voltage. The loss of energy by the hot electrons is consistent with the model of tunnel emission from traps in the dielectric. These samples have been operated as triodes with vacuum collectors. The characteristic curves show possible voltage gains of 10 or more for load resistances of 50,000 ohms. Triodes with solid collectors (oxide-metal) were made, and their characteristics will be discussed."
"In saturated switching circuits using junction bipolar transistors, charge-storage due to minority injection into the base and collector is undesirable in terms of switching speed. Efficiency and maximum frequency of operation of class \"D\" amplifiers using bipolar junction transistor is severely limited by storage effects. Although gold doping has been used to decrease minority carrier lifetime, hence the storage time, it is difficult to control and tends to degrade P-N junctions. A bipolar transistor with a Schottky barrier (Metal-Semiconductor Rectifying Barrier) for the collector-base junction and a P-N semiconductor junction for the emitter-base junction has been fabricated. A Schottky barrier does not inject minority carriers from the metal into the semiconductor, while carriers injected into the metal have practically zero lifetime; hence, the Schottky barrier does not exhibit storage effect. Thus, the Schottky barrier collector transistor (S.B.C.T.) does not have any significant storage time when operated in a saturated-switching mode. In addition, the collector being metallic has negligible series resistance with the result that the contribution to saturation voltage due to collector series resistance is eliminated."
"Singly resonant silicon tuning transistors have been reported. Multiresonant mechanical structures, properly constructed, can result in filters with flat passband and steep rejection slopes. We report a batch-fabricated twin cantilever RGT containing a coupling web near the clamped end. Under one beam is the electrostatic input electrode; under the other beam is the channel of the MOS detector. The beams can vibrate collectively in two modes. If the web width is adjusted properly, the two mode frequencies will be about fo/Q apart resulting in approximately flat doubly-tuned bandpass properties."
"This paper describes a tuned monolithic device which utilizes the mechanical resonance of the silicon substrate. The proposed device is compatible with monolithic technology and will operate from a few hundred cycles to tens of kilocycles."
"A combined theoretical and experimental study has been carried out on the space-charge flow in a magnetron injection gun (MIG). The theoretical analysis considers both nonrelativistic and relativistic cases and is concerned with the beam current density, perveance, axial- and rotational-kinetic energy of the electrons and relates these quantities to conditions at the cathode. An understanding of hollow beam space-charge flow has been obtained from the experimental investigation of a MIG which has been designed for maximum operating flexibility. The accelerating anode consists of six separate discs which may be biased independently thus providing a means for varying the potential distribution in the gun and suppressing or enhancing emission from any portion of the cathode. Three separate conical cathodes have been investigated with half-angles of 4, 8 and 12 degrees. The guns have been tested in an electron beam analyzer in which the beam is intercepted by a movable collector-aperture system. By varying the emission from the cathode, it has been observed that the flow is quasi-laminar. High magnetic fields were observed to alter the current density distribution but did not appreciably affect the thickness of the beam. Evaluation of the results provides a better understanding of the space-charge flow and is helpful in leading to the design of an optimum MIG configuration."
"Guns using spherical cathodes have been analyzed to establish some of their basic limitations and to determine design parameters which will maximize available beam power for a given cathode size. The two fundamental limitations for the achievable beam power are voltage breakdown and cathode loading. The voltage breakdown criterion is derived from experimental results in tubes operating in the 25 to 250 kilovolt range. These results are expressed in empirical formulas for short and long pulse and CW operation. An approximate theory is developed to account for non-uniform emission over the cathode for large values of the ratio of anode aperture to cathode-anode spacing thus covering the entire range from fully solid to essentially hollow beam guns. Choosing the normalized anode spacing and thus the preveance as the variable, maximum realizable beam power for given cathode diameter and half-angle of convergence is calculated, subject to the voltage breakdown and cathode loading limitations."
"Two new types of electrostatically focused klystrons (ESFK's) with improved performance have been developed. Refinements in the electron-optical design have resulting in a beam current transmission under full RF conditions between 80% and 90%, compared to typically 50%-60% with ESFK's of older design. Because of the reduced beam current interception, higher level of CW power can now be achieved. In addition, the thermal stability of the tubes is greatly increased."
"The paper describes an electrostatically-focused 20 to 100 watt S-band klystron amplifier for use in interplanetary spaceborne communication systems. The tube is designed for high overall efficiency and has an electronic bandwidth in excess of 30 MHz. The saturated gain is above 30 db at the 20 watt operating power level."
"A two-mile long linear accelerator has been built at Stanford University which uses 245 klystrons to produce an electron beam with an energy up to 20 GeV. Although most of the tubes used are being procured from industry, a major portion of the development work has been, and is still being, done at Stanford. We will review the important results of this work."
"In order to determine the peak power limitation of a typical klystron at short pulse lengths, several Stanford Linear Accelerator klystrons were operated at voltages above their nominal ratings. Using a marx generator to obtain short high-voltage pulses at an impedance level suitable for this experiment, the tubes were operated in the 400-kV region. Appropriate instrumentation was assembled for the measurement of voltage, current, power input, power output and related tube parameters. This paper will discuss tube characteristics, including electronic loading, gain, efficiency and peak output powers as a function of voltage in the 200- to 400-kV range. Measured small-signal characteristics of the tube are compared with computed values. Stable operation was observed at a peak output-power level at 100 MW at a 0.2-µsec pulse length. These results are a step in the direction of providing improved radar range resolution without the time-sidelobe clutter inherent in pulse compression systems."
"The feasibility of applying the log-periodic concept to microwave amplifiers has been investigated. This approach, successfully utilized in antenna design, offers the potential of greater power and bandwidth than attainable from existing uniform devices. Log-periodic devices analogous to klystron, traveling-wave, and hybrid amplifiers have been studied."
"A new mode of amplification has been established in an avalanching diode. The device is operated so as to simultaneously oscillate at a \"pump\" frequency and amplify at a lower signal frequency. The diode, while oscillating, pumps its own nonlinear impedance (which is largely reactive). Under appropriate conditions, therefore, the incident signal experiences parametric amplification."
"This paper presents theoretical and experimental investigations on p-+-n-i-n+and p+-n-n+silicon avalanche diodes at high current densities. Device and operating parameters are: Width of the n-i and n depletion layers 2-5/um, n doping concentrations 1016- 1017cm-3, current densities 103-104A/cm2. Under these conditions the space-charge of the free carriers leads to a stationary differential negative resistance. This can be seen from theoretical calculations and experimental current-voltage characteristics, if certain critical current densities are exceeded. Oscillations in the 1-2 GHz range are produced due to this mechanism; they exhibit mechanical and weak electronic tuning."
"Oscillator performance of Si avalanche diodes which have junctions of nearly-abrupt type are discussed. The maximum output power so far obtained in CW operation is 1.1w at 12 GHz with an efficiency of 7.7%. There are indications that the noise performance of a typical diode is competitive with that of a hyperabrupt type diode reported by Josenhans."
"Continuous wave oscillations with fundamental frequencies from 3 to 35 Gc have been observed using Gunn effect oscillators constructed from epitaxially grown n-GaAs of various thicknesses between 4 and 40µ on n+- substrates. Device fabrication techniques will be discussed. The material used in these devices is an n++-n-n+GaAs sandwich structure prepared by epitaxial techniques. The highest CW power levels obtained to date are 65 mw at 5 Gc, 140 mw at 6.5 Gc, 110 mw at 11 Gc, 100 mw at 14 Gc, 6.5 mw at 23 Gc, and 1 mw at 35 Gc. For samples operating below 16 Gc, the efficiency ranges between 2 and 3 percent. The oscillators can be tuned approximately an octave in frequency-by the external cavity. The frequency is relatively insensitive to bias voltage: its electronic tuning sensitivity-is about 25 Mc/volt at frequencies near 14 Gc. Preliminary measurements at 6 Gc indicate a double sideband AM carrier-to-noise ratio of about 120 db and an FM noise deviation of about 20 cps rms, both measured in a 1 kc bandwidth at 100 kc from the carrier."
"The combination of many synchronized devices has been proposed as a simple way of obtaining larger amounts of coherent output power. However, the synchronous operation of many microwave oscillators is not straightforward and requires practical solutions of several problems connected with phase locking, mode selection, noise, etc. The purpose of this paper is to identify the more important problems and their solution, and to present the experimental results obtained with a 6 GHz oscillator. Using eight Si-avalanche diodes in a resistive hybrid, power-combiner, 2/3 watt of CW power has been obtained with an efficiency of 3.5 percent without any external locking signal. The carrier-to-single sideband noise ratio is about 100 db per one cycle bandwidth at a frequency 1 MHz away from the carrier, which is slightly better than that of the best individual oscillator. The application of a synchronizing FM signal 10 db below the oscillator output can be used for a 0.1 percent frequency deviation, with a maximum deviation from linear phase of about one degree."
"Two-stream instabilities in solid-state plasmas of semiconductors and semimetals are being investigated. These instabilities result from relative drift velocity of electrons and holes under application of an electric field, and are of interest as possible new sources in the microwave to infrared region."
"Polarity reversal with d-c bias has been obtained in hot carrier microwave diodes. These diodes, characterized by a one mil diameter junction of phosphorous-doped gold alloyed into a 4 ohm-cm silicon substrate, behave like Schottky barrier diodes under forward bias, but under small reverse bias the sensitivity goes to zero. With further negative bias the polarity or sense of the detected 1KC square-wave modulation at 9.3 GHz changes sign and the sensitivity improves, until it is within 5 to 10 db of the forward bias value."
"Experimental apparatus for determining carrier velocities by a time-of-flight technique has been constructed, and data on both holes and electrons in silicon has been obtained for E in the range 4 × 103< E < 2.5 × 104volt/cm. The experiment employs electron-hole pair generation by energetic electron bombardment to inject a plane of carriers at one edge of a reverse-biased pin junction diode. Observation of the resulting transient diode carrier currents and knowledge of the width of the pin depletion region allows the direct determination of carrier velocity over a wide range of diode reverse bias."
"This paper describes an image-mosaic and an electronic scanning structure with active mosaic elements that serves to convert images with various sources of illumination energy into real-time television pictures. The basic operation is explained, and, a first-order analysis of the key devices and of the system is made. Application to sonic images in water is examined in some detail. The HYDRACON system takes advantage of modern electronic techniques, including fiber electronics, micro-electronics and circuitry, and advanced techniques for assembling precise and complicated mosaic structures. The mosaic used is in array of separate channels. Each channel has an energy transducer, amplification, demodulation, selective gating, variable storage or integration capability, and variable electronic cross-correlation. In short, the system has a generalized facility for image-processing. The transduced one-to-one mapping becomes a potential-field image, which is scanned by an electron beam in television-camera fashion to produce a conventional video signal. In addition to the discussion of the current state-of-the-art, some projection of the technique is made into the future."
"An electro-optical correlator system may use a two-dimensional real time varying optical image as one of the correlator inputs. A second input is a real time varying voltage comprising the desired correlated signal plus a random or noise signal. The correlator tube multiplies these signals together and integrates the product for a time period of the order of one second. The read out of the integrated signal will contain only the correlated component of the input signal."
"The operation of direct-view bistable storage tubes is generally explained in terms of secondary emission at the target. The maximum stored-writing speed is determined by the current density of the primary beam, the target capacity, and the secondary emission properties of the target. Since these quantities are known or can be measured, the maximum stored-writing speed can be estimated. In MgO = doped phosphor targets used in certain bistable storage tubes, stored-writing speeds were observed which were too fast to be explained by simple secondary emission. Storage speeds increased with MgO content and target porosity. These observations led to speculation on the possibility of charge-multiplication occurring within the target because of a field-dependent secondary-electron multiplication process. This paper presents the results of a series of experiments undertaken to detect and measure charge-multiplication in certain storage targets. The method involved pulsing the writing gun and viewing gun of a storage tube in sequence and measuring the resultant charge-transients in the target circuit. Target-gain was determined by comparing the total primary charge with the charge delivered by the flood gun in restoring the surface potential. Charge-multiplication was observed in certain targets using this technique, and maximum gain factors in the range 10 to 100 were measured in various samples. Target-gain was dependent primarily on the voltage across the storage layer and increased rapidly as this voltage was raised above the first crossover potential of the target material. The gain was relatively independent of primary-beam voltage over the range 0.5 to 3 kV."
"The use of a scanning electron microscope to produce selective, stable, and reversible charge storage in the oxide layer of an MOS transistor is discussed. Electron beam switching of MOST structures from a conducting state to a nonconducting state is described. Electron bombardment of small areas of the gate electrode, typically 5 micrometers × 5 micrometers, allows storage of many bits of information on a single three-terminal MOST. The information can be read out in a nondestructive manner. By extension of the memory operation, it is possible to perform computer logic functions with a single MOST and a small diameter electron beam. Time constants associated with electron-beam charge storage are of the order of 30ms., while discharge time constants are typically 5ms. The relationship of the charge storage phenomena to the gate voltage during electron bombardment, the electron beam voltage and current, and the geometry of the MOST are discussed. A simple roodel for the charging phenomena is presented. The use of electron beam bombardment of MOST's after fabrication to adjust the threshold voltage of different devices on a single wafer is described."
"An all-solid-state line-scan camera system is being developed, designed primarily for automatic picture taking in meteorological earth satellites where space vehicle motion provides the second direction of scan. To achieve the required resolution, the sensor panel contains 500 individual photoconductive sensor elements arranged in a single line of 2.54cm length."
"A complete heat-balance is given for a unique tripod-supported cathode which is presently being used in special-purpose Image Orthicons, Vidicons, and other camera tubes. Design curves are given in terms of system parameters such as shape factors, conductivities, emissivities, heater-to-lead length ratios, and radiation-shield spacings. Typical data on cathode emission vs. heater-power input are given. Filament design curves are given in terms of surge current, wire diameter, wire length, operating temperature, voltage, and power, for pure tungsten, 3% and 20% rhenium tungsten."
"A novel gun structure for modulation of a cathode-ray beam with frequencies from dc to 12 GHz has, been developed. The paper describes the new design and presents performance data. The new gun is the result of the extension of work most recently reported on in a paper entitled \"Nanosecond Beam Intensification for Cathode-Ray Tubes\" in the March, 1966, issue of IEEE Transactions on Electron Devices. Essentially, the gun consists of a 50-ohm coaxial structure in which the cathode and a modulating grid are arranged to form part of the inner and outer conductor, respectively. The gun can be used with conventional magnetic or electrostatic focusing and deflection systems."
"A major problem in the design of low-power integrated circuits occurs in the need for high-value resistors occupying a small area. Another problem area exists in the need for active devices capable of operation at extremely low current levels. This paper consists largely of an attack upon these problems. The relative merits of various resistor structures, including the MOS resistor, are discussed, and their electrical characteristics are compared. Active device design for low-power circuit operation is also discussed, and the design of a bipolar transistor structure is described which optimizes the current gain at low current levels. Next, a process technology is described which allows MOS resistors, double-diffused planar epitaxial NPN transistors, and diffused junction isolations to be realized within the same integrated cricuit structure."
"The effects of substrate resistivity oxidation cycles on the idling current (IDSO) of n-channel MOS transistors were studied in detail. Devices were fabricated using dry thermal oxide and also pyrolytic oxide for the gate insulator. Devices made using dry thermal oxide for the gate insulator exhibited a large variation in idling current values. A normal distribution of idling current was observed for low values of substrate resistivity and pyrolytically grown gate oxide. Experiments performed show that pyrolytic oxide with phosphorus passivation exhibits a charge storage which corresponds to a surface state density in the range of 5-7 × 1011states / cm2."
"This paper describes the fabrication of stable, monolithic, enhancement-mode, N and P-channel MOS transistors (N-MOST's and P-MOST's). In recent years, stable, discrete N-MOST's and P-MOST's have been produced and marketed, but it has generally been found that the fabrication of the two devices on the same substrate led to incompatible processing steps. The major problems in pIocess compatibility have now been solved and stable complementary MOS pairs are being produced which show excellent potential for use in high speed, low power integrated logic circuits. Extensive evaluation of these monolithic complementary pairs has been performed. Device characteristics and reliability data are presented and a process monitoring method is described. Utilization of complementary pairs in integrated logic circuits is discussed and a comparison is made of circuits containing complementary, integrated MOST's as contrasted with those containing \"single-polarity\" MOST's. By proper processing techniques, it is possible to obtain a high component density without sacrificing the speed and power advantages of the pairs."
"The electrical components of an integrated circuit are presently isolated, using one of the various forms of P-N junction or dielectric isolation. In these techniques, the isolation step is performed prior to the fabrication of the active and passive components such as transistors, diodes, resistors, etc. The objective of this paper is to discuss an isolation technique in which the isolation process steps are performed after the components have been fabricated. These are two major advantages derived from isolating the components after fabrication. First, an ideal wafer surface is available for small geometry photoresist masking. Second, the mesa isolation process requires no process temperature above the silicon-aluminum eutectic temperature and thus the isolation process does not alter diffusion profiles or epitaxial films used for thickness control of transistor collector layers. Another property of the structure is that the device surfaces are buried and this may be useful in low cost packaging. Therefore after the active and passive components have been fabricated (i.e. diffused, deposited, etc.) and interconnected they are ready to begin mesa isolation processing. The wafer is first coated with a dielectric material such as glass and then it is bonded to a substrate. At this point the metal interconnection and device surfaces are buried between the substrate and the wafer. The backside of the wafer is then thinned to the desired thickness, an isolation mask is applied, and the silicon which connects the electrical components is removed by mesa etching. The feasibility of this structure has been demonstrated using a silicon planar -DTµL gate with NiCr thin film resistors."
"This paper discusses some of the major factors that should be taken into consideration in the design and fabrication of a large-scale digital integrated circuit array. It is assumed that the type of arrays to be considered are those which have three levels of metalized leads on a slice of silicon. The first level interconnects components to form circuits such as NAND gates. The second and third levels interconnect the gates to generate complex logic functions. The \"discretionary\" technique is used to interconnect the gates."
"A new approach to dielectric isolation for integrated circuits utilizes a thick layer of a glass (approximately 25 microns) to replace the thin (approximately 1 micron) layer of silicon dioxide which is commonly used as the dielectric medium. This glass layer reduces the inter-device coupling capacitance, increases the dielectric breakdown voltage, and lessens the likelihood of inter-device shorting."
"A process for dielectric isolation has been developed which is capable of providing integrated circuits with operational characteristics similar to those of discrete components. The technique makes use of a backside etch with a ceramic filled isolation medium. Life, thermal and shock tests have indicated no detrimental effects from the isolating cement. A total of 1035 logic block and gated latch devices have been supplied for Redman (NSA) and have given very successful results. The yield based on the present process is about 9% and cost studies have indicated that the Redman type device should cost about $2.66 to manufacture."
"A study has been made of the role of electron-attaching gases in controlling the high power characteristics of TR tubes. Arc loss and recovery time measurements have been made for discharges in a quartz cylinder TR input window. The effects of chlorine, bromine, hydrogen, and oxygen were investigated over a 2 to 20 Torr range. Extremely short recovery times of 0.02 to 0.20 µsec, have been observed for bromine and chlorine discharges at 1 to 40 kW peak power and 0.001 duty cycle at X-band. Arc loss values were in the 0.4 to 0.8 db range. Analysis of curves of attenuation versus time and recovery time versus arc loss has yielded values of electron attachment frequency. The analysis is based on variations of discharge conductivity and electron density with time. The measured attachment frequencies are compared with values obtained by other techniques and criteria are discussed for applying published electron attachment data to predicting recovery time behavior."
"An experimental investigation has been made to determine some of the effects of a confining magnetic field on a gaseous plasma within a duplexing device. Both parallel and crossed E and H field configurations were examined using a helium and a helium-neon Penning discharge. Temperature measurements indicate that magnetic confinement can lower the rf window temperature of gaseous discharge duplexing device by more than 50% at pressures below 0.5 torr. Leakage power can also be reduced by 50% or more in this pressure range, but the leakage level in the parallel field device is inherently too high for practical application. Reductions of up to 4.5 to 1 were obtained in the recovery time of helium in the 2- to 50-torr pressure range using a crossed-field configuration. By magnetically confining the plasma discharge of a gas duplexer, the performance can be significantly improved by lowering temperatures and gas clean-up rates."
"This paper describes the investigation of a gas discharge switching device which can be switched off using a magnetic field. This investigation has led to a switching device with the high power capabilities and low impedance characteristics of a hydrogen thyratron combined with the capability of controlling pulse shape and duration. The device uses crossed magnetic fields, of the order of several kilogauss, applied to the positive column of a gas discharge tube. Application of a fast rising magnetic field to the gas discharge tube causes a corresponding increase in tube impedance, resulting in the termination of the discharge. The off time of the discharge is controlled by the magnetic field pulse duration."
"Two types of tubes have been developed which depend upon an electrical discharge in gas at low pressure. The tubes are of rugged construction which will withstand severe environments. A low pressure-distance product, necessary for high voltage operation, may be obtained by using a short path geometry which allows sufficient gas pressure for high current conduction."
"Hydrogen thyratron tubes mede with a plurality of grids and gaps are capable of operating in line type modulators at peak forward voltages of 100 KV. Reliability and anode take-over characteristics are satisfactory if closely spaced planar gradient grids are used in a structure of periodic design which is composed of an indefinite number of identical grids. Tubes with compact gradient grid structures and short discharge paths are thus obtained. Sufficient voltage hold-off between grid seals is achieved with a stacked, ceramic-metal design which provides proper spacings and insulation in the gaps. The electrical characteristics and gas discharge conditions existing in the operating tube were investigated. When the tube is triggered, a low current, high impedance discharge is initiated which is transformed into the high current arc of the pulse as the anode takes over. During this commutation period, high instantaneous voltage drops appear in the anode gap. Anode erosion and voltage breakdown in the insulation of this gap are the principal factors on which performance of this tube type at higher forward voltages may depend."
"A low-loss, low-noise plasma varactor has been developed. This is a variable microwave reactance produced by means of a low pressure, highly efficient gas discharge. This device compares favorably with ferrite or semiconductor devices as far as rf losses and average rf power handling capability are concerned. A low-loss phase shifter has been developed using these plasma varactors. Overall rf losses (including the reflection, circuit and plasma losses) smaller than 0.5 db have been obtained over a bandwidth of 12% at X-band frequencies for continuously variable phase angles well in excess of 360°. An average power handling capability in excess of 200W has been obtained from this device. While the original work was performed at X-band, extrapolations of the results indicate that 1he substantially improved performances (with an excess noise temperature smaller than 100°K and with a multi-kilowatt rf average power handling capability) will be possible throughout the whole microwave, frequency range."
"A highly-refined group of low-noise traveling-wave amplifiers has been developed for use in a monopulse tracking system for the Apollo program. A total of 36 amplifiers must gain and phase track each other across a wide frequency band and over wide temperature ranges while maintaining an extremely low noise figure. This was accomplished by building tubes permitting final gain and phase adjustments to be made external to the vacuum envelope and by using a very stable and well-regulated power-supply."
"Miniaturization of low-noise traveling-wave amplifiers including integral power supplies has taken great strides in the last few years. This paper describes a recent development resulting in the operation of multiple low-noise tubes and power supplies within a single shielded enclosure. Utilization of one magnet structure with multiple focusing holes for all the tubes, and integration of solid-state supplies within the magnet shield environment significantly reduces overall volume and weight. The major key to short-length packaging is the use of hollow-electron-beam TWT's focused in uniform-field permanent magnets. This approach maintains very low noise figures with high values of gain per circuit wavelength. An additional feature is the small, sintered-heater cathode operating at 10% of the normal 2-watt dissipation. This, in turn, has allowed miniaturization of the electron gun and vacuum envelope. Similarly, the reduced wattage requirement results in lower power supply volume and line drain."
"A program was undertaken to develop a high power TWT and associated console to be used as a ground station transmitter for satellite communications. The major objectives of this program were broad bandwidth, high efficiency and long life. The result is a 2.5 kW, CW TWT operating between 7.7 GHz and 8.4 GHz; the efficiency is in excess of 35 percent, and the expected life is over 1,000 hours."
"A helix-type traveling-wave tube amplifier has been developed which is capable of providing more than 0.5 watt CW saturated power with approximately 20 db noise figure in the frequency range 25 to 40 GHz. The mm-wave tube combines low noise methods of beam formation with high power techniques to helix support to achieve up to 1 watt of output power over a narrow band; the accompanying noise figure is 20 to 25 db. Under broadband conditions, the saturated power output is typically 300 to 600 mW across the 25 to 40 GHz band with saturation gain varying from 50 to 60 db."
"Recent work has resulted in the development of low-noise traveling-wave amplifiers capable of operating over frequency bands considerably in excess of one octave. One such amplifier covering the double-octave frequency band 2 to 8 GHz was reported at this conference last year. More recently, this work has been extended to cover a lower band greater than two octaves, namely, 0.5 to 2.1 GHz. At the present this amplifier has gained between 25 and 33 db, noise figure less than 6.5 db, and saturation power greater than 3 milliwatts. The unit unit incorporates an integral power supply and weighs less than 17 pounds. Coupling to the helix over this frequency range represents one of the principal technical problems. This is solved at the input by using a direct pin connection between the center conductor of the input coaxial line and the helix, with a typical VSWR of less than 2:1 resulting. The output match uses a coupled helix. In order to maintain flat gain the helix is severed, the input portion operating typically at 50 volts and output section at 75 volts. The parameter γa reaches a maximum value of 6.9 in the input helix."
"This paper describes some results achieved on the study and development of O-type travelling-wave tubes used as variable delay lines. Because these tubes have a large instantaneous bandwidth (greater than two octaves have been measured) they are capable of transmitting very short pulses with good fidelity."
"This paper is concerned with new and substantial increase in available cw power levels at millimeter-wave frequencies. Average power in excess of five kilowatts has been achieved at 55 GHz in a forward wave amplifier with about 20 db gain. Bandwidths of 1 GHz and efficiencies of greater than 30% have been observed. These results followed from the extension of conventional traveling wave tube design techniques with particular care in the areas of mechanical tolerances and beam control."
"A high current (75A collector current), very low saturation voltage (.2V at 75A), high gain (gain of 20 at 75A) device was recently developed for low voltage source application. To achieve these characteristics, a detailed design calculation and a well-controlled fabrication procedure are essential."
"This paper presents infrared temperature measurements on the surface of planar power transistors under steady-state operating conditions. These results present a clear picture of the thermal characteristics of silicon planar epitaxial power transistors as a function of construction and operating conditions. Isothermal contour maps constructed from consecutive infrared profiles clearly demonstrate the thermal characteristics to be radically different at different operating conditions due to hot spot or thermal instability development. The results are discussed in terms of thermal-electrical interaction effects which lead to the nonuniform current concentration causing the hot spots. At moderate voltages, this temperature or current nonuniformity develops continuously as power level is increased. At high voltage, however, device producing very high temperatures. This instability is shown to be independent of case temperature. The relationship between this current instability and \"second breakdown\" is discussed in detail."
"The SCR conduction state has been analyzed in the literature both from a circuit and device parameter approach. Often where device design parameters were used, physical interpretation of parameters was lost through the use of analytic solutions. This paper presents the results of numerical calculations of voltage across the various regions of an SCR as a function of device parameters taking into account carrier-carrier scattering, conductivity modulation, and the dependence of emitter efficiency upon current density."
"This paper reports experimental measurements of junction temperature obtained by various electrical and thermal methods. Electrical measurements were based on temperature-sensitive junction parameters including pulse sampling of CCBFand VBE, steady state hFE, and pulsed ΔVCBF. Direct measurement of peak junction temperature was made using an infrared microradiometer. Junction temperature measurements were obtained as a function of device operating conditions, since the junction temperature distribution is a complex function of operating conditions. Comparison of these results clearly indicates why inconsistent results have been obtained in the past using the various electrical methods. The VCBF, VBE, and ΔVCBFmeasurement indicated temperature much lower than the true peak temperature obtained from the mieroradiometer, but they did indicate the correct variation with operating conditions. The hFEdata, on the other hand, indicated temperature values higher than the actual values and did not indicate the correct variation. Thermal impedance values calculated from the VBEor VCBFjunction temperature data are typically one-third to one-half of the actual value based on peak junction temperature. This error is shown to be a direct function of the nonuniformity in junction temperature. This error arises primarily because the calibration data is not applicable to actual operation with nonuniform junction temperature. Devices with voids or nonuniform current distributions are shown to have large errors. These discrepancies explain much of the confusion involving thermal limitation and results of reliability screening tests."
"For high voltage power applications where large numbers of silicon pnpn devices are to be operated in series there are two very important advantages to be gained over conventional, electrically gated thyristors using a two-terminal pnpn power switch that utilizes direct optical gating. Such a device is reported here rated at 600V and 40A designed for triggering by GaAs emission in the range 8400 to 9000Å This device provides inherently the electrical isolation of the gate needed for series operation. The relatively large area turned on by the light provides turn-on in hundreds of nanoseconds and di/dt ratings an order of magnitude higher than those of conventional thyristors. Fabrication and encapsulation techniques and test results are reported. Studies of high speed, synchronous triggering of a number of switches using single GaAs sources and fiber optic couplings are discussed."
"Space charge limited semi-conductor devices possess significant advantages over conventional semiconductor devices mainly with respect to low noise properties, relative temperature insensitivity, and high frequency capability. The main problem in fabricating these devices in the past has been associated with the lack of a suitable high resistivity semiconductor material in a form amenable to the fabrication of high quality stable devices. Such a material is now available. This material is high resistivity silicon (>100 ohm. cm.) in the form of thin (< 1 micron) single crystal layers epitaxially deposited on a single crystal insulating substrates (sapphire). Device characteristics obtained initially on SCL devices fabricated in these thin high resistivity silicon films have been presented. Subsequent device investigations have resulted in the successful fabrication of a variety of single and double carrier thin film SCL devices. These devices include: 1. Single carrier SCL resistors. 2. Single carrier SCL surface barrier diodes. 3. Double carrier SCL diffused diodes. 4. Single carrier thin film SCL MOS transistors. 5. Double carrier thin film SCL MOS transistors. The characteristics of the two thermal devices show the classicI . \\alpha V^{2}characteristic expected for these solid state devices (analogous to Child's law for vacuum, i.e.I \\alpha V^{3/2}). Current densities as high as 20,000 amps/squ. cm. have been obtained under DC conditions due to the novel device structures used. These device structures will be described and the device design theories will be presented and compared with the device characteristics actually obtained on the above devices."
"Properties associated with space-charge-limited (SCL) currents in solids are summarized in terms of their potential for device application. The effect of space-charge on limiting the flow of injected current carriers is investigated in alloyed Ge solid-state diodes. Experimental results are presented for SCL hole currents in near-intrinsic n-type Ge (ν-type) and SCL electron currents in near-intrinsic p-type Ge (π-type). I-V characteristics of p+ν p+and n+π n+solid-state diodes of various base widths W are measured at various ambient temperatures (78°K, 195°K, and 273°K). AnI \\sim V^{3/2}relation is observed for pure SCL hole and SCL electron currents. Theory predicts anI \\sim V^{3/2}relation and is of the form I=1.43A\\epsilon\\epsilon_{0}-\\micro_{0}E_{c}^{1/2}V^{3/2}W^{-5/2}where µ is the low field mobility and Ecis the critical electric field. A field dependent mobility of\\micro = \\micro_{o} (E_{c}/E)^{1/2}is assumed. A good agreement between theory and experiment is obtained. These experimental results indicate that it is practically feasible to obtain SCL current in Ge. The potential application of SCL current in a solid-state triode will be discussed."
"The lateral transistor has been shown to be highly useful in the realization of low-frequency circuits. This simple structure has been limited essentially to DC applications, however, by bandwidth and switching time performance. The PNP device to be described in this paper overcomes these deficiencies by the addition of an n+ diffusion directly beneath the emitter region. As a result of the steeper gradient at the bulk portion of the E-B junction, injection occurs primarily near the surface. It is possible to control the dimensions of the buried n+ layer such that injection of carriers greater than a diffusion length from the collector is minimized. In addition to the reduction ofr_{bb'}, a further consequence of the n+ region is the introduction of a graded-base region such that minority carrier transport is enhanced. The improved transistor structure has demonstrated the feasibility of obtaining an ftof 10 to 15 MHz at collector currents of 0.25 ma and rise, fall, and storage times of the order of tens of nanoseconds."
"This paper describes a high gain lateral PNP transistor that has been successfully incorporated into integrated circuits, The structure is entirely compatible with existing processes and no additional steps are required. The PNP transistor may be electrically isolated from the other components of the integrated circuit by the standard isolation wall technique. Transistor current gains of 200 at 100 microamperes collector current have been observed."
"A modified lateral transistor structure involving the intersection of the diffused p+ emitter profile with an underlying n+ layer yielded devices which showed an improvement in performance with respect to a simple lateral transistor structure. It was possible to prepare devices with a d.c. current gain of 50, a cutoff frequency ftof 50 MHz and switching characteristics with an trof 15 nanoseconds, a tsof 60 nanoseconds and a tfof 45 nanoseconds. Certain device characteristics are limited by the geometry and minority carrier lifetime as well as by their structure. Design considerations for a complementary pair of a lateral p-n-p transistor and a conventional bi-polar n-p-n transistor are discussed, hFE, ft, junction capacitances, breakdown voltages, saturation voltages and switching characteristics are analyzed in terms of device geometry, minority carrier lifetime, photolithographic tolerance, diffusion profile and epitaxial growth control during the processing of the device."
"The inability to easily and consistently fabricate complementary NPN and PNP transistors in a single chip has been a major limitation in the design of monolithic integrated circuits. A solution to this processing problem is presented and the results obtained using this method are described. A method for producing dielectrically isolated n and p type collector regions of homogeneous uncompensated single crystal silicon is given and the resulting material properties are described. To produce the planar diffused NPN and PNP devices, a sequential diffusion flow process was used. First an antimony base diffusion was made for the PNP, then a boron base diffusion for the NPN, next a boron emitter diffusion, and finally a phosphorus emitter diffusion. By using this diffusion sequence and taking advantage of the differences in diffusion coefficients between antimony and boron and between heavily doped boron and heavily doped phosphorus, it is possible to obtain similar base and emitter profiles for both type devices. The advantage of this method lies in its simplicity arising from the fact that standard oxide masked diffusion techniques are used and all impurity doping is done in open tube diffusion setups using liquid impurity sources. The diffusion profiles and the final device characteristics which were obtained are presented and discussed."
"Due to the limitations of photolithography, the base width of a lateral complementary PNP transistor cannot usually be controlled to be as narrow as the double-diffused PNP transistor in the same block, and the cut-off frequency is considerably lower. If the lateral transistor is connected in a common emitter configuration within the feedback loop of an amplifier, the lower cutoff frequency may cause excessive phase-shift and result in instability of the amplifier. The phase-shift can be reduced by decreasing the lifetime and hence the gain of the lateral transistor."
"This paper describes the development of devices necessary for the design of micropower integrated circuits. These devices were used specifically for complementary micropower (250 micro-watts) NAND and NOR gates and a flip-flop (300 microwatts). NPN and PNP transistors, multiemitter gating transistors, high sheet resistors and high Q capacitors are discussed. Complementary PNP and NPN structures are described as output devices and a multi-emitter device is described for input purposes. By utilizing a separate resistor diffusion, a high temperature coefficient resulted and was used to advantage for compensation of changes in VBEand hFEwith temperature. The high resistivity (500 Ω/□) of the resistor diffusion enabled the actual bar size to be held to a minimum. High Q capacitors were developed using diffused junction techniques that allowed the resistance of the charging path to be decreased. Two methods were incorporated in minimizing inverse alpha of the multi-emitter gating transistor to decrease power drain."
"The drain current of a junction field effect transistor can be directly related to the charge on the gate terminal. For a device operating in the saturated region, the drain current is very nearly a linear function of the gate charge. As a result, if the conventional drain characteristics are re-drawn with curves of constant gate charge replacing curves of constant gate voltage, the characteristic curves will become uniformly spaced for equal increments in gate charge. This characterization can be useful to both user and designer of junction FET's."
"Hole mobility in a MOSFET channel layer varies significantly with gate voltage and crystalline orientation. The basic device equations are therefore revised in this investigation to take nonconstant mobility into account. Hole mobility in silicon P-type inversion layers has been measured for wide ranges of temperature and gate voltage, and for the"
"The theory underlying the operation of metal-insulator-piezoelectric semiconductor (MIPS) electromechanical transducers is verified experimentally for time-varying loads on devices made from CdS piezoelectric film materials. Experimental transducers exhibit sensitivities of the same order as those observed under static loading within times shorter than one microsecond after the application of mechanical stress. Tests of the structures under hydrostatic pressure further corroborate MIPS theory. The frequency limitations for the transducer appear to be determined by the electrical properties of the MOS structure. The MIPS effect is demonstrated experimentally in CdSe transducers. Transducers fabricated on a flexible polyimide film are described, and a microphone embodying this construction is discussed."
"Conventional construction of an IGFET involves diffusing the source-drain junctions, then placing the gate over the channel area. To insure modulation of the entire channel area the gate must overlap the source and drain by an amount required by mask alignment tolerance. This overlap adds undesirable parasitic capacitance from source to gate and drain to gate. In this paper, two methods of forming the source-drain junction using the gate itself as the channel mask are described. These methods eliminate the gate alignment problem and therefore simplify fabrication and greatly reduce the parasitic gate capacitance. The first method uses ion implantation to form the source drain junctions. The metal gate structure is fabricated prior to the formation of the source and drain. The metal gate then acts as a mask against implantation doping in the channel region. Furthermore, the source and drain junctions are automatically placed for minimum gate to source-drain overlap. This technique is applicable to ion implantation because of the low temperature nature of this doping process. If a polycrystalline silicon film replaces the metal gate, conventional diffusion technique can be applied to this technique. Comparable structures were fabricated using conventional techniques and both of-the methods described here. The characteristics of each of these devices will be discussed."
"MOS multilplex switches have been made in Czochralski silicon down to 2 microns thick. These dielectrically isolated devices exhibit electrical characteristics like those made by conventional techniques. MIS structures of this type can be operated with the substrate acting as a second gate. In this way a device can be biased, without power dissipation, to operate in either depletion or enhancement mode. Tranconductances are, however, reduced, in one mode, by the extra oxide of isolation. These characteristics, as well as applications to radiatior resistant circuits, will be described. The dielectric isolation allows the design of Compatible n- and p-enhancement devices without the disadvantages of multiple diffusion methods. Specifically, there are no large isolation junctions in this structure to create photocurrents in transient radiation environments. Wafers can be prepared with 80 percent of device areas at any nominal thickness, plus or minus one micron. Junction areas of these units are 1200 square microns, a reduction by a factor of 20."
"A thin film transistor (TFT) is described and demonstrated whose transfer characteristic can be reversibly adapted by a short duration voltage pulse applied to a high impedance gate electrode. The device is a four terminal-two gate structure: A source, drain, and insulator gate contact form the basic TFT while the amount of polarity of the polarization charge on the surface of the ferroelectric material of a second gate contact determines the pinch-off voltage of the TFT transfer characteristic. The characteristic is adaptive because once the polarization charge has been changed by an applied potential to the ferroelectric gate contact it will remain at its new value even if the potential is removed. The time required to adapt the characteristic is limited by the switching time of the ferroelectric material which, in general, can be of the order of microseconds. Experimental adaptive thin film transistors have been fabricated using triglycine sulfate for the ferroelectric (single crystal wafer used as substrate), evaporated silicon monoxide for the insulator and evaporated tellurium (p-type) for the semiconductor material. Preliminary electrical measurements indicate that the pinch-off voltage is adaptable over a sizable range and as a consequence, TFT transconductance ratios in excess of 100 to 1 are possible for maximum positive and negative polarization states of the ferroelectric material."
"All diffused, planar FET's which show a power gain at 500°C have been fabricated from SiC by the development of microelectronics processes similar to silicon integrated circuits As many as 25 0.030\" × 0.040\" devices can be put on a single SiC platelet. The SiC platelet is aluminum diffused at 2300°K to a depth of about 1.3 mils to form the lower gate. The p-layer on the carbon face of the crystal is removed with high precision lapping-polishing jig. The planar structure of the upper gate region is formed by a unique self-masked diffusion Process which consists of the following steps: The polished carbon surface of the crystal is oxidized; a Window of an upper gate pattern is photoresist etched into SiO2using SiO2as a mask the pattern is etched into SiC by a precision chlorine etch; the upper gate junction is formed by aluminum diffusion to a depth of about 0.5 mil in two steps to obtain a channel thickness of 1 to 2µ, the unetched SiC serving as the diffusion mask; the SiC mask is lapped away to return the carbon surface to planarity and expose the source and drain regions. Ta-Au ohmic contacts are applied using photoresist and a special sputtering and alloying technique. The electrical characteristics of a silicon carbide FET are presented and discussed."
"Development of a monolithic circuit current switch in silicon with switching times of 400 picosecond is described. (This speed includes 110-picosecond package delay.) The circuit uses junction isolation and employs two levels of metallization. The transistors used in the circuit have 0.000075\"-wide emitter and 0.000075\" emitter-to-base spacing. The transistors are made through double-diffusion techniques, and the collector and emitter junction depths are, respectively, 3200 Å and 2000 Å. The collector base junction capacitance is 0.58 pf and the emitter base junction capacitance is 0.28 pf. The cut-off frequency of these transistors is 7.15 GHz at IC= 20 ma and VCB= 2.0 volts. Computer-simulated transistor design techniques were used to optimize the transistor design. The major factors influencing the design were (a) mobile charge storage in the forward biased emitter-base junction, (b) optimum emitter area to handle the required current, (c) crowding of the current under the emitter and (d) effect of junction depth on the transistor speed."
"This paper is directed toward the problem of power dissipation in very high speed complex biopolar parity generator array which is intended to have been developed which exhibit greater than 3 GHz fTat collector currents in the range of 0.5 to 1 mA. Such transistors have been incorporated into simple ECL microcircuit designs which have demonstrated average propagation delay times of 0.5 ns with power dissipation in the range of 10-15 mW for the complementary three input ECL gate."
"The present trend in Molecular Electronics is both to reduce the overall size of the completed circuit and also to go to more complex circuits containing larger numbers of components. Both of these tendencies result in the requirement of smaller component sizes in the circuit. However the planar method normally used to fabricate these components is subject to certain dimensional limitations."
"Silicon integrated circuit fabrication technology depends upon the use of the surface oxide as a diffusion mask. Ordinarily the diffusion windows are opened by etching the oxide through holes in a photoresist mask. A new process has been developed which makes the photoresist unnecessary. The chemical etch rate of a thermally grown silicon dioxide layer can be increased typically ∼ 3 times by bombardment with energetic electrons (1-15 keV). No erosion of material is involved. When etched, the bombarded regions dissolve away first, leaving sufficient oxide over the unbombarded portion of the wafer to provide an adequate diffusion mask. Window geometry is controlled by steering or shaping the electron beam. Electron bombardment can also be used to delineate metallized regions for contacts. In this way, high quality planar transistor arrays have been fabricated entirely without the use of any photoresist steps."
"Double-diffused epitaxial npn silicon transistors having base layer thicknesses of <0.15 micron and emitter stripe widths of 1 micron have been fabricated. These devices, designed for linear amplification in the low microwave range, exhibit fTup to 7 GHz and up to 4 dB of maximum available power gain at 4 GHz. Several major fabrication problems were encountered during the development of these devices. Emitter-collector shorts can result from dislocations and precipitations introduced into the silicon during base and emitter diffusions. This problem is minimized by using very shallow diffused layers: the present structures employ 0.35µ boron-diffused base layers and 0.2µ phosphorus-diffused emitters and only a small and usually negligible number of defects are obtained. Inadequate resolution of the photoresist can result from non-uniform exposure caused by constructive interference of the incident light with that reflected at the silicon surface. This difficulty is alleviated either by incorporating a thin metallic film between the SiO2and the photoresist or by using a modified photoresist with increased optical density. The formation of electrical base-emitter shorts by the overlay contact is minimized by employing an extremely thin layer of phosphorus glass for the emitter diffusion source, thus avoiding excessive interaction with protective SiO2."
"A silicon monolithic integrated antenna TR switching circuit has been developed for operation at 9 GHz as part of a program for the investigation of Molecular Electronics for Radar Applications (MERA). The circuit is on a silicon chip 10 mils thick and 100 mils square. It consists of a microwave microstrip transmission line containing surface oriented diodes which alternately switch a transmitted or received signal to or from an antenna leg. Bias is supplied to the switching diodes through quarter wavelength meander line chokes which are by-passed to ground by thin film capacitors. The diode structures provide greater than 25 db of isolation between the receive leg and the transmit leg at 9 GHz. A typical reverse bias capacitance for these diodes is 0.008 pF."
"A PNP silicon UHF transistor using antimony as a base-dopant has been developed. A transit time frequency (fT) of the PNP transistor is inherently lower than the NPN transistor due to a larger base transit time. In order to increase the fTof the PHP transistor, the base layer structure has been designed so that the base transit time might occupy a smaller part in the total transit time."
"This paper reports high repetition rate (30 - 60 KHz) Q-switching in a CO2vibrational-rotational CO2laser at 10.6 microns. A new moving mirror technique is used which gives the same average power in pulsed as in CW operation. The results yield information on the lower laser level lifetimes and demonsrtate some interesting effects of hysteresis, and line competition in the CO2laser."
"Single-pass gain at 10.6 microns has been studied parametrically in nonflowing CO2or buffered CO2amplifying media. The gain profile across the amplifier diameter and integrated gain both were determined. Parameters varied included buffer gas type, mixture ratio, gas pressure, amplifier bore, discharge current, and wall temperature. Tube bores of 12, 22, and 34 mm and buffer gases of H2, He, Ne, A, O2, and N2were studied. For CW laser amplifiers, optimum gain is relatively independent of current density, but decreases with wall temperature. A pressure-diameter product of about 4 torr-cm was found to hold for CO2, CO2:He, and CO2:N2amplifying media at optimum gain. The gain depends strongly on the CO2partial pressure and is relatively insensitive to the buffer gas pressure. The highest gain, 1.7 db/meter, was achieved in helium buffered CO2amplifiers with a diameter, of 22 mm or less. Addition of N2to the optimum CO2:He mixture reduced the gain. The maximum gain decreased slowly with the amplifier diameter. Addition of hydrogen to CO2quenched the inversion of CO201°0 - 00°1 levels. No gain saturation was detected for a 30 db range of input signal power, from a milliwatt to a few watts. Pulsed gain measurements are also presented."
"The pulse width of a Q-switched CO2-N2-He laser operating at 10.6µ has been directly measured with a Au:Ge (77°) detector to be less than or equal to 25 nanoseconds. For a 3 meter CW CO2laser operating at low pressure the beat frequency between two longitudinal modes has been observed using the fast Ge:Au detector. When the laser transitions are pressure broadened, the laser tends to operate in a single mode. During Q-switched operation at 10.6µ, two new groups of laser oscillations have been detected at 4.35µ which arise from transitions between the 00°2-00°1 CO2levels. The first group of 4.35µ lines, which have an energy level in common with the 10.6µ transitions, occur following the 10.6µ pulse in a time short with respect to rotational equilibration; the second group, however, have no level in common with the 10.6µ transition and occur following the 10.6µ pulse in a time of the order of several rotational state lifetimes. Detailed assignment of all the 4.5µ lines is presently being made."
"Although it may be possible to obtain higher power from CO2lasers in which the gases flow continuously through the discharge region, there are-many applications in which some power can be sacrificed if the reward is a small, sealed-off laser which does not require peripheral gas supplies, valves and pump. With proper design mechanical failure of the sealed-off laser can be eliminated so that its life will be limited by degradation of the gas mixture."
"Considerable improvement in the performance of continuous room-temperature ruby lasers has been obtained since the report of the first operation of such a laser. Thus, power outputs of up to 1.3 W with incremental (above threshold) efficicncies of\\sim 0.11%have been observed. Perhaps of equal significance is the fact that it has been possible to obtain good agreement between the experimentally observed dependence of power output and efficiency on various laser parameters and the theoretical computations of this dependence. This agreement aids greatly in optimizing the design of continuous ruby lasers, in indicating the directions of future development, and in predicting the performance which can reasonably be expected in the future."
"The Tonks-Langmuir theory for the low pressure positive column is reviewed and shown to be applicable to argon ion laser operation. Under these conditions ions formed in the plasma are accelerated and move by free fall to the wall. The sputtering effects of the ions on the plasma confining structure are evaluated for both a uniform insulator wall, and a sectioned metal wall."
"Uniformly high gain per unit length has been achieved in a comb type traveling wave maser at X-band using Czochralski grown ruby and a high-homogeneity superconducting magnet. A high stability dual channel 9GHz maser and a single channel 3 GHz maser were developed which provide gain in excess of 30 db, noise temperature less than 7.0° Kelvin, and an intrinsic tunability in excess of 800 MHz. Electronic adjustment of gain and bandwidth in both amplifiers is provided by means of magnetic field trimming coils incorporated in the superconducting magnets."
"The design of a Traveling Wave Tube Amplifier for use as a Satellite Power Amplifier has been described in an earlier paper. The design had been optimized for high reliability, long life, high efficiency, and light weight."
"An evolving family of traveling-wave tubes is described. These tubes have been developed and refined for a number of existing and future satellite systems. Both high gain, low noise drives tubes and power amplifier tubes will be discussed."
"Due to their wide operating frequency band (almost an octave), traveling wave tubes have become very attractive for use in multiple-access communication satellites. Non-linear effects, however, prevent their operation at high efficiencies. Extensive experimental work attempting to evaluate and minimize the extent of these non-linear effects has been reported. Until now, most of the theoretical studies were concerned with the small signal analysis and, therefore, were applicable to tubes operating very inefficiently."
"The results to be described herein concern the multisignal operation of a UHF Crestatron (100-300 MHz) and an S-band TWT using a tapered helix. The Crestatron was operated with two input signals (frequencies f1and f2) which were independently varied from low power levels to above saturation. The intermodulation frequencies (2f_{1}-f_{2}, 2f_{2}-f_{1}, etc.) generated within the tube were analyzed for various frequencies, frequency separations and relative power levels. Generally the results indicated that the intermodulation and second harmonic signals were proportional to the input power. With one saturated signal and one small-signal applied, the intermodulation frequency associated with the stronger input signal predominates. However, with two large input signals the stronger intermodulation signal depends on the frequency of operation."
"A miniature light-weight traveling-wave tube is described which meets the high efficiency performance requirements of space communications systems at 2.3 GHz. An overall efficiency (including heater) of 40% is achieved at a power output level of 35 watts. This tube can cover the output power range of 10 to 50 watts at essentially the same gain by merely programming three electrode voltages. Various versions of the tube exhibit saturation gain of 25 to 35 dB depending upon the requirements. The tube has been qualified to meet launch and orbital environmental requirements. It operates over its heat sink temperature range of -50°C to +100°C, during 100 g shock and 100 g static acceleration, 20 g rms random vibration, and space vacuum conditions. Various performance characteristics will be shown."
"A light-weight traveling-wave tube designed to deliver 100 watts of CW power at 30 db saturated gain over the complete Ku-Band, will be described. Features of the construction of the TWT and its measured performance will be reported."
"Optimum power conversion efficiency in klystrons involves two factors: (1) electron bunching, for highest current conversion efficiency, and (2) minimum velocity spread, for optimum energy removal in the output gap. The merit figure, a new criterion involving both of these factors, is shown to give an excellent quantitative indication of klystron power conversion efficiency without the necessity of making a large signal output gap calculation."
"This paper describes theoretical and experimental studies of the behavior of standing-wave type distributed interaction klystrons. The theoretical study was based on a confined flow disc electron computer analysis which can predict the klystron conversion efficiency within a few percent. The computer analysis takes account of space charge forces, provides a self-consistent check on the beam and circuit power flow and also can predict the conversion efficiency for any kind of distributed cavities with a standing-wave field distribution."
"This paper deals with one of the results of a study aimed at achieving high efficiency in traveling-wave tubes. For the most part, the study has relier, for its progress, on measured data from special beam analyzing devices developed during the course of its researches. These devices made possible measurements of the spent beam current-voltage distribution, and of the spent beam r-f current modulation. The inferences drawn from these data implied that in highly overvoltaged operating regimes, a traveling-wave tube would operate most efficiently not with a recreasing phase velocity circuit in the output section of the tubes as is currently advocated by several investigators, but rather with an increasing phase velocity circuit. In addition, it was found that in these overvoltaged regimes, the measured data indicated that the small-signal behavior of the beam and circuit wave interaction was sharply at variance with the accepted small-signal theory."
"The paper describes results obtained from calculation of output efficiencies of multicavity klystrons. The theoretical predictions are compared with experimental results. The large-signal computer program used in the analysis is based on a program developed at Cornell University. The input parameters to the program were modified to account for the effect of the drift tube on the r.f. space-charge forces. A test ot the validity of the results from the computer program is obtained by comparing the predicted efficiency as a function of tuning of the penultimate resonator with the experimental results obtained from a 4-cavity C-band klystron. The close agreement obtained shows that the program gives a good description of the r.f. performance for a large variety of large signal conditions."
"Efficiency studies on a demoumtable traveling-wave tube are described. With the application of new efficiency enhancement techniques, it was possible to demonstrate electronic conversion efficiencies in excess of 50% with 20 db gain, compared to 26% obtainable without such techniques. The tube uses an X-band, coupled cavity circuit at the 10 kw power level in pulsed operation but the application of the described techniques is not restricted to this type of slow-wave structure."
"Multicavity optical couplers are electron beam interacting structures consisting of an array of cavities properly spaced so that the output r-f apertures form a phased array antenna. When the cavities are spaced a beam wavelength apart, then the r-f excited by a bunched beam passing through the cavities is in proper phase so that the r-f apertures act as a linear phased array of dipoles launching a fan shaped beam as 90° relative to the electron beam axis."
"An electronically-controlled light beam deflector has been devised and its performance characteristics have been evaluated. The deflector is an iterated prism device utilizing as the active element, the elector-optic material potassium dideuterium phosphate (KD*P) cooled to near its Curie temperature (∼210°K). This deflection scheme was developed in connection with an experimental and theoretical study of random access laser display techniques. Deflection sensitivity, resolution, frequency response, and the effect of piezoelectric resonances have been measured. In addition, experimental and theoretical results pertaining to the limitations imposed by dissipative processes and the attendant non-uniform temperature distribution within the electro-optic material are considered. These results provide a means of estimating the ultimate capability of electro-optic prism deflectors. The extension of the resolution capabilities of this type of deflector by means of supplementary binary deflection stages is also considered."
"An optical mcdulator has been developed for pulse code modulation transmission systems. This modulator uses the electro-optic effect in lithium tantalate (LiTaO3) and requires less than ten milliwatts drive power to a transistor pulse amplifier which supplies the drive voltage for the lithium tantalate. The LiTaO3crystal is cut to dimensions which allow 100% optical modulation for 30 volts change in potential across electrodes which are plated onto the crystal. This voltage is applied in the form of pulses With a rise time of 2.1 ns and a fall time of 3.3 ns by the transistor pulse amplifier."
"This paper reports en experimental studies of the Electron Beam Scanlaser, a scanning laser device in which the transverse position of focused laser light is controlled by means of a conventionally deflected electron beam. In the Scanlaser, the method of scanning is based on a transversely degenerate laser cavity in which the Q is spoiled for all transverse modes but one. The resonator we are using is the Flat Field Conjugate (FFC) Resonator, which is capable of supporting as many as 107nearly degenerate transverse modes, and mode selection is accomplished by means of a modified electro-optic display tube, in which an electron beam induces a localized birefringence in an electro-optic crystal. Using a25 \\times 25 \\times 3mm z-cut KDP (or deuterate.d KDP) crystal and a low resolution 10 SP-type electron gun with conventional magnetic deflection, we have observed a field of 120 × 120 fully resolved spots. The active medium is a pulsed mercury hollow cathode discharge, emitting at 6150 A; the laser power in a one-microsecond pulse is 15mw, 20db greater than the electron beam power. By operating the laser very close to threshold, it is possible to reduce the spot size of the light output with respect to the spot size of the electron beam: Similarly, at threshold, the duration of the lasing process is shorter than the time constant of the KDP, which is of the order of 30msec. In this manner, we have obtained spots as small as thirty microns in diameter, and decay times of a few millisec. Since the first operation of this device, attempts have been made to optimize both the hollow cathode discharge tube and the electro-optic mode selector, and these will be described. High speed motion pictures of the operation of the device have given considerable information on the dynamics of the charge build-up and decay, and of its influence on the laser operation."
"In a recent paper the authors have described a new infrared detector which depends on light-to-heavy hole transitions in P-type germanium. The device is a photoresistor in which the mobility rather than the carrier concentration is varied. The transition between the degenerate hole bands produces a maximum absorption coefficient for photons with energy of about 0.12 ev, making this device particularly useful as a detector for the CO2laser. The enormous density of states in the bands permits efficient room temperature operation in spite of the fact that the photon energy is only 4kT. The degeneracy at k=0 produces very rapid relaxation of the non-equilibrium population of light holes. This implies both a very fast rise and fall time and also low sensitivity."
"A gallium arsenide electro-optic modulator has been used for external modulation of the output of a CO2laser at 10.6 microns. Modulation depths of 70% have been obtained for a modulating signal of 1000 volts. Modulation frequencies of a few hundred megahertz should be possible based on experiments performod at shorter wavelengths. The effect of high laser output power on the modulator performance will be discussed."
"The detection of infrared radiation using the tripositive rare earth ions of Pr, Nd, Dy, Ho, Er, and Tm has been reported by several authors. The energy levels of these ions are employed to convert infrared quanta to visible quanta by a two step excitation process. To date the conversion efficiency of this process has been of the order of 10-6for the best systems. We have increased the efficiency of the Holmium quantum counter by two orders of magnitude by making use of energy transfer between the Yb and Ho rare earth ions. The single crystal used is CaF2doubly doped with 20% Yb+, and 2% Ho3+. The heavily doped Ytterbium absorbs in a band around one micron (into the2F5/2 level) and transfers most of its energy to the5I6level of Holmium. The electron is then lifted to higher excited states of the Ho3+ion by selected pump frequencies. The electron then radiates to the ground state with radiation that can be detected either by the eye or by commercial photomultipliers. Output signals in the red, green, blue, and UV have been detected."
"We have theoretically studied the dynamics of an optical parametric oscillator which is constructed with the non-linear crystal situated internally to the cavity of the pumping laser. In this situation the nonlinear polarization which results from the mixing of the signal and idler frequencies directly affects the behavior of the pump laser and leads to a number of interesting consequences."
"A device fabrication is presented which enables the gain band-width product realized in a differential amplifier topology to increase as much as five times over that available using conventional bipolar transistors. A bridge neutralization of collector depletion layer capacitance (Cc) is obtained by fabricating compensating positive feedback into a bipolar NPN transistor pair. The simultaneous fabrication of PN junction compensating capacitors in monolithic silicon enables the neutralization to be achieved for arbitrary bias and temperature conditions and over a wide frequency range."
"Integrated circuit amplifiers are a common building block in many analog systems. For high performance applications, high gain amplifiers are used with heavy feedback. For versatility as a feedback amplifier, the open loop response should not exhibit an excess of uncompensated poles. Previously, the necessary frequency compensation has not been achieved in fully integrated amplifiers. Bulky discrete element RC circuits have been connected to external terminals provided on the integrated circuit for such purpose."
"A systematic and general method of computing ac and dc characteristics of double-diffused junction transistors is described using major process parameters such as: dimensions of the device, surface concentration, junction depth, diffusion time, temperature, and diffusion coefficient as a function of temperature and impurity concentration. These parameters can be checked during the process and, therefore, can aid the process control problem by predicting the expected values of junction depth and sheet resistivity. If the specified control parameters are met during the fabrication, the ac and dc characteristics of the device will be realized. The time and/or frequency response of a circuit can be computed using the ac and dc characteristics of the diffused devices of the circuit on the basis of a distributed or an equivalent lumped model. The measurement of important ac parameters on the basis of these models has also been simulated on the computer, thus aiding the characterization problem of the device in the integrated circuit environment. Also, the switching speed of a loaded logic net can be computed and optimized by trading off interacting parameters and relating them back to the original diffusion process parameters and dimensions of the components. Finally, experimental verification of the computed results has been accomplished and found to be satisfactory."
"A linear differential amplifier was designed in dielectric isolated integrated circuit form for reduction of weight and heat dissipation in space probes. Radiation damage resistance was also a consideration. A dielectrically isolated structure was chosen to provide the resistance to radiation damage, since such units have proven capable of receiving over 1015is fast neutrons without failing. Thin film resistors were chosen over diffused resistors, partly for radiation damage resistance and partly because of the close matching tolerances necessary."
"The planar distributed function generator (PDFG) is a new type of analog computing element based on monolithic integral circuit techniques. It can be designed by a computer to provide a variety of functions -- logarithmic, sinusoidal, square-law, air-date, ballistic, etc. As a basic nonlinear element in analog systems, the device can replace diode-resistor networks, shaped potentiometers, resolvers, cams, and other bulky or expensive components."
"In integrated-circuit resistors current never flows unidirectionally. Indeed, for many integrated-circuit resistors three spatial coordinates are needed to specify the flow lines at any point within the resistor. This occurs because electrical contacts are made on the top face rather than on the ends of the resistor and because often the contacts do not extend all the way to the bounding surfaces of the resistor. This paper describes a method for determining the resistance of integrated-circuit resistors that accounts for the three-dimensionality of the current flow. The method involves solving the three-dimensional boundary value problem for the electroslatic potential. From the gradient of the potential one then finds the current that flows for a given voltage applied between the terminals. The work in this paper contrasts sharply with previous treatments of integrated-circuit resistors, none of which has accounted for three-dimensional flow."
"Contains various advertisements, welcome messages, committee or program information, and other miscellaneous conference information. This may in some cases also include the table of contents, copyright statements, title-page or half title-pages, blank pages, venue maps or other general information relating to the conference that was part of the original conference proceedings."
"Presents the table of contents for the proceedings."
"Bulova Watch Company Electronics Division is currently engaged in developing precise, uniform, SSB crystal units at 3.0 and 5.0 MC, under sponsorship of the USAEC, USAERLDL, Ft. Monmouth, NJ, USA. Bulova's background and experience in the art of fabricating crystals in the region of 1.0 to 5.0 MC, for all applications, including filters, has resulted in the collating and evaluation of quantities of data affecting the uniformity of these crystal units. Data is presented covering the effects of contouring one or both sides of a blank on various physical and electrical parameters of the crystal unit. Particular emphasis is placed on simple relationships, so that a crystal designer with no more than a slide rule can quickly calculate physical dimensions and predict performance with an accuracy no less than that obtained in actual fabrication."
"Front matter may contain various miscellaneous pages grouped together. This can include the cover art, table of contents, copyright statements, contributor biographies, welcome messages, society-related news or program information, advertisements, and other and miscellaneous information relating to the particular issue as originally published."
"Contains various contributor biographies, advertisements, indexes, and other miscellaneous issue information. This may in some cases also include society or committee information, blank pages, covers or other general information relating to the particular issue as originally published."
"Front matter may contain various miscellaneous pages grouped together. This can include the cover art, table of contents, copyright statements, contributor biographies, welcome messages, society-related news or program information, advertisements, and other and miscellaneous information relating to the particular issue as originally published."
"Contains various contributor biographies, advertisements, indexes, and other miscellaneous issue information. This may in some cases also include society or committee information, blank pages, covers or other general information relating to the particular issue as originally published."
"Front matter may contain various miscellaneous pages grouped together. This can include the cover art, table of contents, copyright statements, contributor biographies, welcome messages, society-related news or program information, advertisements, and other and miscellaneous information relating to the particular issue as originally published."
"Presents a biographical entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
"Front matter may contain various miscellaneous pages grouped together. This can include the cover art, table of contents, copyright statements, contributor biographies, welcome messages, society-related news or program information, advertisements, and other and miscellaneous information relating to the particular issue as originally published."
"Presents a biographical entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
"This index covers all technical items that appeared in this periodical during the year."
"The index contains an entry for all items that appeared during the year"
"Contains various contributor biographies, advertisements, indexes, and other miscellaneous issue information. This may in some cases also include society or committee information, blank pages, covers or other general information relating to the particular issue as originally published."
"Provides a schedule of conference events and a listing of which papers were presented in each session."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"RF energy coupled between two or more transmitters radiating simultaneously at the same location can produce reradiated spurious interference at levels exceeding FCC and operational limitations. These notes discuss some practical system design methods for the reduction and control of such intermodulation products. Methods of control including transmitter PA high conversion loss, RF attenuation, isolation and filtering are presented. Examples of system design in the 150 Mc band using these methods are given along with techniques for measuring the results obtained."
"This paper will review the processes of spurious response generation in land-mobile receivers. The various types of spurious responses will be discussed. Formulas required to calculate the spurious response frequencies will be presented, and the use of a computer for spurious-response frequency prediction will be outlined. These computer spurious-response frequency predictions can be used as an aid in designing systems to avoid spurious. In addition, these predictions may be used by the receiver designer to minimize spurious. Several different methods of minimizing receiver spurious responses will be discussed since the various spurious mechanisms require different methods of reduction."
"In Washington, D. C. the telephone company operates a high capacity 150 megacycle BELLBOY Personal Paging System. This paper describes that system and how it works, the problems and solutions associated with multiple transmitters, and what we have learned in operating the system for the past two years."
"Laboratory measurements are presented which indicate the following conditions should be met when operating co-channel base stations: 1. Carriers should be held to an off-set frequency that does not vary more than approximately 100 cps. 2. Carrier offset should be either held as close to zero as is practical, or to some mid-audio frequency value so that the beat frequency and its harmonics can be attenuated with notch filters. 3. The signal level in the interference zone should be above a critical value that depends on limiter design. 4. Modulation levels should be equalized. 5. The distance between base stations should be kept less than 25 miles."
"Radiation characteristics of personal-portable communications devices tend to vary more widely than perhaps any other operating parameter, and yet in many cases, this characteristic is the determining factor in the range and effectiveness of these devices. Recognizing this basic specification requirement, the electronic Industries Association's new proposed standard for personal-portable communications equipment includes an open-field measurements section. This section is devoted exclusively to radiation measurements for both receivers and transmitters."
"Thermoelectric generators are devices which accomplish the direct conversion of heat into electricity. Although the thermoelectric effect has been known for more than a hundred years, it was not until the late 1940's with the advent of semiconductor technology that the use of this effect as a practical means of generating electrical power could be foreseen. Today, thermoelectric generators are reliable, economical, off-the-shelf power supplies available to fill a wide variety of needs. These devices are playing an increasing role in the field of mobile communications."
"It is the aim of this paper to report a breakthrough in the state-of-the-art which permits significant improvements for two-way communication system performance through the use of an r- f crystal filter. The mathematical analysis for receiver intermodulation is developed and is related to system performance with and without an r-f crystal filter."
"This rating system (one minute maximum ON and four minutes minimum OFF) recognizes the trend toward shorter transmission time and higher power without impairing the useful service life of the tube. Continuous operation under these conditions is not to result in catastrophic failure. The mechanisms of failure are discussed. Existing types can be re-rated wlth an approximate increase in power output of 30%; the actual value varies greatly according to the conservatism of the basic design of each tube. New tubes designed especially for Push-to-Talk Service with such features as high thermal inertia anodes have shown that as much as an 80% increase in power output can be obtained with respect to the prototype."
"Within the past year, marked progress has been made in the development of a class of low frequency ceramic tone filters offering significant advantages over existing filters in the 50 to 9000 cps range. These filters utilize a pair of piezoelectric ceramic Bimorph elements mounted and connected so that stress cancellation occurs in the base region and the operation approaches that of an ideal double cantilever structure. When operated as a three terminal filter device an asymmetrical response characteristic is obtained with a pole of attenuation on one side of the passband or the other. This pole can be placed on either side of the passband. In addition, this pole can be moved arbitrarily close to the passband. An equivalent circuit is presented which explains both of these features. A 2000 cps filter can be mounted in a package which is 0.25\" in diameter and 0.62\" long, has a volume of 0.03 cubic inches, and weighs only 0.01 ounces. A 200 cps filter would be about 1.8\" long. Typical response curves will be presented showing 6 db bandwidths of about 4% and minimum power insertion losses ranging from 3 to 8 db. With minor modifications these piezo-electric tuning forks can be used as resonant reed relays which require 100, 000 times less power than magnetic resonant reed relays. In addition, piezoelectric resonant reed relays offer substantial savings in size and weight as well as immunity to stray magnetic fields. Both the filters and the resonant reed relays are made from a filter ceramic whose temperature dependence and aging characteristics have proven satisfactory in a wide variety of commercial and military applications."
"The development of high power semiconductor technology has suggested that the mechanical antenna relay should be replaced by a highly reliable solid state system. Many approaches to this problem are possible using forward and reverse biasing with various types of switching diodes. However, the advantages of simplicity and convenience make the r-f activated system very attractive. The term \"r-f activated\" is used to mean a \"block box\" that has only three terminals; one each for the antenna, receiver, and transmitter. In its passive state the receiver is connected to the antenna and the transmitter is isolated. Application of r-f to the transmitter terminal connects the antenna to the transmitter and isolates the receiver. Two major problems must be overcome in order to make a useful r-f activated antenna switch. First, because of power loss in the unbiased switching diodes, considerable r-f power is lost during transmission requiring higher input power and large expensive power diodes. The second problem arises from the low threshold voltage of a simple P-N junction diode. Therefore, spurious antenna power can break down the switching diodes during the receiving mode. These problems have been solved by the unique application of known semiconductor phenomena."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"This paper considers the application of satellite relay techniques to provide communication paths for aircraft-ground communication over the ocean. It considers the feasibility of a communication system design for air traffic control (ATC) utilizing the reflex repeater as the basic satellite-borne relay device. Implementation of satellite relay techniques would permit continuous line-of-sight operation for reliable ATC digital data links and voice transmission. The paper describes the basic use of the relay system, the repeater electronics, and the communication link parameters required to accommodate the satellite-aircraft link geometries. Examples of typical aircraft-ground link calculations are presented, and the basic supersonic aircraft communication requirements and satellite contact profiles are discussed."
"Signal fading at 836 Mc on a mobile radio transmission path using directional antennas on the mobile unit was investigated and compared with that from an omnidirectional antenna. A marked reduction in fading rate was observed with the directional antenna. Increasing the directivity decreased the fading rate. The average propagation loss was also measured for the various antennas over the two-mile signal path."
"Propagation experiments were run at 836 Mc between a fixed omnidirectional base station and a mobile station using a directional antenna. On typical residential streets it was found that the antenna orientation had only a small effect on the average signal level and that the fading rate was significantly reduced. It was also discovered that the fading rate expressed as a function of antenna direction has definite minima and maxima. These are related to two factors, the direction of motion of the vehicle and the direction from the vehicle to the base station. In general, minimum fading occurs along and at right angles to the direction of motion and in the direction of the base station."
"The design principles, construction, and performance of a ten-foot whip antenna for use with radio communication sets covering the frequency range from 30 to 76 MHz are described. The antenna is insensitive to changes in environment, with respect to electrical performance. It has uniform azimuthal distribution of radiation, optimum gain at the horizon, and is suited as an element of antenna arrays. Some of the design features which provide advantages in these respects over conventional vertical antennas, are: Control of the current distribution by means of a variable reactor between the base of the radiator and \"ground\", judicious choice of antenna length and feed-point position, and internal broadband matching."
"An experimental investigation was conducted to determine whether the degradation in electrical performance commonly observed with reduced-height helical-wound vertical dipoles can be avoided. A new design approach has been explored which helped define a major cause of this degradation. Data obtained during this investigation supports a working hypothesis that losses associated with circulating currents in the capacitance between turns of a helically wound, electrically short vertical dipole greatly reduce antenna bandwidth and efficiency. The final foreshortened model explored during this investigation met the design objectives for efficiency and interchangeability with the 10 foot whip of the reference antenna. Although other investigators have explored various characteristics of short helical radiators, the design principles evolved during this investigation appear to be new and have produced interesting and unexpectedly favorable results."
"The use of diversity reception has often been suggested as a means of overcoming multipath fading in mobile radio propagation, and various combining schemes have been used. An experimental 836 MHz dual channel, space diversity receiver has been built which brings to a common phase and combines two independent signals using a scheme of phase equalizing by multiple heterodyning. This paper describes the system and propagation tests using unmodulated carriers."
"No reliable method of measuring absolute levels of noise close to the carrier of present day mobile radio transmitters has been available. The difficulty has been the large difference in levels of the carrier and noise. A new technique for measuring absolute noise power spectra near an unmodulated transmitter carrier has been developed. This technique depends on cancellation of the coherent carrier against itself without affecting nearby non-coherent transmitter noise. Equipment using this technique is shown to be adequate for measuring transmitter noise (per kc of bandwidth) more than 110db below the carrier, and for noise 10 kc or more from a 150 mc carrier. This is adequate for the best mobile transmitters we know of, but feasible methods for increasing the range by more than 30 db, and for use at higher frequency bands are suggested. It is also highly stable. This method could provide the basis for specification of maximum transmitter noise levels on an absolute power basis."
"The technique described in this paper is classed as a near-field method wherein the measuring probe is located less than 5-feet from the interference energy source. It provides a means for expressing the magnitude of the interference energy in quantitative terms which are independent of the receiver and antenna characteristics as well as the propagation anomalies experienced in the field intensity measurement technique. It is non-critical in setup and involves a minimum of adjustments following the initial calibration procedure. A 20-db improvement in measurement range is available, which enables positive evaluation of the effectiveness of suppression even down to the normal sensitivity threshold of mobile receivers. Each of the principal elements of the measurement system will be described in terms of those characteristics which have a direct bearing on this application. In addition, a brief analysis of the noise spectra will be presented."
"The purpose of this Standard is to provide a uniform method of measurement of radio noise generated by a motor vehicle, which may affect the performance of mobile communications receivers in the vehicle."
"Presents the cover/table of contents for the proceedings."
"This paper follows the progress of the work done over the past thirty years on interference from motor vehicles. Early problems in the development of instrumentation are described as are the test programs which led to the development of standards designed to protect television reception from vehicular interference. Reference is made to European standards and the reasons why it has been impossible to arrive at conformity between the U. S. and European standards. Mention is made of the changing criteria for interference which is making it necessary to update the presently used U. S. standard, and the hope that the new specification will be compatible with the new international standard."
"Increased usage of the Land Mobile Service, increasing sensitivity of receivers, and greater demands on communication systems are causing attention to be directed toward interference radiated from automotive ignition systems. Although U.S. vehicles are presently designed to limit radiation, lack of uniformity exists between standards in North America and Europe resulting in duplication of test work. The United States automotive industry is cooperating in the development of a world-wide standard using a unique sampling procedure, and has used new computer techniques to derive a greater amount of information from data available. Revisions now under way in the U.S. industry Standard will provide procedures and limits to 1000 MHz, will protect all present TV bands, and will make our standards compatible with Common Market usage. Theoretical studies and testing show that vehicular radiation decreases above 400 MHz and that existing techniques may prove satisfactory. Joint studies of an FCC-industry group are expected to develop additional information."
"This paper describes the approach that has been made in the U.K. toward narrower channel spacing for VHF mobile radio. Equipment of the type in current use for 25 kc/s channel spacing was modified for field trials with 12½ kc/s channel spacing, and successful field trials were conducted. The same equipment was then supplied to the British Post Office who conducted their own successful field trials and have since announced their decision to make 12½ kc/s spacing compulsory for new schemes after April 1967."
"Experimental measurements of mobile radio transmission have been made in a suburban area at 0.836 GHz and 11.2 GHz. The results are presented in terms of average transmission loss, level crossing rates, power spectra, average duration of fades, and probability distributions. Fading rates were predictably higher at 11.2 GHz but the average excess path loss over the free space calculation was comparable to the values obtained at UHF, lending encouragement to possible exploitation of the higher microwave bands for mobile radio."
"This paper briefly describes the advantages of Single Sideband for the Citizens Radio Service, and converts the needs of this service to a working set of specifications for an SSB transceiver. Performance, reliability and economic considerations were the paramount objectives. Design techniques of the resulting low cost solid state transceiver are discussed. These include design features and performance of the bilateral modulator-detector, diode switching, squelch, noise silencer, and transmitter circuitry. A discussion of the resulting field performance of the SSB transceiver versus its AM counterparts is also presented."
"This paper describes the conventional methods of receiving both Ship to Ship band and Public Correspondence band on Shipborne installations. A new method of dual band reception using a single receiver is then described. In conclusion the growth of the VHF Marine Communications system in North America over the past year is discussed."
"This paper shows how the type 8560A metal ceramic tetrode can be used in a compact conduction cooled cavity at 470 MHz. This system offers significant advantages over more conventional fan cooled cavities or lumped circuit amplifiers."
"An attempt to reduce multipath fading in UHF mobile radio communication by the use of a space diversity receiver has been made. A multiple channel 836 MHz predetection diversity combining receiver using phase equalization by multiple heterodyning has been built and evaluated. The fading range in the combined signal is greatly reduced over that in an individual signal and there is a significant difference in its statistical nature. In addition an improvement in receiver threshold with four channels combined was observed."
"Three experimental 150 MHz transmitters, located about Albany, New York, have been slaved to a common synchronizing signal by means of phase-lock techniques and wire lines. By achieving excellent, long term relative stability, routine frequency adjustments and annoying beat frequencies are eliminated. Details and performance of a modular system, which makes available any number up to 11 assigned channels, are discussed."
"This paper gives a description of a completely solid state, all silicon repeater station of the direct-frequency translation type. An outline of the followed design criteria and of the problems encountered is also given."
"This paper describes utilization of the energy density concept to reduce the effect of signal fading. An antenna was developed which could receive three field components Ez, Hx, and Hysimultaneously from a mobile radio field. Summing the squares of these signals then gave an output proportional to the energy density. Comparing the observed level crossing rates, the average duration of fades, and the power spectra of the electric field alone with those of the energy density signal, it was found that the latter faded much less frequently than the E field. A theoretical analysis was developed from a simple statistical model, with results that were in reasonable agreement with experiment."
"A report is made on a study, of the \"average voice\" resulting in an electronic synthetic speech signal suitable for testing mobile radio systems in particular. An analysis of the frequency and level distributions, with respect to time, of a large number of \"talkers\" precedes a description of the synthetic voice signal. The design outline of a device, which could produce such a signal, is suggested along with comments about its use."
"This is a narrative monograph on the evolutionary progress of Marine Corps vehicular radio equipments. Emphasis is placed on the technical problems associated with higher power SSB equipments installed in tactical vehicles."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Subjects were presented with data, described as the simulated output of a computerized radar system, consisting of dots that could fall in any one of twelve sectors. They were told that the process generating the data might be in any one of four mutually exclusive states. Displays showed for each state how likely it was that each dot would fall in each sector; an auxiliary display showed the prior probabilities of each of the four states. Subjects were required to estimate posterior probabilities of each state after each datum; comparison of these estimates with the correct values calculated from Bayes' theorem provided the dependent variables."
"Subjects observed sequences of data drawn from binomial populations. After each observation in a data sequence Ss divided the continuum of proportions, from 0 to 1, into three intervals such that each interval was equally likely to contain the population proportion. The boundaries of the subjective intervals were generally quite similar to the corresponding boundaries of the Bayesian posterior distributions, especially after the first few observations in each data sequence. However, a theoretical conservatives S, accumulating information at the rate of only one-half datum per observation, also generated boundaries quite near the Bayesian boundaries. This degree of conservatism in the revision of a continuous subjective probability distribution does not preclude a relatively high degree of accuracy in the placement of credible interval boundaries."
"This study explored the manner in which the desirability of an event influences its judged probability. Ss gave probability estimates for each of 5 events, only one of which could occur. Monetary payoffs, ranging from lose $5 to win $5, were contingent upon which event did occur. Desirability was found to bias probability estimates in a complex manner which varied systematically between Ss and between estimation trials. In general, it made estimates less reasonable. Rewards for accuracy did not reduce value biases. Instead, they encouraged ``risk-reducing pessimism.'' Individual differences were an important source of variance. Some Ss were consistently optimistic. Others were quite pessimistic."
"Using Bayes' theorem as the normative model, four experiments examined the consistency with which subjective probabilities were revised in light of additional data. Consistency was found to be extremely high under all experimental conditions, and it was shown to be independent of the accuracy of Ss' subjective probabilities; Ss apparently apply a revision rule that is similar to Bayes' theorem to whatever subjective probabilities they possess at the moment regardless of the accuracy of their probabilities."
"This report describes three experiments on Bayesian diagnostic systems. A system simulation facility provides the dynamics of a real-time environment in which the military activities of a fictitious adversary are portrayed. On the basis of intelligence data describing events in this hostile environment, a threat-evaluation team provides diagnoses regarding the threat posed by deployments of hostile military forces. The diagnoses are in the form of posterior probability estimates. The estimates made by men are compared with those calculated on the basis of a modification of Bayes' theorem. The inputs for these calculations are P(D|H) estimates produced by the same individuals who estimated the posterior probabilities. The results encourage further research on automated Bayesian hypothesis-selection procedures in threat-diagnosis systems."
"This paper outlines a theory of Probabilistic Information Processing and describes three experimental studies testing that theory. The theory is based on certain principles of Bayesian statistical decision theory and is designed as an aid to human diagnostic decision-making. The experiments were concerned with certain types of military diagnostic decisions."
"Presents a biographical entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication. "
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"The design of devices capable of duplicating the function of human extremities has become increasingly important in science, industry, and medicine. This paper presents an approach to the synthesis of control systems for such machines which results in extremely simple finite state controllers. The technique proposed rests on the definition of a new type of actuator, called a cybernetic actuator, which possesses the property of producing continuous controlled motion from an input which may assume only four distinct states. The application of such actuators to bioengineering systems is illustrated by the design of a control system for an artificial leg."
"These studies were concerned with assessing the ability of untrained Ss to monitor alphameric multi-channel displays for signals based upon the simultaneous values of all the channels. The number of channels to be monitored (8, 12, 16, or 24), the range of values per channel (2, 4, or 8), and the number of different signals, or critical sequences, to watch for (8, 16, or 24) were varied in three experiments. In Experiment I time between changes in the display was 10 seconds, in Experiment II it was 5 seconds, and in Experiment III it was 2.5 seconds. Experiment I indicated that Ss when monitoring 8 channels, correctly detected over 95 percent of the signals. In Experiments I And II, Ss made 80 percent or more correct detections when watching up to 16 channels. performance continued to decrease with a further increase in the number of channels to be watched and with a further increase in the rate of display change. Levels per channel were important only when either 16 or more channels were monitored or when the display hanged every 2.5 seconds. As the number of different critical sequences (signals) for which Ss watched increased, correct responses decreased significantly, although this variable exerted the least effect upon performance."
"A one-dimensional three-state relay control task in which human operators served as the active switching and equalization element was employed to compare performance in three display conditions and to derive measures of performance that might prove useful for further development of models of human tracking behavior. Two displays which provided explicit velocity information in the form of a unidimensional error-velocity vector superimposed on a compensatory error display and two-dimensional phase-plane display of error velocity vs. displacement were shown to enhance learning over that produced by the usual compensatory display of error, but only with the highest value of system gain, 30 cm/second<R>2</R>. An analysis of subjects' initial transient response represented as mean switching points in the phase-plane revealed remarkably little variability and switching performance close to that of an optimal minimum-time controller. Finally, in this and two subsidiary experiments, a measure of time to process visual feedback about the ongoing response process was derived that may provide a first step toward linking discrete reaction-time results to continuous manual-control performance."
"An investigation has been made into the feasibility of a tactile display for compensatory tracking."
"This paper discusses a means to describe and eventually to predict the response of a human or artificially intelligent controller which 1) has a constrained preview of the actual input course and which 2) observes the successive target values as being of nonuniform importance. Three examples are: driving an automobile in traffic, a blind pedestrian using a cane or electronic obstacle detector, and remote manipulation of solid objects using artificial sensors and effectors. Three models are presented which characterize constrained preview control better than can conventional transfer function techniques."
"Presents a biographical entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication. "
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Four combinations of sequence length and keyset size were selected to give 22.3 bits of information per sequence in each case. Two visual display conditions were used with each of the four combinations: a continuous display where the sequence remained in view throughout keying, and an on-demand display where the sequence disappeared once keying started but could be made to reappear when the subject pressed a button. Results indicate that keying was faster and more accurate with the short sequences and the large keyset, in contrast with the long sequences and the small keyset. These differences were particularly large where the ondemand display was used."
"This study demonstrates that the human-operator transfer function approach may be generalized; from a variety of published experimental data, \"capability bounds\" upon the transfer function parameters are formed. With such ranges defined, these parameters, forming a type of variable structure, can be used as a mapping function to display in the complex plane the boundaries of human adaptive capacity. These boundaries contain a collection of \"critical points\" which, used in conjunction with the plant Nyquist contour, permit interpretation of system stability characteristics. Experimental verification of the theory is obtained from previously published empirical studies. A man-monitored system configuration also appears to be susceptible to such stability analysis."
"A most important time-varying problem in manual control systems is that of a step change in the controlled element, as typified by, say, a stability augmenter failure in a manned aircraft. This communication describes an experimental investigation aimed at understanding human operator behavior during such a change, and the determination of some limitations on operator descriptions and measurement methods which might be employed."
"Presents a biographical entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication. "
"In order that human factors scientists may be aware of books of interest to them among the ever-increasing number being published, reviews of several current titles will be included in each issue of this TRANSACTIONS. Comments and suggestions for this department are welcome, and contributed book reviews and recommendations of books for review (please include name, author, and publisher, if possible) are solicited."
"Summary form only given, as follows. The IEEE Transactions on Human Factors in Electronics are published to promote the dissemination of concepts, methods of experiment, results, and applications to design pertaining to man-machine systems. This includes such areas as Continuous manual control of vehicles and industrial processes; basic motor skills Man-computer decision making; computer displays and input techniques; user-oriented languages; computer-aided instruction (CAI) Communication devices and techniques in normal and unusual environments; applied sensory research; signal detection and pattern recognition System simulation and design; training of operators; operator performance in vigilance and monitoring tasks; maintenance and reliability techniques Large-scale man-machine systems; consumer preference evaluation techniques; accident prevention and safety. Acceptable papers may range from mathematical modeling and computer simulation, through laboratory experimentation to system design and field evaluation. Papers describing successful application of conventional theory and techniques in conventional problem areas are not ordinarily acceptable. Papers previously published in journals of wide public circulation are not acceptable. First priority will be given to papers in areas of current interest which contribute original ideas soundly presented. Tutorial or review papers in such areas are also welcome. Each paper is normally submitted to three referees, either members of the editorial board or others, who, in the opinion of the editor, are recognized experts in fields appropriate to the particular paper. A referee is at liberty to disqualify himself and suggest another whom he considers more suitable. Short communications are encouraged. These may be abbreviated papers, relevant comments on other papers published in these TRANSACTIONS, authors' rebuttals to same, or letters to the editor. Reviews of appropriate new books are also solicited."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Variational methods are used to solve a particular pursuit-evasion differential game. The problem involves the determination of optimal strategies for both the pursuer and evader. The performance measure is the miss distance at some fixed terminal time. Both pursuer and evader have limited control energy. The performance of a trained research pilot, for both single and two-axis control tasks is compared with that of the optimal pursuer. State vector display and ``quickened'' display are discussed. The results suggest that differential game problems could be quite useful in the study of manual control."
"A ``critical'' tracking task is developed in which a human operator is required to stabilize an increasingly unstable first-order controlled element up to the critical point of loss of control. Servo theory and operator describing function measurements are used to validate the basic assumptions, and an automatically paced critical task mechanization is described. The results show that the task does constrain the operator's behavior as intended, and that the critical instability depends primarily on the operator's effective time delay while tracking. A number of applications for the critical task are reviewed, including secondary workload research, control and measurement of operator and controlled element gain, and display research."
"Twenty men were tested in step-input tracking. Minor stress was imposed by moderate alcohol dosage and an incompatible directional relation between control and display. Some target movements demanded a response in an improbable direction and posed a choice between long delay in response and a movement in the wrong direction. The duration of response latency (rl) and the number of directional errors revealed a Ss preference for accuracy or speed and his ability to estimate probabilities."
"A control stick with a built-in tactile aiding device was tested in a simulated car-following situation. The tactile device gave the driver of a following car information—headway and relative velocity—concerning the state of a lead car. Experimental results (relative velocity and headway variance) with the simulator were compared with those obtained using conventional automobile controls in a similar situation. Sizeable reductions in these quantities, 55 and 85 percent, respectively, were obtained when the tactile display was partially quickened. Some evidence indicated that the driver behaved as an amplifier when using such a display."
"In the present paper we will discuss the task of a pilot (namely of a high performance jet plane) sampling the information given to him by the instruments on his panel. We will present a model that attempts to explain and match the behavior of pilots under actual flight conditions. This model is based on the concept of the different instruments competing for the attention of the pilot. Some may be unimportant under a given flight condition, but many should be looked at, the urgency of doing so being measured by the risk incurred if the corresponding value is beyond a certain threshold. Costs are assigned to each instrument; at each sampling instant the decision as to what instrument to look at is based on comparing for the different instruments the combined effect of both the probability of exceeding the threshold and a cost of exceeding that threshold. Effectively, the instruments queue for the pilot's attention; the instrument with the highest priority at each instant is then served (looked at)."
"Man's ability to detect visual signals in noise is the concern of this paper. An operator is presented a computer generated two dimensional binary—or ``dot''—display and is asked to indicate the presence or absence of a ``signal.'' Previously developed signal detectability theory is expanded. A model of the operator as a threshold detector hampered by a Gaussian noise source is developed. The noise source is defined by two parameters—first and second moment operator factors, ε and ϒ. The most important parameter, ϒ, is investigated experimentally and found to be essentially independent of signal to noise ratio, SNR. This is interpreted to mean that the noise source decrements the actual SNR by 2 to 3 dB and that the operator sets a near optimum decision threshold as a function of SNR."
"This paper comprises a bibliography of some two hundred entries, selected from a total collection of almost five hundred references pertaining to the human operator, which are concerned specifically with modeling the human operator as an element in an automatic control system. To enable systematic utilization of the material, the important papers are classed in Section A, the Bibliography Subject Index, under major subheads, and then arranged chronologically within each subject category. Included within these categories are many of the original papers dealing with human operator models, including British and U. S. classified reports produced after World War II, which have since been declassified. Up-to-date private-industry reports, which are generally difficult to learn of or locate, are included, as is a wealth of material stemming from federal agencies, principally NASA. Section B comprises the actual bibliography."
"Presents a biographical entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication. "
"The following author listings include title of paper, page number, and month, (C) indicates Communication."
"Summary form only given, as follows. The IEEE Transactions on Human Factors in Electronics are published to promote the dissemination of concepts, methods of experiment, results, and applications to design pertaining to man-machine systems. This includes such areas as Continuous manual control of vehicles and industrial processes; basic motor skills Man-computer decision making; computer displays and input techniques; user-oriented languages; computer-aided instruction (CAI) Communication devices and techniques in normal and unusual environments; applied sensory research; signal detection and pattern recognition System simulation and design; training of operators; operator performance in vigilance and monitoring tasks; maintenance and reliability techniques Large-scale man-machine systems; consumer preference evaluation techniques; accident prevention and safety. Acceptable papers may range from mathematical modeling and computer simulation, through laboratory experimentation to system design and field evaluation. Papers describing successful application of conventional theory and techniques in conventional problem areas are not ordinarily acceptable. Papers previously published in journals of wide public circulation are not acceptable. First priority will be given to papers in areas of current interest which contribute original ideas soundly presented. Tutorial or review papers in such areas are also welcome. Each paper is normally submitted to three referees, either members of the editorial board or others, who, in the opinion of the editor, are recognized experts in fields appropriate to the particular paper. A referee is at liberty to disqualify himself and suggest another whom he considers more suitable. Short communications are encouraged. These may be abbreviated papers, relevant comments on other papers published in these TRANSACTIONS, authors' rebuttals to same, or letters to the editor. Reviews of appropriate new books are also solicited."
"An introductory review of the equivalent electric circuit of a piezoelectric vibrator and its parameters is followed by a discussion of the determination of these parameters by the transmission method. This method was published in 1951 and became the basis for the 1957 IRE Standard. Since that time, a thorough investigation of the transmission method has resulted in more precise expressions which permit a more accurate evaluation of the parameters. This method is suitable for frequencies up to about 30 MHz for the commonly encounted ranges of the capacitance ratio r and the figure of merit M, provided that errors due to instrumentation are taken into account. The equations presented in this Standard have been formulated to correct these errors.<<ETX>>"
"Guidelines to be used in developing and applying those symbols that are employed in the electrical and electronics fields are provided. These include abbreviations, functional designations, graphic symbols, letter combinations, mathematical symbols, reference designations, symbols for quantities, and symbols for units. The guidelines should be useful to any committee engaged in developing standards publications in the areas mentioned."
"Redesignated as IEEE C37.34e. The technical requirements for the design, fabrication, testing, and installation of a gas-insulated substation (GIS) are covered; its intent is advisory. This guide discusses parameters to be supplied by the purchaser and technical requirements for the design, fabrication, testing, and installation to be furnished by the manufacturer. Environmental conditions, general and specific equipment requirements, and a proposal data sheet form are included to aid the user."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"This article treats the tree circuit synthesis problem for families F= {f1, f2, ···, fm} of Boolean functions fj of the same three variables. In addition to the development of criteria for determining the most economical of the three possible tree circuit decompositions: (j= 1, 2,···, m) of a given family, certain upper bounds BT(3, m) are obtaie···,d on the \" tree circuit cost\" T( F) of such a fmily; these have the property tha regardless of the mebers of F, the in-equality T(F)≤BT(3, m) holds and furthermore, a family Fists in which actualy attains this upper bound. These upper bounds or estimates are known to have a wide application in switching theory generally, and in particular in the theory of tree circuits and in the decomposition theory of Boolean functions."
"This article treats the tree circuit synthesis problem for families F = {f1, f2, . . ., fm} of Boolean functions fj of the same three variables. In addition to the development of criteria for determining the most economical of the three possible tree circuit decompositions: fj(X3, X2, X1) = F3j,(G3j(X2, X1), H3j(X2, X1), X3) fj(x3, X2, X1) = F2j(G2j(x3, x1), H2j(x3, X1), X2) fj(X3, X2, X1) = F1j(G1j(X3, X2), H1j(X3, X2), X1) (j = 1, 2, ..., m) of a given family, certain upper bounds BT(3, m) are obtained on the ``tree circuit cost'' T(F) of such a family; these have the property that regardless of the members of F, the inequality T(F)≤BT(3, m) holds and furthermore, a family F exists which actually attains this upper bound. These upper bounds or estimates are known to have a wide application in switching theory generally, and in particular in the theory of tree circuits and in the decomposition theory of Boolean functions."
"A distinct and straightforward method to test and realize linearly-separable switching functions is presented. This method makes use of a universal map which facilitates the generation of inequalities and the detection of contradictions. It also eliminates any preprocessing (such as positivizing and ordering) of a given function. The concept of composite level is first defined. A map is then developed, which is not restricted by the number of variables in the given function. A switching function can be easily mapped. A simple process is presented to generate inequalities by inspection. This process will either conclude that the given function is not linearly-separable or generate a set of composite levels and, consequently, a set of weights for the threshold switching device. Two illustrative examples are provided."
"This paper presents a method for determining, from the flow table of a sequential machine, whether the machine is linearly realizable using the minimum number of unit delay elements. The method is an extension of a previously presented method for autonomous machines. A linearity algorithm is presented for each of two cases: 1) where the output is given and is to be linear, and 2) where the output is either not given or may be nonlinear. The method is simple, straightforward, and, in general, provides a ready solution to the linearity problem."
"Conditions for equilibrium states in Boolean nets by delay-free feedback are investigated. The result is a new class of circuits called memories, the simplest member of which is the ordinary set-reset flip-flop. A memory is defined as an asynchronous sequential machine with specific properties. The need for gain in feedback loops and the assumption that each amplifier is a NOT operator make it possible to state two theorems on the equilibrium codes. In algebraic treatment it is shown how to design a memory from a given state assignment. Symmetric Boolean memories include multistable flip-flops but also, for instance, a decadic memory utilizing only five inverters."
"This paper investigates 1) the problem of finding lower bounds on the computation times of on-line Turing machines, and 2) the trade-off relationship between computation time and tape dimensionality. It considers problems in which a Turing machine is supplied with a sequence of inputs representing data to be stored on the machine's tape(s), followed by a sequence of inputs requesting the machine to find and examine various portions of the stored data. The approach taken is to assume that the machine has been designed to read in and store data in such a way as to minimize the time required to subsequently locate arbitrary portions of that data. This approach sometimes makes it possible to find good lower bouds on the computation time (number of machine steps) needed to process the portion of the input sequence that calls for the retrieval of data. It is shown that there are some problems in which an increase in tape dimensionality appreciably reduces the computation time needed. But it is already known that increasing the number of a machine's tapes (beyond two) does not appreciably decrease the computation time needed. Thus, tape dimensionality and tape multiplicity are parameters that affect computation time in basically different ways."
"A multi-threshold element is one in which several thresholds are used to separate the true inputs from the false inputs. Many circuit elements and configurations can be described by this model. An approach, based on conventional single-threshold threshold elements, is developed for the analysis and synthesis of multithreshold threshold elements. It is shown that the basic properties of such elements are similar to conventional threshold elements, and that k-threshold threshold-element realizability of an arbitrary n-variable Boolean function can be related to conventional threshold-element realizability of a related (n+k-1)-variable Boolean function. Foundations for two basically different methods for the synthesis of a single-element realization of an arbitrary Boolean function are developed, as are procedures for transforming such a realization into both two-level and multilevel loop-free networks of k-threshold threshold elements k≥1. Every element in the networks has the identical weight vector for the independent variables, which is some-times desirable. The transformation technique is a useful approach to the synthesis of functions by networks of conventional threshold elements. It is proved that if the given function requires a k-threshold threshold element, then at least [k/2+I] conventional threshold elements in a two-level network or [1+log2 k] such elements in a multilevel network are required. Transformations are given for corresponding minimum-gate networks. Electronic-circuit realizations of multi-threshold elements and some logical-design applications of the multi-threshold approach to network design are discussed. The latter indicate that this approach can be easy to use and can result in economical realizations."
"A procedure is described for finding, by shortcut methods, a near-minimal set of tests for detecting all single faults in a combinational logic net. The procedure should prove useful for nets which are too large to be treated by more exact methods [2]. The set of tests so found also appears useful for diagnosing (i.e., locating) faults. The class of faults considered is that which causes connections to be stuck at logical one or logical zero. The nets considered may include AND, OR, NAND, NOR, and NOT gates. The bases of the procedure are the ``path sensitizing'' concept, and reduction of a net to its ``equivalent normal form,'' abbreviated enf. It is shown that if a set of tests can be found which detects an appropriate subset of faults in the enf, this set will detect all faults in the original net. The enf also provides a vehicle for systematically finding the most desirable tests, namely those which each detect many faults in the net. The procedure is illustrated in detail by an example."
"The COBLOC programming system was written to enable all-digital simulation of the operation of large mode-controlled hybrid computers. The COBLOC programming language is block-oriented and is easily learned, even by those without prior analog or digital computer programming experience. The inclusion of patchable logic simulation in COBLOC has extended the application of digital simulation techniques to a greater variety of problems. Results are presented as graphic outputs, in addition to tabular outputs, for convenient analysis of results. The features of the COBLOC programming system that contribute to its usefulness in simulating the operation of a hybrid computer are described. A brief summary of the internal operation of the COBLOC compiler is included. COBLOC was written for the CDC 1604 and 3600 computers and has been used in the solution of a wide variety of problems of varying complexity. COBLOC and similar programs have significant value in generating check solutions and information for scaling for studies to be conducted on hybrid computers, as well as being satisfactory substitutes for hybrid computation in many simulations."
"A classification of the objectives and types of parallel processing gives the context of the prinicipal subjects of this paper. A compiler and machine organization which are capable of detecting opportunities for parallel processing in algebraic expressions and executing these by multiple processing units operating concurrently are described. The compiler algorithm, based on a tree structure of algebraic expressions, translates the expression into an object program containing concurrency groups of instructions. Within each such group. all of the instructions can be executed at the same time. The machine organization (described in a schematic way) includes a simple control for executing the object program by allocating instructions to processors within a group and interlocking advance to the next group until execution of the current group is completed."
"The problem of recognizing a large alphabet (1000 different characters) is approached using a two stage process. In the first stage of design, the data is partitioned into groups of similar characters by means of heuristic and iterative algorithms. In the second stage, peephole templates are generated for each character in such a way as to guarantee discrimination against other characters in the same similarity class. Recognition is preceded by establishing an order of search through the groups with a relatively small number of ``group masks.'' The character is then identified by means of the ``individual masks.'' through a threshold criterion. The effects on the error and reject rates of varying the several parameters in the design and test procedure are described on the basis of computer simulation experiments on a 20 000 character data set. An error rate of 1 percent with 7 percent rejects, is obtained on new data."
"Two corrections are presented: (1) The authors of the paper \"An Algorithm for Linear Inequalities and Applications,\" which appeared on pages 683-688 of the October, 1965, issue of these Transactions, has called the following to the attention of the Editor. It was established in this paper that the algorithm converges to the solution (if one exists) in a finite number of steps and that the convergence is exponential. We would like to point out that, for any finite algorithm, exponential convergence is superfluous since it is always possible to find an exponential trajectory which dominates any strictly decreasing and finite trajectory. The particular proof for exponential convergence in the paper is, however, erroneous. Nevertheless, this fact \"will not disturb any of the results, theoretical or experimental, mentioned in the paper. We would like to thank C.C. Blaydon for this correction and Prof. T.M. Cover for his suggestions during the review of the paper. Correction (2): The author of the short note \"Logical Design of Analog-to-Digital Converters,\" which appeared on pages 740-741 of the October, 1965, issue of these Transactions, has called the following to the attention of the Editor. On page 740, column 2, the next to the last line, there is a comma after \"the most significant bit\" which should be deleted."
"This paper presents a synthesis method of ternary digital systems by means of a threshold algebra. The method is based on the fact that the K operations of any ternary function can be expressed as threshold operations on a set of functions called midterms. Such midterms can be easily generated from the outputs of the ternary multivibrators described by the authors in a previous paper [4]."
"This paper presents a synthesis method of ternary digital systems by means of a threshold algebra. The method is based on the fact that the K operations of any ternary function can be expressed as threshold operations on a set of functions called midterms. Such midterms can be easily generated from the outputs of the ternary multivibrators described by the authors in a previous paper [4]. The Quine method is extended to the minimization of ternary threshold normal forms. RTL circuits implementing the operations are described, and the threshold design of a fast carry propagation ternary adder is outlined in order to illustrate the method."
"In a recent paper,1 Hsiao and Sih proposed a method for transforming binary linear feedback shift registers (initially cleared) into a binary linear circuit with f input terminals and f output terminals which operates f times faster. In this manner, the availability of f channels, rather than one, can be exploited to process (and, in particular, encode and decode) data at a rate proportional to f. In this paper, a method of transformation is formulated which is applicable to arbitrary linear sequential circuits defined over an arbitrary modular field and subject to an arbitrary initial state."
"The gating of asynchronous signals causes logical errors. It is possible to reduce the frequency of these errors, but the price paid is a severe loss of time and extra cost in hardware."
"The problem considered in this paper is the design of a checking experiment which will determine from observation of input-output behavior whether a sequential switching circuit is operating correctly. An input sequence is applied to the circuit, and the output sequence is observed and compared to the correct output sequence which has been determined from the state table corresponding to the correctly operating circuit. The sequential machines under consideration here must be 1) strongly connected, 2) reduced, and 3) have a distinguishing sequence [1]. The malfunctions which occur in the circuit are assumed to be those which do not increase the number of states in the circuit. In Hennie [1], a general synthesis procedure is proposed for checking experiments on machines in the class defined previously. The procedure to be proposed here is a modification of that procedure for which the upper bound on the length is reduced. Familiarity with at least the first portion of Hennie [1] on the synthesis of checking experiments for machines having distinguishing sequences is assumed."
"One of the time-consuming procedures in the operation of a digital computer arises from the need to rearrange portions of words during the execution of certain instructions. In a typical situation, the first stage of a complex control sequence is concerned with the disassembly of the word prior to sending the parts to registers for appropriate arithmetic treatment, and the last stage with reassembly into standard format. This overhead can be wasteful even when the interregister wiring has been chosen with a particular format in mind, and is accentuated whenever a nonstandard format is encountered."
"A method of converting certain types of analog signals to digital form is described. The signals considered are those describing movement in a plane and are digitized by reference to a rectangular array of l's and O's."
"A method of converting certain types of analog signals to digital form is described. The signals considered are those describing movement in a plane and are digitized by reference to a rectangular array of 1's and 0's."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"A comprehensive listing of the articles and departments included in 1966."
"This index covers all technical items that appeared in this periodical during the year."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"This page or pages intentionally left blank."
"This page or pages intentionally left blank."
"This page or pages intentionally left blank."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"The Computer Group has decided to publish in alternate months, beginning in July, the Computer Group News. This will contain a guide to current literature, and information about manuscripts available from the repository. In view of this increase in publication activity, the value of the Information Retrieval Catalog Cards in the back of each issue of these TRANSACTIONS, and the value of the Abstracts of Current Computer Literature are being reviewed. If you make use of either of these items, please write to me immediately. If there is little or no response from our readers, the cards and/or the abstracts will probably be discontinued."
"A technique for solving a set of ordinary nonlinear differential equations of the form d Yi/d X = fi(Yi)gi(Y1, Y2, ..., Yn, X) is discussed. Sets of equations of this form describe such phenomena as heat transfer with variable specific heat, solid propellant burning with variable burning area, and chemical decomposition reactions with variable reagent temperatures. The technique is applicable to digital or analog computation; however, this paper deals only with its application to analog computing. An analog computer mechanization of one equation of the set, using the technique discussed, is illustrated and compared to the standard straightforward mechanization of the same equation. Comparison of the two mechanizations shows that one multiplier may be eliminated from the mechanization of each equation of the set by utilizing the alternate technique presented in this paper. If the set is large, this can result in significant equipment savings. Results from an example three-node heat transfer problem solved with the standard mechanization are compared with results obtained when the same system is solved by the alternate scheme proposed in this paper. The comparison shows that the two solutions are in good agreement."
"A comprehensive technical survey of Soviet switching theory and its applications to the logical design of digital systems reveals that, despite considerable activity (763 papers and books), the average state of the art in the U.S.S.R. is somewhat behind that in the U.S. However, there are a large number of noteworthy contributions, particularly in those aspects of the field dealing with complexity estimates of switching networks, synthesis of multiterminal circuits, the selection of logical primitives (building blocks), and certain minimization problems. This paper evaluates the Soviet position through June, 1964, compares it with that in the West, and summarizes the significant Soviet technical contributions. Recommendations are offered for initiating research in the United States in several special problem areas in switching theory."
"A method is illustrated for the selection of a minimal cost subset of prime implicants of a Boolean function. The selection problem is represented by a table (P-table), which is an extension of a prime implicant table. A technique for P-table reduction is presented, which allows tabular simplifications for cyclic prime implicant tables also."
"In this paper, a modification or generalization of Sheng's secondary ordering method for testing and realization of threshold functions is presented. Instead of assigning integral values to the incremental weights according to secondary ordering, a search for successively higher ordering is made, and incremental weights of higher orders are successively substituted back into the inequalities until finally no more higher ordering can be found. If the given function is a threshold function, it will turn out that the sum of the coefficients of all the terms on the left side of each of the inequalities will be greater than the sum of the coefficients of all the terms on the right side. Then a minimal integral assignment can be made by assigning unity to every incremental weight of any order appearing in the final set of inequalities. If the given function is not a threshold function, a contradiction will be revealed. Some theorems are proved to justify the method. A complete procedure for testing and realization is given. An example is worked out in detail to illustrate this method."
"This paper describes iterative procedures for determining linear and piecewise linear discriminant functions for multicategory pattern classifiers. While classifiers with the same structure have often been proposed, it is less well known that their parameters can be efficiently determined by simple adjustment procedures. For linear discriminant functions, convergence proofs are given for procedures that are guaranteed to yield error-free solutions on design samples, provided only that such solutions exist. While no similar results are known for piecewise linear discriminant functions, simple procedures are given that have been effective in various experiments. The results of experiments with artificially generated multimodal data and with hand-printed alphanumeric characters are given to show that this approach compares favorably with other classification methods."
"A new type of analog-to-digital converter is described. This converter presents one analog input and several outputs with two possible states. Each time, only one output is activated. The converter is built up with the following elements: controlled oscillator, saturated tuned amplifiers, detectors, and inverters. The converter principle is: a voltage input E1 feeds a controlled oscillator whose output volttages are E1 sin wt and -E sin wt, with E constant. These voltages feed the two sides of a voltage divider made up of resistors of convenient values. As the two voltages mentioned above are in phase opposition, one point of the divider, for each E1, presents zero potential. The detection of this zero potential point furnishes an activated output, for each input E1. A practical realization of the converter, all transistorized, is presented by the author."
"Optimal values for circuit parameters of nonlinear interpolating (NLI) half and full squarers and sine-wave generators are calculated. An exponential characteristic v = Ciß is assumed for the nonlinear resistors. It is shown that optimal ß results in maximum fractional static errors of ±0.08 percent, ±0.32 percent, and ±0.17 percent for the respective types of function, if the simplest circuit configurations are used. These errors are materially reduced in more complicated NLI's."
"A set of equations is developed which predicts the effect of both spatial and temporal variations in power supply voltage and temperature. An example is given of how the equations can be used to determine the resistance ratios and power supply voltages needed to obtain the desired voltage margins for given tolerances on the resistance ratios and transistor current gain. A set of simple equations is also derived from which a zeroth order estimate of circuit performance can be easily obtained. Examples are also given of improvements that can be made in the circuit, but no analysis of the improved circuits is presented,"
"In this paper, an algorithm is presented to find a minimal closed partition of the set of internal states of an incompletely specified flow table. The minimal partition is obtained by solving an integer linear program."
"This article introduces a new technique of making state assignment for sequential machines. The technique is in line with the approach used by Hartmanis [l], Stearns and Hartmanis [3], and Curtis [4]. It parallels the work of Dolotta and McCluskey [7], although it was developed independently. The paper describes a procedure for making assignments based on partition pairs with successive choice of the partition."
"It is proposed that possibly the best criterion for judging the arithmetic unit of any modern high-speed computer is its ability to compute d=(a1b1+ a2b2+ ... +anbn)/ c ``accurately'' in the sense of J. H. Wilkinson. Here d, c, and ai, bi for i = 1, 2, ... , n, are assumed to be single-length numbers. However, the ability to retain each product aibi double-length is desirable for high accuracy. For example, in fixed-point arithmetic d can be computed subject to only one rounding error in computers which possess a double-length accumulator that has the ability to sum the double-length products aibi and to divide the double-length dividend (a1 b1+a2b2+ ... +anbn) by the single-length divisor c, yielding a properly rounded quotient d. (Equally good results can be achieved in floating-point.) Several numerical examples are given which show the remarkable improvement in the accuracy of computed results in machines which pass this test. The need for a long-word-length is stressed, along with the need for both rounded and unrounded fixed-point and floating-point arithmetic."
"A pattern recognition network which computes a weighted sum of nonlinear functions of its inputs is considered. An algorithm for training this multithreshold network is presented. The multithreshold device is used for classifying patterns into more than two categories. Experimental results on the recognition of hand-printed characters are shown. In this case, the nonlinear functions consisted of an orthogonal set of property detectors. The network changed its structure by an evolutionary technique which consisted of periodic replacement of the least useful elements by new ones, randomly chosen."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"A comprehensive listing of the articles and departments included in 1966."
"This index covers all technical items that appeared in this periodical during the year."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"This page or pages intentionally left blank."
"This page or pages intentionally left blank."
"This page or pages intentionally left blank."
"This page or pages intentionally left blank."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"This paper deals with some of the problems encountered in a hybrid simulation of the motion of aerospace vehicles. These problems arise principally from the position of the analog-digital interface and the sampling, which of necessity occurs there, and introduces phase lags that can severely affect the validity of any simulation. The introduction of two redundant integrators can effectively decouple the rotational and translation loops. In this case, the high frequencies of the former can be represented in the continuous analog section, and the low frequencies of the latter can be represented in the discrete digital section. Sampling effects in loops involving digital function generation necessitate 75 to 100 samples per cycle if the damping of the simulated system is to be represented with any degree of faithfulness."
"This paper deals with some of the problems encountered in a hybrid simulation of the motion of aerospace vehicles. These problems arise principally from the position of the analog-digital interface and the sampling, which of necessity occurs there, and introduces phase lags that can severely affect the validity of any simulation. The introduction of two redundant integrators can effectively decouple the rotational and translation loops. In this case, the high frequencies of the former can be represented in the continuous analog section, and the low frequencies of the latter can be represented in the discrete digital section. Sampling effects in loops involving digital function generation necessitate 75 to 100 samples per cycle if the damping of the simulated system is to be represented with any degree of faithfulness."
"This paper presents tables of all-pass rational transfer functions that approximate a time delay τ to within an error ϵ for frequencies ω such that 0≤ωτ≤k. The coefficients are optimized to maximize the bandwidth k, if the order n of the transfer function and the maximum error ϵ are predetermined by the user. Two sets of tables are given, corresponding to two different error criteria: 1) ϵ = max |ϵT|, where ϵT(ω73x003C4;) represents a relative delay time error (100 ϵT is the percent error of the time delay) 2) ϵ = max |ϵø|, where ϵø(ωτ) represents a phase shift error. The tables are presented for discrete ϵ. A proof that the coefficients maximize the bandwidth and a description of the digital computer program used to obtain the tables are also given."
"Methods of operating standard switching circuits in a Pulsed Power Circuit (PPC) mode in order to reduce power consumption and system complexity are discussed. The PPC concept involves gating the power supply ''on'' for short clocked time intervals. An interesting feature of the system is that multiple power clocks allow multiple numbers to be stored in the same circuits simultaneously."
"It is now well understood that the design of the signal distribution systems of high speed digital machines is as important as the design of the circuits themselves. The integrated circuit technology of today is pressing back the frontiers of speed and simultaneously providing more circuitry per unit area. A signal distribution system with suitable electrical characteristics for these high speed circuits and which is physically compatible with the circuit size is sorely needed. A candidate for such an application is the multilayer board. This paper considers the problem of cross coupling from line to line in multilayer when the excitation function is a fast rise time voltage pulse. Curves and equations are given which enable the design of a system with a given system characteristic impedance and a specified cross-coupling ratio. Experimentally obtained wave shapes from single ground plane transmission lines are given, and a practical numerical example is worked."
"The author of the paper, \"On the Realizability of Special Classes of Autonomous Sequential Networks,\" which appeared on pp. 791-797 of the December, 1965, issue of these Transactions, has called to the attention of the Editor corrections on pages 792 (including relation (2), and 796 (including Figure 5)."
"When frequency or phase modulation is applied to digital magnetic recording, both peak shift and amplitude variation occur in the readback signals. These distortions are due specifically to pulse crowding, noise, and variation of separation between read head and recording medium. When such waveform distortions are simulated on the digital computer, the results agree well with those obtained from a time-consuming experimental method, and are more accurate than an approximate analytical solution. Simulation results are also produced in graphical form, and thus provide an additional guide for designing and evaluating the performance of optimal recording systems."
"A sequential machine is defined to be linear if its next-state function and output function are linear transformations from their domains (vector spaces) to their ranges (also vector spaces). It is shown that this definition is equivalent to those given by other authors. Based on this definition, a set of necessary and sufficient conditions for the flow table of a sequential machine to be linear is obtained. Many properties of the flow table of a linear sequential machine are found, and in many cases they form very simple tests for the linearity of a flow table. A general procedure for testing the linearity of a flow table is established. This procedure, including the coding of the states, inputs, and outputs, either ends with a linear realization of the flow table with the minimum possible numbers of state variables, input variables, and output variables, or detects that such a linear realization for the flow table is impossible. The type of sequential machine considered in this paper is deterministic and synchronous, and both Moore model and Mealy model are studied in detail. The linearity of incompletely specified sequential machines is also discussed."
"In this paper we consider minimum feedback loop realizations of synchronous sequential switching circuits. It is shown that any finite state sequential function can be realized as a synchronous sequential circuit with a single feedback loop, or equivalently, as a one-dimensional iterative circuit with one amplifier between stages. Techniques are described which enable us to find such a realization for a given flow table. A simple test procedure is described to determine if a sequential function can be realized as a sequential circuit using its output function as feedback, whether the output is completely or incompletely specified."
"It has been conjectured [1] that the number Rn of threshold functions of n arguments has the limiting form: Limn→∞ log2 Rn/n2 = const. Bounds previously obtained [2], [3] show that such a constant would have to lie between ⅓ and one. In the present note this constant is shown to have a lower bound of ½.1 The result is extended to the number Rnm of threshold functions defined on m minterms of n arguments and suggests the more general form in the limit of large n, m/n. {logm/n Rnm/n} = const. with the same limits for the constant, providing that the minterms are spread out in a certain sense."
"The notion of a threshold function is generalized to a Boolean function of threshold order r. Two characterizations of a Boolean function of threshold order r are presented, which are generalizations of the results of Kaplan and Winder and of Chow, for the case r = 1. Kaplan and Winder's characterization of a threshold function by means of Chebyshev approximation is generalized to a Boolean function of threshold order r. This results in classifying any Boolean function as a threshold function of some order r less than or equal to the number of variables. Chow's theorem on the ``equivalence'' between threshold functions and statistical recognition with independent distributions is generalized to the case of a Boolean function of threshold order r and of statistical recognition with a certain kind of dependence, called dependence of order r."
"Assume that our technology uses \"black boxes\" that may be described by a planar figure. (See Fig. 1.) Each \"box\" has a finite number of inputs ordered in the manner shown in Fig. 1, from top to bottom on the left-hand side of the \"box,\" and one output coming out of the right-hand side of the \"box.\" The output is some function of the input variables. For the purpose of our discussion, the variables may be continuous or discrete or of any nature whatsoever, and each \"box\" may have any number of inputs."
"In this paper a relationship among distinct Pn+1, cycles, distinct stable maximum transient feedback shift registers of order n+1, and stable feedback shift registers of order n will be presented. In the course of the discussion, two algorithms will be introduced. The first will provide a one-to-one mapping between distinct stable feedback shift registers of order n and distinct stable maximum-transient feedback shift registers of order n+1. The second will provide a one-to-one mapping between distinct maximum transient feed-back shift registers of order n+1 and distinct Pn+1, cycles. As a corollary to these relationships, an enumeration of the stable feed-back shift registers is obtained."
"In this paper a relationship among distinct Pn+1 cycles, distinct stable maximum transient feedback shift registers of order n+1, and stable feedback shift registers of order n will be presented. In the course of the discussion, two algorithms will be introduced. The first will provide a one-to-one mapping between distinct stable feedback shift registers of order n and distinct stable maximum-transient feedback shift registers of order n+1. The second will provide a one-to-one mapping between distinct maximum transient feedback shift registers of order n+1 and distinct Pn+1 cycles. As a corollary to these relationships, an enumeration of the stable feedback shift registers is obtained."
"The \"digital analog converter with ac amplification\" (DACAC) described by the author [1] can be used in the design of a wide purpose function generator."
"Adaptive pattern recognizers incorporate approximations to the class probability distributions that improve as a result of cumulative information derived from known inputs. A simple method is outlined in which a stored sample constitutes a set of points in observation-space at each of which the local value of a class's distribution can be estimated cumulatively as known class-members become available. The membership of the sample representing each class is modified to fill gaps and to adjust to the relative spread of the distribution. Only a minimum of computation, mostly simple counting, is required."
"Adaptive pattern recognizers incorporate approximations to the class probability distributions that improve as a result of cumulative information derived from known inputs. A simple method is outlined in which a stored sample constitutes a set of points in observation-space at each of which the local value of a class's distribution can be estimated cumulatively as known class-members become available. The membership of the sample representing each class is modified to fill gaps and to adjust to the relative spread of the distribution. Only a minimum of computation, mostly simple counting, is required."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"A comprehensive listing of the articles and departments included in 1966."
"This index covers all technical items that appeared in this periodical during the year."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"This page or pages intentionally left blank."
"This page or pages intentionally left blank."
"This page or pages intentionally left blank."
"This page or pages intentionally left blank."
"This page or pages intentionally left blank."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"The design and performance characteristics of a 128×64 MOS transistor memory is given. The storage cell used operates with a low standby power, 0.1 mW. The memory operates with a 12-ns access time, 35-ns read cycle time, and a 60-ns write cycle time."
"The design and performance characteristics of a 128X64 MOS transistor memory is given. The storage cell used operates with a low standby power, 0.1 mW. The memory operates with a 12-ns access time, 35-ns read cycle time, and a 60-ns write cycle time."
"A static ferrite storage readout technique is described which utilizes microwave transmission phenomena rather than voltage induction to achieve readout. Reversible, rotational impulse switching is used to effect nondestructive interrogation of a small toroidal core which is coupled to a strip-type ``sense line.'' The core coupled to the stripline causes an electrically controllable discontinuity in the transmission line. The change of stripline transmission characteristics during interrogation, in turn, is dependent upon the remnant state of the core. Detection of a microwave signal transmitted through the stripline yields a bipolar signal which may be used to identify the remnant state of the core. The microwave readout technique which utilizes an XN-band signal permits readout of information in an extremely short duration of time. Experimental results are given to demonstrate readout in as little time as 3 nanoseconds. Utilization of the technique for readout of information from a mass memory configuration is potentially possible."
"A device is proposed for providing an ultra high speed read, but comparatively slow write, memory device. The device has certain similarities to other proposed devices, but the mode of operation and performance is quite new and makes use of effects which are normally avoided or minimized in usual memory devices. The storage element is a thick-film bias magnet with a coercive force smaller than its self-demagnetizing field and is tightly coupled to a second anisotropic thick film which serves as the sensing or reading device. The array conductors are all external to the coupled structure (i.e., no conductors lie between the films) thereby simplifying fabrication. A modified coincident current technique is used to write the information into the bias film. A stored ``1'' is obtained by setting the bias film and hence the read film into a demagnetized state. A read current applied to the word line will cause rotation of the magnetic moments of the read film toward its hard axis, thus inducing a signal in the sense line. A stored ``0'' is obtained by saturating the bias film, which in turn saturates the read film in its hard direction and thus prevents any signal from being induced in the sense line during reading. The modes of operation and design parameters are presented as well as a number of measurements. The results thus far have shown that there are no fundamental barriers to overcome."
"A 4096 word NDRO memory system using the high speed woven wire memory is discussed. The operating principle and the NDRO characteristics of the memory together with stack construction, noise problems, circuitry, and experimental results are explained. The memory weave consists of electroplated magnetic thin-film wires for the digit-sense lines and insulated wires for the word lines, which are mounted on a terminal plate to form a plane. The stack is made up of 32 planes. To minimize noise effects, the word lines are diode-transformer matrix driven and the two-memory-cell per bit method is used in the digit-sense lines. The memory capacity is 4096 words × 10 bits. Cycle times of 400 ns for read and 600 ns for write, respectively, were achieved with high operating stability."
"An economic comparison has been made between fully integrated scratch-pad memories and thin magnetic-film scratch-pad memories on the basis of assumed component costs. On this basis, magnetic film memories are more expensive than fully integrated memories for very small memories, as expected. In terms of the assumptions made, the economic crossover as a function of memory size between the two memory types lies between 500 and 10 000 bits of storage. Two sample thin-film scratch-pad memory designs are given which have comparatively simple electronic circuitry using integrated circuit power supplies. This electronic circuitry also is amenable to integrated or hybrid circuit implementation."
"This paper describes a thin-film Rod memory that is used as the main store in the NCR Rod Memory Computer. The production procedure for the Rod storage element and the fabrication and assembly of the memory stack is outlined. The mode of operation of the memory is discussed. Line characteristics, design criteria, as well as a description of word, sense, digit and timing circuits are also presented."
"A dynamic analysis has been made of the behavior of sense signals in large-scale magnetic thin film memories. The timed effects of attenuation, distortion, cross coupling and interconnection are superimposed on the transmitted waveforms. The computed signals can be used as a design guide to determine the length of sense lines, the number of intersecting word lines, the sense amplifier requirements, etc. The key limiting factors are the resistance of lines and the capacitance at the line intersections. Design criteria are discussed."
"A ferrite core memory system organization is discussed which offers a significant improvement in performance as well as a lower cost potential in larger memory sizes. Significant differences relative to other memory organizations are presented. The diode decoded drive system is discussed in some detail, presenting a frequency domain approach to memory system resonances. A particular system is described and the directions for future system development are presented."
"The characteristics of ferrite memory cores are discussed and it is shown how these characteristics relate to the performance of memories with different organizations. First to be discussed are the different memory organizations (3D, 2½D, and 2D) in which ferrite cores are used. The sense-digit plane configurations for typical systems are discussed and illustrated. Also discussed and illustrated are the primary and secondary response characteristics and it is shown how these characteristics affect the sense output voltage. Test procedures for determining these characteristics, without the necessity for building a complete memory plane, are given. The general considerations are discussed for selecting a core for an application using these test results; this is illustrated with a tabulation of results derived from the testing of a series of 30-mil memory cores. The paper concludes with a brief discussion of core stress sensitivity and temperature characteristics."
"This report describes a read-only digital computer memory which utilizes a loom to ``braid'' information into a wire harness. The memory is called a braid memory and is a variation on the type of transformer memory first described by T. L. Dimond. Such memories are useful when permanence of information is desirable. Braids for the memory described in this report were made at the rate of 213 bits/hour including connections. The use of a loom makes braid manufacture both a fast and an economical process. A number of trade-offs between speed, capacity, and component count exist; hence, braid memories with many different characteristics can be made. The memory described in this report has a capacity of 16 384 words of 16 bits each."
"This review of content-addressable memory and associative computer systems represents an attempt to consolidate and report nontechnically the direction in which numerous independent research programs have progressed during the last ten years. The paper reflects the views of a myriad of researchers on subjects of organization (configuration concepts), hardware elements, logical operations, speed, cost, size, software implications, applications, advantages and disadvantages. In a report of this type it is important to quote directly and indirectly from the researchers themselves, so that the trends or directions of their concepts may converge into meaningful information. Acknowledgement is made to those quoted (see bibliography references) since they represent the meat of this survey. The bibliography, although voluminous, is not necessarily complete. A number of reference sources may have been overlooked inadvertently. It is hoped, however, that the information and the bibliography will serve as a base for those entering into research connected with this rapidly developing concept."
"Due to the rapidly growing technological ability to batch fabricate a large number of components on one substrate, it is economical and reliable to implement an associative memory by cellular arrays. Such an associative memory is presented in this paper. The proposed memory is word-organized, and its basic building blocks are cutpoint cells with various indices. All the bit-memories, word-sequential-control networks, word-match tag-networks, and bit-output networks have identical structures, and the proposed memory system is especially compatible with the manufacture of integrated circuit. The memory can perform the comparison, tag, writing and nondestructive reading processes in the parallel-by-bit form, as well as Lewin's sorting scheme for ordered retrieval. The dematching process is completely automatic. The memory sequential-control ontrol system does not use any ladder structure which is commonly employed in previous associative memory systems; hence the operation speed is largely increased. The stage delays for various operations are given, and may be employed to estimate the speed of the associative memory."
"This paper describes a word-organized concept for retrieving information by means of word association which can be queried in, at most, one ``access'' time. An example of a 1000-word content-addressed memory (CAM) organization is given. It is shown that for a relatively simple logic organization worst-case word association times of 10 μs-and even faster-are possible. The memory organization for simple equality, pseudo-parallel equality, and between-limits searches is illustrated and discussed. These memory systems require the use of wide-band ultrasonic delay lines (using the most recent advances in ultrasonics, and not commercially available) and high speed (100-200 Mc/s) digital logic. The design, fabrication, and application of the parameters of these delay lines are discussed, based on experimental results achieved at Lockheed Electronics. The delay-line memory system can be both location-and-content-addressable, and has several advantages over the more common content-addressed (i. e., magnetic and cryogenic) memory systems. The systems described require little power and are physically small and lightweight."
"This paper presents a survey of the present state-of-the-art and anticipated future developments in read/write internal memories and on-line auxiliary memories. Functional uses of storage are discussed and advanced memory technologies are categorized by their applicability to each functional level in the storage hierarchy. Eight types of advanced solid-state memories are discussed briefly. Characteristics anticipated for these memories by 1970 in high speed control and scratch-pad memory, main internal memory, and solid-state on-line auxiliary storage applications are compared. Characteristics anticipated by 1970 for seven types of electromechanical auxiliary storage are also compared. The system implications of advanced memory technologies are considered from the standpoints of machine organization, programming, system organization, and computer users. Problems in the selection, utilization, and application of advanced memory capabilities are identified. The major contenders in each functional category for future memory systems are listed."
"The paper presents three procedures for coding the internal states of asynchronous sequential switching circuits. Resulting codes insure that the circuit will function according to flow table specifications independent of variations in transmission delays within the circuit. The assignment methods produce codes that allow one to maximize the operating speed of the circuit and are applicable to completely or incompletely specified sequential machines."
"In this paper we study some relations between the continuity of sequence transformations and their realizability by logic nets. The main results discussed include: the Curtis-Hedlund-Lyndon theorem which states that, if a sequence transformation is continuous and unitary (commutative with the shift transformation), then it can be realized by a net without feedback, and, the extension of this theorem to the finitary case. We find that unitary transformations are realized by definite automata, and finitary transformations are realized by indefinite automata. The term ``automata'' is used here in a modification of its usual sense, and we explore the relation between the conventional and modified notions. Many of the concepts and more significant mathematical results in this report can be found in another context in works by Hedlund and others. What may be new and of interest to computer scientists, we believe, is their application to the theory of sequential circuits."
"The autonomous behavior of an array of identical elements is investigated and found to be related closely to the structure of the array. Each element consists of a symmetric Boolean function of the inputs and one unit of delay. The interconnection of the elements is described by a matrix. A function in the element is universal and minimal if there exists an n×n interconnection matrix that will generate each of the autonomous state diagrams of 2n states. It is shown that no such function can exist. Assuming the NOR function in the element, theorems are presented that test the interconnection matrix in order to determine the autonomous behavior, i. e., state diagram, of the array. In particular, necessary and sufficient conditions for an array to generate a state diagram consisting entirely of cycles or rooted trees are described. If the array generates a cyclic state diagram, the cycle set can be determined from theorems derived in the paper. If the behavior is a rooted tree, theorems are presented that determine the state vector of the root, the maximum path length through the tree, and the number of states at a given distance from the root of the tree."
"A tabular minimization procedure for ternary switching functions is developed. The theory is analogous to that used in the McCluskey simplification method for Boolean functions. Using the ternary function truth table, the procedure provides a systematic method of applying a limited set of reduction rules in a converging process for obtaining a minimal irredundant form of the function. It is shown how the procedure can be used to derive simplified expressions for arbitrary ternary functions in terms of a particularly attractive system of threshold gating functions. The procedure has more general applications in providing a simple method of finding, for any given function, all binary variables of the function and all variables of which the function is independent."
"This paper discusses single-input, single-output binary sequential circuits composed of adders, multipliers and delay units. The principal results are: 1) Finite feedforward circuits are characterized by a response function (rf) which permits the determination of the output for an arbitrary input. 2) Corresponding to every rf is a transfer function (tf) which is obtained by a multidimensional Z-transform of the rf. This tf permits the determination of the response of a feedforward circuit by transform domain techniques. 3) Every tf may be synthesized as a physical circuit. 4) A canonic form is defined for every tf. With this canonic form is identified an implementation which contains a minimum number of delay units and adders. 5) Nonfeedforward circuits are called well defined if they meet certain physically meaningful restrictions. 6) Well-defined circuits may be classified as those which have inverses (class I) and those which do not. Membership in class I is shown to be a property of circuits which established one-one maps of inputs onto outputs. Circuits which do not belong to class I have neither left nor right inverses. 7) An intimate connection between inverses and feedback circuits is established. It is shown that any well-defined feedback circuit and a related circuit in I are mutually inverse. 8) It is shown that the necessary and sufficient condition for a feedback circuit to be well defined is that the circuit in the feedback loop contains delay."
"A snake-in-the-box (SIB) code of order k is defined to be an ordered sequence of binary code words in which adjacent words differ in only one bit, and pairs of code words that are k or more apart in the ordered sequence differ in at least k bit positions. In this paper, constructions for SIB codes of arbitrary order are given, as well as upper bounds on the maximum code sequence length for given order and word size. These codes are potentially useful for binary encoding of analog data. Gray codes are SIB codes of order one, and Kautz has investigated SIB codes of order two. The SIB codes of a given order contain as a subset all SIB codes of higher order."
"The class of semi-systematic weight codes is presented. To this class belong 2's complement and minus two code. Properties of semi-systematic codes are considered. Some of these properties are shown on the representation diagram, and the semi-systematic codes used in the real computers are listed. One of the semi-systematic codes called 2's complement (neg. 2's complement) is described in detail. This code has the same useful properties as conventional 2's complement code and, in addition, multiplication in the 2's complement code is closed. The algorithms for arithmetical operations in 2's complement are shown and proved. It follows that the arithmetic unit in 2's complement does not require any additional equipment compared with a conventional 2's complement arithmetic unit."
"Some new procedures for synthetizing three-input majority gate networks have been described. Both a geometrical approach on the map of the assigned function and an algebraic procedure have been discussed. The geometrical methods give a number of different solutions and may lead to the simplest networks, but their use requires ingenuity. Therefore, some of the solutions suggested by the analysis of the maps have been translated into algebraic expressions, which may be easily used for automatic computation. The techniques described are applicable to any and all Boolean functions and lead to simple solutions. In fact, every function of n variables can be implemented by a network having (n-1) levels of gates, if n is odd, or n levels, if n is even, at the most. All the procedures are relatively simple and can be extended to the synthesis of networks of any type (m, t)."
"In this paper, two general methods of determining a separating surface f(x)= Σn-1i=0 αiøi(x) = 0 will be developed for any switching problem in terms of threshold elements øi(x). First, a polynomial decision function f(x) is synthesized so that it has no more than N terms in it where N is the total number of pattern vectors of the switching problem. This decision function is easily amenable for mechanization since it needs the solution of a triangular system of N equations in N unknowns. In addition, a method of deriving aminimal polynomial solution f(x) will also be given. Second, a decision function f(x) involving general threshold elements øi(x) is derived from the polynomial solution so that it has fewer terms than the polynomial solution. Examples will be given to illustrate the methods and compare these results with those obtained by the traditional method of prime implicants."
"This paper concerns the application of a result of Arden and Arthurs to a particular finite-state machine, the accumulator. Arden and Arthurs have shown that given a complete set of devices for some fixed sequence rate, any finite-state machine may be constructed from these devices to operate at this maximum rate. In this paper we consider the construction of a good representation (in terms of overall delay) of the m-bit accumulator, operating at the maximum rate. Examples are presented using state-of-the-art devices which illustrate the construction and give measures of usefulness and cost Of this accumulator."
"Two major areas of technological advance in digital integrated circuits are: 1) increasing speed for a given power dissipation, and 2) decreasing area per gate function leading to the development of more complex single-chip units. The DTL circuits and subsystems described develop these trends to faster and more complex DTL single-chip logic functions. The application of the monolithic thin-film compatible technology with p-n junction isolation enables propagation delay times of 4.5 ns at 11.7 mW to be achieved in the basic DTL gates. The basic die topology described is well suited to the formation of monolithic single-chip DTL binary elements, full adders, multibit counters, and shift registers."
"An analysis of the dynamic behavior of a thin-film parametron is derived from the Landau-Lifshitz and the circuit nodal equations. The effect of stresses on the thin film is included in the mathematical model and the resultant equations are solved numerically by the Runge-Kutta method, without making any assumption about the nature of the solution. The initial conditions used to start the computation are also obtained numerically, solving the same equation for the particular case of zero pump field. Solutions for various values of stress are given, electrical and magnetic parameters are plotted, and the effect of stresses on the waveforms are discussed. A detailed analysis of the energy transfer in the unstressed case is presented. Experimental waveforms from a cylindrical thin-film parametron which was tested under conditions similar to those used in the computation are presented. Computed and experimental waveforms show excellent quantitative and qualitative agreement."
"One of the design problems of digital computers is in code conversion from analog form to its equivalent digital form, and vice versa. In data logging, reduction, and process control applications of digital computers, input data are frequently in analog or shaft position form. Conventionally weighted binary numbers are not used directly for analog readings because at certain positions these may be ambiguously expressed. Gray suggested a code in this application which eliminates the ambiguity of natural binary numbers. The basic rule in Gray code generation is to allow only one bit change between adjacent numbers.1 The Gray code, unfortunately, is difficult to use in computation. Hence, it is customary to perform code conversion before attempting computer arithmetic operations."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"A comprehensive listing of the articles and departments included in 1966."
"This index covers all technical items that appeared in this periodical during the year."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"This page or pages intentionally left blank."
"This page or pages intentionally left blank."
"This page or pages intentionally left blank."
"This page or pages intentionally left blank."
"This page or pages intentionally left blank."
"This page or pages intentionally left blank."
"This page or pages intentionally left blank."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Since only fifteen individuals said that they made any use of the information retrieval cards and since four individuals took the trouble to write that the cards were of no value, the Computer Group has decided to discontinue the cards. There were thirty individuals in favor of continuing the Abstracts. The Administrative Committee, therefore, decided to continue the Abstracts. In order to give broader coverage in the field we have asked Cambridge Communications Corporation not to abstract articles appearing in our own TRANSACTIONS. Any other suggestions relative to these services will be most welcome."
"The analog computer solution of linear time invariant differential equations of the type pny + an-1pn-1y +...+ a0y = bmpmu + bm-1pm-1u... + b0u; (p=d/dt) is treated for the case in which the polynomials Sn + an-1Sn-1 +...+ a0 and bmSm + bm-1Sm-1 + ... + b0 have common roots. It is shown that the ``dummy variable'' [2] method of analog solution is not suitable if we want not only the ``forced'' solution, but also the ``free'' or ``homogeneous'' solution (corresponding to arbitrary initial conditions y(0), py(0) ... pn-1y(0)). It is in fact impossible to find the initial conditions x1(0) ... xn(0) at the output of the integrators in the analog scheme, corresponding to the ``dummy variable'' method. The reason is found in the framework of linear system theory, which shows that this scheme represents a non observable system. An intuitive explanation of this fact is shown at the end of the paper. Other analog computer schemes are shown which do not present this difficulty, and which give the ``free'' as well as the ``forced'' solution of our equation."
"An automatic analog device for plotting sound ray trajectories in the ocean, and determining time of travel, is described, The basis of the machine is a small general purpose analog computer with only 17 operational amplifiers. It is capable of plotting long rays, and rays with surface reflections and bottom reflections. Vertical velocity gradients are accommodated, horizontal velocity gradients less conveniently. The machine has been tested and used and is completely successful, being reasonably simple to operate, as accurate as the approximations of the input data allow, and requiring only 10 to 15 minutes to produce a ray diagram from the appropriate oceanographic data. The computation involves the solution of a nonlinear second-order differential equation. The nonlinear oceanographic data are approximated by a series of straight line segments. Each segment is applied to the machine as a potentiometer setting, with automatic switching between the potentiometers. The velocity profile is represented by up to 25 layers of adjustable depth; this number could be increased with little effort. The surface and bottom reflections are automatic."
"Two identical low-pass electrical filters, having any realizable low-pass frequency-response characteristic and synthesized from linear analog computer components by any convenient method, may be interconnected in a simple manner to form a band-pass filter whose frequency-response characteristic represents a translation along the frequency axis of the frequency response characteristic of the original low-pass filters. The resulting filter circuit has two inputs and two outputs. When either input is driven by an electrical signal representing a real function of time, the resulting filtered signals at the two outputs are in phase quadrature with respect to each other. When the two inputs are driven simultaneously by the real and imaginary parts of a complex signal, the two outputs represent the real and imaginary components of the filtered complex signal. The filter, when used in this manner, is able to differentiate between positive and negative frequencies so that its pass band exists for positive but not for negative frequencies, or vice versa."
"This paper develops a theory of symmetric ternary switching functions and presents systematic methods for their detection, identification and synthesis. Shannon's theory of binary symmetric functions is extended to ternary functions by defining a set of five ``priming'' operations which, together with the ``permutation'' operations, form a group. Algebraic characterizations of totally and partially symmetric ternary functions are discussed. The method of detection and identification is based on a set of simple rules derived in terms of equalities of the residual functions of the given function with respect to pairs of variables of symmetry in a cyclic order. The notions of fundamental and simple symmetric ternary functions have been introduced and their algebraic properties have been studied. These concepts are then applied to develop a synthesis procedure which uses two basic 3-valued electronic gates recognizing the ``maximum'' or the ``minimum'' of the inputs. Possible generalizations of the results derived in this paper to arbitrarily many-valued functions are indicated."
"In this paper we attempt to realize any flow table of a desired sequential circuit so as to minimize the feedback index (number of feedback loops) of the resulting asynchronous sequential switching circuit. It is shown that any flow table M, which describes the circuit action of a normal fundamental mode asynchronous sequential circuit, can be realized as a fundamental mode circuit with feedback index [log2S], where S is the maximum number of stable states in any input column of M. The realization requires no inverters (assuming double rail inputs) and thus can be shown to be a minimum transistor, as well as a minimal feedback index, realization for any transistor-diode circuit realization of M. Nonfundamental mode realizations of normal mode flow tables are also considered, and it is shown that such a realization can be found with only one feedback loop, assuming ideal inertial delays, for any given flow table. However, no ideal inertial delay realization has been discovered which does not contain internal feedback. Finally, minimum feedback realizations of non-normal and nonfundamental mode flow tables are briefly considered."
"The authors of the paper, \"Linearity of Sequential Machines,\" which appeared on pages 337-354 of the June, 1966, issue of these Transactions, have called the following to the attention of the Editor errors on pages 338, 339, 342, 343, 347, and 351."
"The display system discussed in this paper was implemented to provide a flexible test bed for man-machine interaction. The discussion includes both hardware and software design concepts, and concludes with an evaluation of the system based on operating experience. The two significant organizational features of the hardware are 1) the sharing of memory between a normal computer and a special picture computer (display device), together with 2) the capability of the latter to execute subroutines. The philosophy of design was that hardware should not limit the programmer's flexibility. This idea has been extended to utility software."
"A set of conditions are described which determine whether or not two successive portions of a given program can be performed in parallel and still produce the same results. The conditions are general and can be applied to sections of the program of arbitrary size. The conditions are interesting because of the light they shed on the structure of programs amenable to parallel processing and the memory organization of a multi-computer system."
"This paper classifies error correcting codes for arithmetic and provides the necessary and sufficient conditions for the various code classes. Particular attention is given to the arithmetic properties of the codes. It is shown that the Brown codes and the Henderson codes are examples of a general class of nonseparate, nonsystematic codes. Henderson's systematic code is shown to be the only systematic, nonseparate code. Finally, conditions are given for the existence of code classes for both radix complement and diminished radix complement coded arithmetic systems."
"A number of additional constraints are added to the usual problem of forming a pattern recognition scheme using adaptive techniques. These require that the system formed be 1) capable of adding a new class without requiring excessive change of the original structure, 2) able to handle sequential patterns as generated by events which occur over a period of time, and 3) able to predict parts of the sequential pattern. A particular scheme is simulated on a large digital computer and tested on problems in speaker identification, speech recognition, and electroencephalogram recognition."
"In this study we investigated the recording performance of a surface composed of Co-substituted γ-Fe2O3 particles. These particles were cubic in shape with edge length of 500 to 1000 Å, and coercivity of 500 to 600 Oe. This high coercivity is due primarily to the large magnetocrystalline anisotropy of the cobalt cation in the spinel lattice. The recording surface exhibited higher output, better dynamic range, and considerably smaller half-pulse width than typical acicular γ-Fe2O3 surfaces. Coercivity and squareness were found to decrease dramatically with increasing temperature, and with adverse consequences affecting recording performance. Heating a prerecorded tape to 150°C results in a 50 percent loss of signal; the conventional γ-Fe2O3 tapes experience no loss."
"The behavior of nonlinear viscoelastic materials to low velocity impacts is described in terms of simple mathematical models which take into account the effects of nonlinear damping and deflection characteristics. An approximate analytical solution is given for the particular case of an impact printer (a typical piece of computer peripheral equipment). An expression for the impact ``contact time'' is derived; the contact time is shown to be inversely proportional to the square root of the initial hammer velocity. Conclusions, based on the approximate nonlinear analysis, are compared with published IBM experimental data. Results of this investigation serve as the basis for continuing studies of impact printing and impression controls."
"Maximum capability for self-diagnosis with minimum additional hardware is the goal of every designer of a general purpose computer today. A yardstick with which the self-diagnosability of a system can be measured is proposed."
"A study of the output of a heuristic computer program reveals two four-state binary Turing machines which yield the highest known score for four states in Rado's co-called \"Busy Beaver\" logical game. There is evidence which supports the conjecture that this score of 13 is the particular value of Σ(4), where Σis a noncomputable integer function associated with this game. It is also conjectured that S(4) = 106, where S is another noncomputable function, the maximum shift number, of interest in Rado's study. Complete solution of the problem for four states has been reduced to a relatively small set of machines."
"A study of the output of a heuristic computer program reveals two four-state binary Turing machines which yield the highest known score for four states in Rado's co-called \"Busy Beaver\" logical game. There is evidence which supports the conjecture that this score of 13 is the particular value of Σ(4), where Σ is a noncomputable integer function associated with this game. It is also conjectured that S(4) = 106, where S is another noncomputable function, the maximum shift number, of interest in Rado's study. Complete solution of the problem for four states has been reduced to a relatively small set of machines."
"It is shown that, in minimizing an Incompletely specified flow table, nontrivial column reductions may be considered to obtain a low-cost sequential network. Compatibility classes of columns of a flow table are defined, and other basic concepts for a general approach to the problem are illustrated."
"For reduced finite Moore automata corresponding to regular expressions which are finite sums of expressions of the form E+HΣ*G (E,H,G are finite events and Σis the set of inputs) it is shown that an arbitrary change of the initial state or of the set of final states results in an automaton belonging to the same class. The transition graphs corresponding to the single inputs in definite and reverse-definite automata are investigated."
"For reduced finite Moore automata corresponding to regular expressions which are finite sums of expressions of the form E+HΣ*G (E, H, G are finite events and Σ is the set of inputs) it is shown that an arbitrary change of the initial state or of the set of final states results in an automaton belonging to the same class. The transition graphs corresponding to the single inputs in definite and reverse-definite automata are investigated."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"A comprehensive listing of the articles and departments included in 1966."
"This index covers all technical items that appeared in this periodical during the year."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Donald M.Y. Chang has pointed out an error in his recent review (ibid., vol, EC-14, pp. 535-541, August 1965). The last sentence of the review should have read, \" ... the method does show promise ... \" rather than, \"the method does not show promise.... \" This misprint completely changed the sense of the conclusion of the review, for which apologies are due Gimpel and Chang."
"This page or pages intentionally left blank."
"This page or pages intentionally left blank."
"This page or pages intentionally left blank."
"This page or pages intentionally left blank."
"This page or pages intentionally left blank."
"This page or pages intentionally left blank."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"This paper outlines a simple technique for determining stability criteria for numerical integration procedures. Use is made of the Z-transform and the method is presented in engineering terms."
"This paper outlines a simple technique for determining stability criteria for numerical integration procedures. Use is made of the Z-transform and the method is presented in engineering terms."
"This paper discusses some optimum design problems which arise when paging and segmentation are used in a multiprogrammed computer system, and suggests approaches to their solution. It is argued that design optimization depends fundamentally on the statistics of the typical software load presented to the computer system, and also that the investigation requires the aid of a total system model. Statistical techniques for defining software characteristics in such a model are presented. It is shown how these tools can be employed to simulate the changing contents of main memory; and as a further illustration, the simulation of an auxiliary memory is demonstrated. Graphs are given which show the variation of auxiliary memory performance with the number of associative cells available."
"A modular computer may be informally defined to be a device consisting of a large (or infinite) number of identical circuit modules connected together in some uniform manner. This paper is concerned with making the concept of ``connected together in a uniform manner'' mathematically precise. Uniformity of connection in a modular device is first defined in terms of the linear graph whose vertices correspond to the modules and whose edges correspond to the cables connecting them. It is shown that the class of graphs satisfying the definition is precisely the class of group-graphs; that is, the vertices correspond to the elements of a group G, and there is a finite subset G0 of G' (1 ∉ G0) such that {g, g'} is an edge of the graph if, and only if, there exists g0 in G0 such that g'. = gg0. It is then shown that restricting the group G to be Abelian restricts the patterns of simultaneous activity which may occur within the computer."
"The problem considered is the derivation of self-diagnosis procedures for digital computers. A self-diagnosis procedure is defined as an experiment of two outcomes: 1) all transistor-diode logic is failure-free; or 2) card or module X has a fault of type Y. Also, the procedure must be sufficiently fast to permit execution every few hours by nontechnical personnel. A method for the production of self-diagnosis procedures is given. The method was experimentally applied to the problem of self-diagnosis of the central processor of an existing computer. Work was carried far enough to verify validity, and to obtain estimates of certain parameters. These were used in turn to develop an estimate of total length for the complete procedure, which indicated that execution time would be acceptably short. The experimental results will also be used in a companion paper to develop more extensive estimates."
"A general method for the production of self-diagnosis procedures for digital computers is given. A number of principles which facilitate the design of diagnosable machines are proposed. The most general recommendations are that the machine be asynchronous, free of redundant components, and that production of the diagnosis procedure be undertaken concurrently with design of the system. On the level of circuit design, it is recommended that sequential circuits be strongly connected, totally sequential, and of short transient length. System design principles given include the following recommendations. The design should be functionally well-modularized and free of pulse-mode circuitry. Each module of the design should cause a hangup whenever it receives an illegal control sequence from any other module. The design should be minimal in global (intermodular) feedback lines, and the global lines should not undergo transitions until all local (intramodular) lines have settled. All of the above material was motivated by the results of an experimental study reported in a previous paper. A somewhat new type of machine organization suited to the given production method and design principles is proposed (cascade organization). A feasibility study of self-diagnosis of a cascade-organized processor of moderate size is described. The results indicate that self-diagnosis of such a system is feasible although treatment of medium-and large-sized machines will require improved simulation procedures. Finally, several suggestions for further work are made."
"This paper is concerned with the problem of determining diode optimal representations for two levels of logic with multiple inputs and multiple outputs. Previous papers by the authors and others have formulated algorithms for obtaining optimal representations. However, the linear integer programming problem obtained is often prohibitively large. In the present paper, methods for reducing the size of the problem before and after expanding into the linear integer format are presented. These methods insure that at least one optimal representation for the system is retained after each reduction. Examples are given."
"Nonfeedback shift registers (finite-memory encoders) can be profitably adopted to perform transformations of binary sequences. The output sequence is convolutionally obtained by ``sliding'' the encoding device along the input sequence and producing a symbol at each shift. Invertible transformations are characterized and decoding schemes are analyzed. The crucial point in the decoding problem is that the simple finite-memory feedback decoder presents the undesirable well-known error propagation effect, while the nonfeedback decoder contains, in general, an indefinite number of stages. Finite-memory nonfeedback decoding is feasible, however, if some constraint is imposed on the input sequences, or, equivalently, if some decoding error is tolerated. The analysis is conducted through the concepts of resynchronizing states of Boolean functions. The algebraic properties of resynchronizing states are carefully analyzed; it is shown that they can be assigned only in special sets, termed clusters, which form a lattice. Moreover, each cluster of resynchronizing states is possessed by a set of Boolean functions, which form a subspace of the vector space of all Boolean functions. The presented analysis provides a formal tool to relate finite-memory nonfeedback decoding to the constraint imposed on the input generating source."
"The probability densities of each of K classes must be known for a statistically optimum classification of an input into one of K categories. This article describes an economical technique for the approximation of probability densities as generalized N-dimensional histograms constructed from a limited number of samples of each class. The histogram cell locations, shapes, and sizes are determined adaptively from sequentially introduced samples of known classification. A method of storing and evaluating densities at an arbitrary point in N-space is described. A computer flow chart is given, and the method is illustrated with an example. Some computational techniques facilitating the rapid evaluation of N-dimensional histograms are discussed."
"This paper discusses an experimental study of a mixed-font print recognition system. With a program-controlled CRT scanner input, using 96 N-tuple recognition measurements with ternary minimum distance decision, the system reported is capable of reading a variety of type styles at a performance level which is quite acceptable for fair to good quality print. Performance is marginal for poor quality print."
"Because of the inadvertent omission of Fig. 6 in the October, 1966 issue, this correction is reprinted completely herewith. S.S. Yau and K.C. Wang, authors of the paper, \"Linearity of Sequential Machines,\" which appeared on pages 337-354 of the June, 1966, issue of these Transactions, have called the to the attention of the Editor errors that appeared on pages 337, 338, 339, 342, 343, 344, 346, 347, 350, 351, and 352."
"The well-known cyclic error-correcting codes are used so far only for serial systems; that is, systems having a single channel with information transmitted one bit at a time. In data-processing equipments and communication systems, information is often transmitted serially by characters and parallel by bits within a character. That is, there are several channels in parallel. Error correction in the existing multiple channel systems has been restricted to the use of block codes with the block length equal to the number of channels. The use of cyclic codes will allow the length of a code word many times greater than the number of parallel channels. This offers simple mechanization and, at the same time, reduces the redundancy of the system."
"A catalog of all nonredundant complete sets of functions of two and three binary variables is presented in the form of a table."
"A catalog of all nonredundant complete sets of functions of two and three binary variables is presented in the form of a table."
"In this note we define the amount of feedback in a realization of a sequential machine M, give a simple algorithm to compute the minimal amount of feedback which has to be present in any realization of M, and give a canonical realization of M which uses the minimal amount of feedback."
"The adaptive single threshold gate realization procedure, originally proposed by Rosenblatt, has been rather extensively studied, and several upper bounds on the number of corrections required for its convergence have been derived. In this note a lower bound on the number of required corrections is determnined, and shown to differ from the upper bound by a factor of about n2 where n is the number of binary variables. This new bound then implies the existence of classes of linearly separable functions for which the number of required corrections increases exponentially with n."
"A Boolean function of n variables f(x1, x2, . . . , xn) is a k-thresh-old F/T/ . . . function1 if there exist a set of real numbers {w1, w2, . . . , wn}, called the weights, and a sequence of monotonically increasing real numbers {t1, t2, . . . , tk}, called the thresholds, which are such that"
"A process is described for continuing adaptation, after hyperplanes that separate pattern classes in pattern space have been found, in order to increase the distance between sample patterns and hyperplanes."
"A process is described for continuing adaptation, after hyperplanes that separate pattern classes in pattern space have been found, in order to increase the distance between sample patterns and hyperplanes. It is then shown that the original adaptive process is a special case of a more general adaptive process in which the distance of a mis-assigned training pattern from the border of its proper category region is regarded as negative. This device permits the concept of nearly linearly separable classes."
"The purpose of this paper is to present a simple template-matching pattern recognition technique by using any general-purpose associative memory. The input patterns for recognition may have wide variations, provided that the distinct features of individual pattern classes can be extracted. Each pattern class is allowed to have deviations in size, style, orientation, etc. within certain limits. This pattern recognition technique is extremely efficient in handwritten character recognition, which is used for illustration in this paper. Because each input pattern is processed with all the pattern classes simultaneously, the speed of this pattern recognition technique is very high. It is found that most input patterns are recognized within first comparison process and no input patterns require more than two comparison processes for their recognition."
"Supplementing earlier papers, this note treats two topics: nonsupervised adaptation to the optimum hypersphere for normal distributions, and supervised estimation of the shape parameter m for Pearson probability distributions."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"A comprehensive listing of the articles and departments included in 1966."
"This index covers all technical items that appeared in this periodical during the year."
"This index covers all technical items that appeared in this periodical during the year."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"This page or pages intentionally left blank."
"This index covers all technical items that appeared in this periodical during the year."
"This page or pages intentionally left blank."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"By use of glass fibers as dielectric waveguides, interferometric measurements of light along the propagation path can be used as a new type of strain gauge. Two novel strain interferometers are proposed: one which uses the phenomenon of crosstalk between adjacent light pipes, and another which is a waveguide version of the Michelson interferometer. Both designs are distinguished by the possibility of digital readout and a basic simplicity. The theory of the instruments is described, and explicit estimates for the strain sensitivity are calculated. The numerical data show that, with digital readout, strains of the order of 10-8 can be resolved with a basic instrument ten meters long, and strains of the order of 10-9 can be resolved by a hundred-meter device. With the aid of various refinements, the sensitivity can be enhanced by at least another order of magnitude."
"The practical problem of choosing the parameters of the seismometer transducer in order to optimize the ratio of signal-to-instrument noise when working into a given amplifier is analyzed. The manner in which the signal-to-noise ratio varies with transducer coil resistance for constant seismometer damping factor is presented. It is shown that, for amplifiers in which the effective input noise over the desired pass band is smaller than the thermal noise of the amplifier input impedance, it is possible to use transducers spanning a wide range of impedance levels without sacrifice of signal-to-noise ratio. For systems in which amplifier noise predominates, however, the optimum signal-to-noise ratio can be achieved only for a specific choice of transducer parameters. Plots of signal-to-noise ratio are presented for several pairings of seismometers and amplifiers, illustrating the two conditions."
"An underwater acoustic telemetry system was developed to provide a two-way communications link between an ocean-bottom seismograph and a ship overhead. Four data channels are transmitted from the instrument on IRIG Channel 12 (10.5 kc/s). Commands to the instrument are transmitted in the form of a simple pulse position code using a 14 kc/s carrier, and provide for such functions as gain change, calibration, instrument leveling, and uncaging. A mercury battery pack provides sufficient power for 15 days of continuous operation. Acoustic power output is approximately 2.5 watts at an overall efficiency of 20 percent. Instrumentation and batteries are housed in two spherical pressure vessels designed to withstand depths in excess of 2500 fathoms. The system was successfully operated in May, 1964, off Bermuda."
"Seismic recordings made with standard filters often afford insufficient resolution for overlapping reflected events. In this treatment we apply least squares Wiener theory to the design of high-resolution digital time-domain filters. Under the assumption that estimates of the seismic pulse shape are available, we present techniques that allow one to calculate digital filters which transform this pulse into one which is sufficiently sharp so that it can be distinguished against a background of noise. The two design criteria governing filter performance are filter lag and filter memory function duration. The performance of a Wiener filter is numerically measurable by a quantity which we call the filter performance parameter P, where 0 P 1. The quality of the filter output improves as P approaches unity. We thus seek that combination of lag and memory function duration that maximizes P. This goal can be accomplished by the study of a two-dimensional display of P vs. lag and memory function duration. The proposed design techniques are illustrated by means of numerical examples."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"Frequency assignments to particular broadcasting stations within the range 150-1500 kHz are now made on the basis of empirically derived sky wave propagation curves that are used to determine the service and interference field strengths of these stations. Using the concept of propagation loss, a detailed comparison is presented between two series of propagation curves used for this purpose in the United States and in Europe. Serious differences are shown to exist even though both series are based on extensive measurements taken in similar middle latitude areas. Using all the available data and guided by the theory of medium-frequency ionospheric propagation, a new series of sky wave propagation curves is derived which shows a different frequency dependence factor; these new curves are believed to be more applicable in middle latitude areas than either of the present series."
"In April, 1964, the Federal Communications Commission adopted new rules regarding visual to aural power ratios whereby a ratio as high as 10 to 1 was authorized. This offered some interesting possibilities for minor cost reduction in conventional transmitter manufacture, such as use of a high-power klystron in the visual stage and a low-power tetrode in the aural stage. On the other hand, the possibility of multiplexing both visual and aural signals through one klystron as a means of cost reduction appeared much more attractive in that a complete aural amplifier of any type could be eliminated."
"The requirements for the construction of two different types of antenna test sites are presented and discussed. The methods used currently for measuring the radiation patterns of antennas after installation are also discussed."
"An experimental ionospheric sounder has been constructed for vertical-incidence or oblique sounding in the frequency range 600 kHz to 2 MHz. The equipment employs an FM linear frequency sweep transmission generated by direct synthesis from a frequency standard; an identical sweep is used for demodulation at the receiver. Sounding records, made at night over a 2000-km path, exhibit 10-μs resolution and show no interference from broadcast stations. Radiated power ranged from 25 to 250 watts. The advantage of good time delay resolution, together with suppression of interfering signals, makes possible ionospheric sounding of greatly improved quality in the MF range."
"Legal, financial, and other franchise conditions of Community Antenna Television (CATV) systems are discussed. Technical specifications deemed necessary to provide adequate service to subscribers are advanced."
"A solid-state centralized system of level adjustments of audio signals is described. The problem considered was how to adjust and vary the level of audio signals with the same precision achieved with present mechanical step-attenuators. The method finally decided upon was that of using the variable-impedance characteristic of a forward-biased diode. The diode impedance decreases proportionately to the forward direct current flowing through it."
"A discussion is presented on the design parameters and operating problems connected with transmission of video information across telephone lines."
"There is a growing interest in technical performance specifications for Community Antenna Television (CATV) systems on the part of system operators, manufacturers, and governmental regulatory bodies. There is at present no accepted standard for such operations. This paper outlines the major elements involved in adequate specifications. Numerical performance standards are suggested in some cases; in others, more work appears necessary to develop suitable measuring techniques and to determine the correlation between subjective evaluation of picture quality and measurable video signal characteristics. An Appendix provides a concise tabulation of suggested minimum performance specifications."
"This page or pages intentionally left blank."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Presents the cover/table of contents for the proceedings."
"The authors investigated an inverse problem in adaptive control. From an analysis of certain characteristics of an engineer's behavior they have been able to infer the existence, and possibly uniqueness, of a performance measure of a certain type. The existence of such a measure is significant because it implies that it is possible to objectify the predilection of the engineer. It is obviously far easier to discuss the relative merits of different criterion functionals than it is to compare such abstract entities as preference patterns."
"A procedure for preprocessing pattern recognition data is presented, and it is shown that design and use of recognizers on such preprocessed pattern data results in increased overall recognition accuracy and reduced storage requirements. The preprocessing procedure operates by estimating probability densities p(c, x) of each pattern class c and pattern vector x, using sample pattern data. Sequential reduction steps are then guided by evaluating a statistical similarity functional Sc,x, whose value measures the ability of reduced pattern vectors x'(x) to discriminate between the classes. Since it is usually impossible to successfully estimate the entire joint probability density function of the unreduced pattern vector, the first step is to evaluate the class similarity of each measurement and select a manageable subset. Next, the significant statistical dependencies are accounted for by combining measurements into features and reducing the complexity of these features by a requantization procedure. Experimental results are presented on recognition of hand printed character data. The utility of these pre-processing methods is illustrated by a reduction of several orders of magnitude in the storage requirements of a pattern recognizer operating on the reduced data, without degrading recognition accuracy."
"Viewing pattern recognition as a problem in statistical classification wherein an n-dimensional hypercube is partitioned into category regions with decision boundaries, this paper focuses on a class of nonlinear boundary forms and describes a variable-structure system which is capable of evolving these boundaries adaptively. Most of the present adaptive recognition systems have a priori fixed structure, usually corresponding to a linear decision procedure, and adaptation is performed by parameter optimization. It is apparent that in practice the simple linear system frequently will be an inadequate approximation to the desired boundaries. The central problem in a more general recognition procedure is the selection and analysis of suitable nonlinear relations among measurements. In the system proposed in this paper, the structure adaptation develops as follows: the recognition network initially assumes a linear structure, a set of relations among the input measurements is generated and selected on the basis of a set of design data, and to accomodate these relations, the structure changes to nonlinear. By repetitively generating and selecting additional relations among the measurements, the structure gradually adjusts itself within the class of allowable structures toward an optimal configuration. By means of simulation on a digital computer, the procedure for structure adaptation was successfully applied to a number of practical problems, handwritten numerals, spoken vowels, and electroencephalograms."
"This paper presents a method of choosing the coefficients of prefiltering, series, and feedback compensators in such a way as to meet given time response specifications despite plant parameter variations. A closed loop transmission T(s) which will result in satisfying the time response specifications is chosen in advance. A general approach for calculating compensator coefficients for any single-input single-output configuration is considered. This leads to two sets of nonlinear algebraic equations. To avoid solving these nonlinear equations, a particular configuration is assumed and coefficients of the necessary series compensation are first calculated from measured values of the plant parameters and T(s) by solving a set of linear algebraic equations. The coefficients of the three compensators are then calculated by assigning appropriate roles to each compensator. For certain plant parameter values, the resulting compensator coefficients imply right-half-plane compensator poles and zeros. These can be realized; however, considerations of reliability and economy may require that all compensator poles and zeros be in the left half plane. This problem is illustrated by a simple example. A second example treats a system having five closed loop poles and one zero."
"The Bayesian estimation scheme has proved widely useful in providing estimates of inexactly observable parameters and state variables of noisy linear discrete-time systems for the derivation of an optimal control policy. Controllers may be derived which are adaptive and relatively insensitive to system parameter changes. In this paper dual control schemes are developed for a class of discrete-time noisy extremum systems given by the state equations x(t+1) = Φx(t) + Bu(t) + w(t) (1) z1 (t) = - + v1(t) (2) The optimal control policy is defined as that which minimizes Φt=0 T-1 E {x(t+1)tx(t+1)} The control scheme is intentionally sub-optimal to reduce computation to a feasible level. The technique is to reduce Equation (2) by a series of approximations to a set of linear equations. A set of control schemes may be set up based on the Bayesian estimation approach and the set of linearized equations. An algorithm for choosing at each time interval which of the control schemes is to be used to calculate the control is developed such that it satisfies certain performance criteria. The results of extensive computer studies of one-and two-dimensional extremum systems are presented."
"A method is presented for the construction of the root-locus of feedback control systems containing transport lag or distributed lag. The method utilizes an extension of the generalized parameter-plane representation of the system characteristic equation as developed by Siljak. The technique is primarily graphical and can be applied to high or low-order feedback control systems. An example is given in which the root-locus of a linear feedback control system containing transport lag is constructed. In this example the system gain is chosen as the parameter with respect to which the first two root-loci of the system are constructed. Construction of the remaining infinite number of root-loci can easily be accomplished if necessary. An advantage of this method is that a new root-locus is easily constructed from the system parameter-plane curves for a change in value of one of the system parameters."
"In this paper a technique is proposed for solving the discrete terminal control problem. The plant is assumed to be linear with bounded input. The cost function is a quadratic function of the terminal states. The approach that is used is to change the original minimization problem with differential constraints into a mathematical programming formulation. Due to the linearity of the problem this is a simple operation. Since the cost function is quadratic, the resulting mathematical programming problem becomes a quadratic programming problem. A computationally efficient solution to this quadratic programming problem is presented which uses the properties of the solution of the discrete optimal terminal control problem. For instance it is shown that if the desired terminal point lies outside the reachable set, the optimum control will have at most n-1 control intervals, where n is the order of the system, when the control is not at its maximum magnitude. For the case where the desired point lies within the reachable set, there exists at least one control sequence with at most n intervals when the control is not at its maximum magnitude. The algorithm which is developed uses these properties to avoid the manipulation of any matrices of order greater than n."
"In this paper we consider the problem of selecting an optimal input for identifying an unknown parameter of a known discrete system by observing its output in the presence of Gaussian noise. The system is considered to be a generalized discrete system in which the inputs and possible parameter values are members of a finite set. The criterion for the optimal input is defined as that which maximizes the probability of correctly determining the true parameter value from a multiple hypothesis test. Although the above criterion totally orders the set of inputs, it is a difficult task to select the best inputs. Some theorems are presented which yield a partial ordering whose extension is the desired total ordering. In the special case of strong noise it is shown that the ordering of inputs can be related to the perimeter in the output vector space. The results of the paper are applicable to the selection of both preset input lengths or to adaptive identification."
"A variable structure stochastic automaton responds to the penalties from a random environment by changing its state probability distribution through a reinforcement scheme. This paper discusses the efficiency of learning for a 2-state automaton in terms of expediency and convergence under two types of nonlinear reinforcement schemes, one based on penalty probabilities and the other on penalty strengths. The stability of the asymptotic expected values of the state probability is discussed in detail. The conditions for achieving optimal, and expedient behavior of the automaton are derived. Convergence is discussed in the light of variance analysis. Learning curves can be obtained by solving nonlinear difference equations relating successive expected values, while for the linear case an analytic expression is derived. Finally transformation of penalty strengths to improve asymptotic state probability separation is considered."
"Most of the current knowledge on the quadratic optimization of linear, stochastically influenced dynamic systems rests in a dozen or so key papers written in the last twenty years. With scarce exception, these papers treat the general theory and employ a certain traditional assumptions which seem simple enough to remove -- until one actually tries to remove them for a practical application. This paper will discuss the available methods, and develop new ones where necessary, for relaxing three of these assumptions: namely, that for time-domain design the environment introduce only white noise, that the noise statistics and plant parameters be known rather precisely, and that the command-response and disturbance-rejection properties of the system not both be important. Four equivalent implementations of the optimal control will be derived, of which one, a model-feedback design very similar to those long offered heuristically for adaptive flight control, has important sensitivity and stability advantages under environment and plant-parameter uncertainties."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"Provides a listing of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Discussion is presented of the results of an analog computer study which was conducted to determine the switching surge transients on the planned 500-kV Southern California Edison Company system and to find a means to limit them to a magnitude which would give economic design parameters for the system."
"The bending amplitude method is shown to be a practical and simple means for assessing overhead-conductor vibration in all conventional suspension clamps. It has been found that the bending amplitude, for all practical purposes, is linearly related to conductor vibration strain, the factor considered most closely related to fatigue, and that the relationship is essentially independent of vibration frequency, loop length, conductor tension, and vibration in adjacent spans. The method is recommended, therefore, as a standard for assessing overhead-conductor vibration. A specification for the method is provided along with procedures for analyzing test data and for inspecting conductors and associated hardware for the effects of vibration."
"Insulation requirements for the Tennessee Valley Authority's new 500-kV transmission system were found to be dictated by switching surge transient voltages rather than by lightning surges. Plans and considerations studied by the Tennessee Valley Authority in relation to the employment of 500-kV transmission are presented as comparative data which might be helpful to others interested in EHV installations. Descriptions are given of voltage levels and bundle conductors selected, subconductor arrangements, application of shunt compensation, reactive power supply, lightning performance, system stability, system grounding, insulation requirements, 500-kV bus arrangements and relaying, and transformer capabilities meeting the needs of 500-kV transmission in the TVA service area."
"The Tennessee Valley Authority (TVA) recently completed construction of an approximately 155-mile 500-kV transmission line, which began commercial operation May 15, 1965. Principal features of the line, which consists of three conductors per phase supported by a free-swinging string of 24 ball-and-socket insulators, are described here. Rigid aluminum alloy spacers maintain the equilateral configuration, and two Alumoweld ground wires, insulated from the towers to provide for future communication channels, serve as shielding for the line. The square-base, waisted, self-supporting steel towers have a minimum 40-foot phase spacing."
"The determining factor, used by the Tennessee Valley Authority, in selecting the insulating system for extra-high-voltage (EHV) substations, is the long-duration switching surge. investment in lines and substations makes outages for maintenance economically undesirable; consequently, TVA has designed its stations so that some changes and maintenance can be performed while the equipment is energized. Employment of vertical reach switches is a TVA design feature, which provides an arrangement whereby mechanical equipment can be used to repair breakers and disconnect switches without outage time. The ring bus switching scheme is applicable except in cases where more than three lines and one bank are likely to be involved; then, the main and transfer scheme is adopted."
"Basic factors in planning communication facilities for the Tennessee Valley Authority (TVA) new 500-kV system are discussed and descriptions given of broadband carrier coupling techniques, coupling equipment, and tests for power-line carrier measurements. Single-sideband power-line carrier equipment is evaluated in the light of its role in providing the bulk of communication services between terminals of TVA's first 500-kV line. Expectations that insulated ground wires will perform as communications circuits and the line's radio noise evaluation program are other items discussed."
"In this paper, the authors discuss the desirability of introducing a switching surge test on transformers having system voltages 400 kV and above. A practical method for executing such tests is described, one which utilizes impulse-voltage testing techniques. This method is illustrated by test results from transformers. It is shown that the duration of the surges can be extended by making use of flux reversal in the core. Also, a method for calculating obtainable waveforms is given, and proposals are made on the characteristics of a standard waveform."
"The partial differential equation for the vector potential of salient-pole heteropolar machines is established by considering nonlinearities of the iron and current density fields. The nonlinear equation, similar to Poisson's equation, is transformed into a partial difference equation to find the magnetic induction at discrete points in the cross section of the heteropolar machine. Alternating relaxation methods are used to obtain numerical solutions. The relaxation procedure is accelerated considerably by a new method of adjusting the vector potential between successive iterations. The method is used to find the no-load characteristic and the no-load air-gap flux distributions of a medium-sized 8-pole salient-pole alternator. Calculated voltages and test results show good agreement."
"The 2-phase drag-cup machine is treated as a linear 4-terminal element. The self-impedance of each phase and the mutual impedance between phases are found by obtaining the electromagnetic field components in the air gap between stator and rotor. These components are derived from a single vector field function, the magnetic vector potential. The impedances are functions of the geometrical dimensions, frequency, and the relative slip."
"A speed regulating scheme using a wound rotor induction motor and a static synchronous inverter is investigated. The purpose of the inverter is to receive the slip power from the rotor and to deliver it to the ac line."
"This paper compares the influence of the brush wear on commutators exerted by arcs with the influence of transient high contact voltages, here called flashes. The wear per kilometer travel is expressed as a function of the mechanical load on the brush, the current, the voltage flashes, and the charge transported by arcs. It is important to note that the flashes cause more wear than the arcs. However, strong arcing is accompanied by strong flashes and thus indicates general high brush wear."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"Provides a listing of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"A novel basis has been developed for designing distance relays that will detect ground (earth) faults in a preset zone of transmission lines. The fundamental basis is described, and the relay performance is analyzed mathematically over a wide range of power-system conditions to show its constancy of reach and proper sense of direction. A relay designed on this basis can be zone-packaged and is inherently directional."
"This bibliography is a continuation of similar bibliographies of relay literature which have been published previously in various volumes of AIEE Transactions. The papers listed include references to the subjects of service restoration, testing, and methods of calculation, as well as to the field of relaying. Only the more readily available foreign publications are included. Many of the articles are available in abstract form in Science Abstracts - Section B, the Engineering Index, and other digesting or indexing periodicals, as well as in the original magazine listed. The listing of the titles is subdivided into 13 sections depending upon the general substance of each article. The entries in each section are numbered consecutively and listed in alphabetical order. The name of the first author determines the alphabetical position. Each title is listed in only one section even though some of the papers referred to may cover material in various sections. A list of the periodicals which have been cited and their place of publication is given following the bibliography."
"A new technique for multiplex communication is described, in which orthogonal pulse waveforms are transmitted as simultaneous subcarriers. Information signals are carried in the form of independent amplitude modulations of each subcarrier, and are extracted by means of waveform correlation. Known as ORTHOMUX (orthogonal multiplexing), the new technique offers the advantages of: 1) high spectrum efficiency, 2) maximum rejection of crosstalk and noise, 3) information response down to zero frequency, 4) mixed information rates, 5) simple, compact equipment, and 6) modular flexibility."
"The characteristics of 500-kV transmission lines from a communication viewpoint are discussed based on tests and observations of the Tennessee Valley Authority's first 500-kV line to be placed in service. Dead-line carrier frequency tests included attenuation on the insulated shield wires and phase-coupled power-line carrier arrangements. Modal component attenuation, relative velocity of propagation, and other characteristics of natural mode behavior are covered. Experiences to date on operation of power-line carrier terminals and audio equipment are given, along with a brief resume of RI measurements."
"Some of the wire communications circuits entering electric power stations are used for control and relaying purposes and often are called upon to perform certain operations during periods of power system faults. This constitutes a major problem in the design of the communications system, since power faults usually result in the introduction of extraneous currents and voltages into the commuuications circuit just at the time when the latter is most urgently required to perform its function."
"This paper summarizes a detailed study of the economic system elements required to provide electric service to residential customers. The tools used in this study are the programs described in references."
"A number of wave shapes, which typify the whole spectrum of switching surges in electric utility power systems, are rationally selected. These surges were chosen to facilitate expansion of the basic knowledge of switching surges in regard to both the characteristics of such surges and the ability of insulation to withstand them. They should prove useful in the solution of insulation coordination problems."
"The author of the above-named work, which appeared on pp. 727-741 of the July, 1966, issue of these Transactions, has requested that several corrections be made: In the lower right-hand part of Fig. 1, Gri should be Gr1. The equations in the caption of Fig. 2 are corrected herein, and the caption of Fig. 3 should read, \"The 2-area system with elastic tie line\"; and Fig. 4, \"A 2-area and an n-area stiff tie-line system.\""
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"This page or pages intentionally left blank."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"Provides a listing of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"The salient features of the design and construction of an analog computer for the study of HV-dc transmission systems are described. The special modeling techniques which permitted a relatively low power base simulator which could be interconnected with the ac Transient Network Analyzer are outlined. The completed simulator is a useful tool for the systems planning engineer whereby system and control can be studied in all their complexity while maintaining a reasonable dimension on the output time."
"Interest in HV-dc transmission has fostered development of techniques for the study of dc systems in parallel with extensive ac systems. A digital computer program for the study of steady-state and transient behavior of combined ac/dc systems has been developed, including a detailed representation of a dc link, the capability of representing a large-scale interconnected ac system, and representation of the transient performance including the mutual effects between the ac and dc systems. The evolution and content of the program, together with representative results of studies are presented."
"The design and layout for one of the first HV-dc converter stations (1440 MW) in the United States to be located near \"The Dalles,\" Ore., is described. The coverage ranges from the incoming 230-kV ac buses with the harmonic filters, grid timing supply, etc., through the converter transformers, valve groups, and control, to the ±400-kV outgoing dc buses with the smoothing reactors. The dc system, of which this terminal is a part, will have an 827-mile overhead transmission to the southern terminal at Los Angeles, Calif."
"A new concept in ground distance fault detection has been reduced to practice in a relay, designated as Type SDG. The relay is a zone-packaged unit which gives the engineer flexibility when designing the relaying system for multiple-zone primary and backup protection. It is an impedance-type relay which has a modified mho circle characteristic when plotted on an R-X diagram. Special circuitry prevents incorrect operation due to over-frequency line oscillations, loss of voltage, or double-phase-to-ground faults. Thus, high-speed operation-7 to 11 ms is obtained without sacrificing security."
"The importance and effects of reliable forced outage and availability data upon installed capacity reserve requirements for an electric utility system are discussed. The effects are discussed in relationship to a utility system's ability to maintain equipment and to provide capacity to replace capacity which may be forced out of service due to emergency failures. No attempt is made to treat the subjects of load forecasting, spinning reserve, and tieline regulation. A brief resume of the development and usage of probability methods applied to the determination of forced outage requirements is included."
"When summer air conditioning contributes significantly to an electric utility's system peak load, it is useful, for load forecasting purposes, to separate total system load into two components: temperature-sensitive load and nontemperature-sensitive load. Examination of historical data indicates that temperature-sensitive loads depend not only upon coincident but also antecedent weather conditions. Regression analysis techniques using a digital computer have shown that the combined effect of these weather conditions can be expressed by one composite weather variable (WV). Total system load can then be expressed as Basic Load plus the product of WV times a coefficient of air-conditioning saturation. Results obtained by application of this method to historical data (1949-1964) of Public Service Electric and Gas Company are presented."
"This is a companion paper to an earlier one.1 The computer program described is divided into three parts: a) the determination of the coefficientsfor(l), (2), and (4) of Watchon1 for the best fit to the calculated cost and plant pumping ratio data, b) the determination of the lowest average unit investment cost, and other pertinent information, to be shown later, for each of the potential sites for various conditions, and c) the arrangement of the results of part b in the order of preference. All the programs are written in Fortran for the 7074 computer."
"Refined load flow calculation methods will exploit topological properties of the underlying network. An exact topological criterion, as well as a powerful handy approximation for most economic generation of the impedance matrix, are presented. Additional advantage may be taken from topology-controlled selection of reference bus and from appropriate insertion of artificial nodes. The new method has been carefully checked on a variety of power system networks of different size, the 30-, 57-, and 118-node standard test systems, authorized by IEEE Computer Application Subcommittee, among others."
"This paper describes the mechanical brush gear designed for carrying the 1.6 million-ampere 1-second pulses from the rotors of the Canberra homopolar generator. Current density in the copper graphite brushes rises to about 10 000 A/in2 at full current. The brushes are also required to operate at rubbing speeds of up to 33 000 ft/min. The experiments that were made to set the design limits for the brushes and the results obtained from these experiments are described; the design requirements and details of the brush gear as manufactured are given; and their operation in the homopolar generator is discussed."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"Provides a listing of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"A power system is assumed to be a communication network where interconnecting lines are information channels and current flow is equivalent to information flow. Given a set of power stations and cities with current demands, the interconnecting (lossless) links may be unreliable. Techniques to compute the probability of satisfying the power demands and methods of increasing this probability are discussed. In reality, there is a cost associated with sending a flow through a given line. A synthesis procedure, based on linear programming, to design a minimum cost distribution system which satisfies the given power demands is presented. Various extensions and generalizations of the problem are also given."
"Since 1960 the corona-loss characteristics of a variety of extra-high-voltage (EHV) transmission-line configurations have been under study at Project EHV [1], [2]. This paper presents results from the analysis of corona losses measured under all weather conditions experienced during 2½ years of observation of single or bundled conductors at 500 or 700 kV. In addition, corona characteristics are presented for switching-surge transients and severe steady-state overvoltages. The purpose of this paper is: 1) to summarize some of the statistical aspects of fair-and foul-weather corona-loss observations for the configurations studied, and 2) in terms of electrical and meteorological parameters, to describe an equation for corona loss on EHV lines that is in a form directly applicable by transmission engineers to EHV-line design."
"The results of three years of experimental and theoretical research on transmission-line radio noise at Project EHV are presented. Computer programs were developed to process the data on a statistical basis, and as output provide both histograms and regression analyses for four test configurations operated at the 500-and 700-kV levels. Fair weather radio-noise levels were found to be significantly affected by relative humidity, relative air density, and absolute value of wind velocity, and these relationships are discussed. Wet-weather effects are presented and discussed. Both fair-weather and wet-weather experimental results are incorporated in a theoretical analysis of transmission-line radio noise resulting in a procedure which enables the transmission-line designer to predict, in advance of construction, average fair-weather and wet-weather radio-noise profiles for EHV transmission lines."
"In an earlier paper, the authors presented a method of simulating a transmission system including ac and dc lines in parallel, and established the validity of the simulation. In this paper the method, which utilizes a direct and quadrature axis representation, is used to study with the aid of an analog computer the electromechanical oscillations in a system consisting of one machine tied to an infinite bus through two parallel transmission lines, one of which is ac and the other dc. Results make it clear that with proper dynamic control of power flow in the dc line, a substantial degree of damping of transient power swings may be achieved."
"Oscillations which developed on the initial transmission tie between the Northwest and Southwest systems brought about trip-outs and threatened to limit its usefulness. The analog study described reveals much about the nature of the oscillations and shows some unusual relief measures to be possible. While sources of the negative damping were indicated to be such that correcting them directly might be impracticable, means of offsetting them with stabilizing effort developed by special control of fast responding generation are proposed. The required stabilizing effort is indicated to be within the capability of a large nonreheat steam unit. This amount is startlingly small for influencing such large systems."
"This paper discusses the use of EHV shunt reactors on transmission systems from the application and reactor design viewpoints. Various factors relating to reactor construction, including testing, are discussed, and emphasis is placed on a gapped-core design for EHV applications. The results of steady-state and transient performance studies for this design are presented."
"Since the demonstration that the switching-surge strength of suspension insulators is markedly influenced by the tower from which it is suspended, considerable test work has been done to evaluate this effect on steel and aluminum structures. An extension of this test work to wood-pole structures shows unexpected advantages in switching-surge strength due principally to the smaller electrical mass of the wood, but in part to its insulating properties. New evidence is also obtained on the reseal property of wood insulation, though causal relationships are not yet understood. Impulse strength tests of wood-porcelain systems corroborate and expand on prior findings."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"This page or pages intentionally left blank."
"Index of authors of papers and participants in discussions and titles of papers and topics discussed."
"This page or pages intentionally left blank."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"Provides a listing of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"A new method called the step starting of induction motors has been analytically developed. Pairs of stator terminals are connected in sequence to a voltage or current pulse from a variable frequency source. The frequency of the voltage or current pulse is zero at standstill, and it is gradually increased to bring the rotor up to required speed. In this paper, it is shown that the starting torque with a rated current pulse is much greater than the starting torque with a voltage pulse, the magnitude of the voltage pulse being that required for steady-state rated peak current in the stator. Part II of the paper discusses the electromechanics of the method with current pulses fed to the stator. It is found that the torque developed is proportional to the square of the magnitude of the current pulse. Variations in torque at any running speed are obtained by varying the magnitude of the current pulse. Any desired speed-torque characteristic of the motor is obtained by properly controlling the current with a current-control mechanism. Low resistance increases the torque developed in starting as well as in running. This analysis holds good for an unsaturated machine."
"A new method called the step starting and step running of induction motors has been analytically developed. Pairs of stator terminals are connected in sequence to a voltage or current pulse from a variable frequency source. The frequency of the voltage or current pulse is zero at standstill and is gradually increased to bring the rotor up to required speed against a given load. In part I of the paper it was shown that the starting torque with a rated current pulse is much greater than the starting torque with a voltage pulse; the magnitude of the voltage pulse being that required for steady-state rated peak current in the stator. This part of the paper discusses the electromechanics of the method with current pulses fed to the stator. It is found that torque developed is proportional to the square of the magnitude of the current pulse. Variations in torque at any running speed are obtained by varying the magnitude of the current pulse. Any desired speed-torque characteristic of the motor is obtained by properly controlling the current with a current-control mechanism. Low resistance of the rotor increases the average torque developed in step starting as well as running. The analysis holds good for an unsaturated machine."
"Flux densities are determined at certain points of the end, coils (field points) of turbine-generators as a result of stator and rotor currents. Coils of the stator and rotor end windings are assumed to close through the air gap and all iron boundaries are present and assumed to have infinite permeability. Stator currents considered as sources are assumed to flow as sinusoidal current sheets on cylindrical rings and washers, replacing the conical surfaces of the two layers. This is accomplished by dividing the end winding in zones by means of equally spaced z = constant planes. Only one cylindrical ring is assigned to the rotor. The coils are represented by their center lines. The field points are determined by the intersections of these center lines with the central planes of each zone."
"Electromagnetic forces on the end coils of turbine-generators, following a 3-phase short circuit from no load, are determined for different positions of the rotor, ωts, in the first cycle. Forces are given by F = Il ×B. Cylindrical coordinates are used. Flux density on the field points on the coils will result from stator alternating and direct currents, rotor transient currents, and, indirectly, all currents which are induced in a nonmagnetic retaining ring. Flux densities interact with total current in each coil to give forces. The total torque on the end winding is calculated at different ωts, and its maximum is determined. Radial forces acting on both layers are analyzed. Hence, the most severe load on the supports is determined. The normal forces on the coils are calculated."
"An analysis of the performance to be expected of a 3-phase squirrel-cage induction motor which has two independent sets of stator windings is made and the conclusions verified by tests."
"In this paper, the authors explain the various phases of the conduction process taking place in the commutator brush contact. At light loads and low speeds, the voltage drop in the contact layer is low (in the order of 0.5 volt). At increased loads, however, the trailing-edge voltage suddenly increases; this is a case of breakdown in the contact layer. Statistically, this is attributed to the fast change of entropy, now defined as the ratio of the incremental energy destroyed in the contact layer to the contact-layer voltage. Since entropy is a function of state, this indicates that a change of conduction state has taken place, bringing about a voltage rise up to 3 volts. Experimental oscillographic studies clearly confirm the existence of this phenomenon, and it should be included in commutation calculations to assess accurately the effects of commutation."
"Complete inductance expressions for the windings of practical slip-ring machines are derived in terms of air-gap magnetomotive force and air-gap specific permeance. These expressions are presented in a form which facilitates verification by experiment. Deviations between the inductances of the practical and the idealized slip-ring primitive machines are-noted for a variety of winding configurations. It is shown that the existence of a nonzero third harmonic of magnetomotive force plays a significant role in the form of the cylindrical-salient and cylindrical-cylindrical inductance expressions, especially with regard to similarities between the two. Moreover, it is demonstrated that, for conditions which result in zero third-harmonic magnetomotive force in the air gap, the inductance quantities just mentioned revert to a form which, for practical machines, is consistent with that of an ideal generalized machine."
"Inductance and specific permeance measurements which were taken on a 3-kW salient-pole machine are presented. These measurements support both the inductance ratios and the absolute magnitude resulting from the derivations given in Part I of the paper. Some of the inductance measurements are performed in what is believed to be an original application of the approach of Jones and of Prescott and El-Kharashi which allows a continuous analog read out of change of inductance as a function of change of position. Measurements of air-gap permeance suggest certain approximations may be made with reference to saturation and the equivalent field winding at the air gap."
"The static behavior of torque meters, based on the principle of magnetic stress-anisotropy, has been thoroughly investigated for a device configuration suitable for incorporation in a rotating shaft without loss of accuracy. A design and operating procedure has been developed which will readily yield a device having a transfer characteristic which is reproducible and linear to within plus or minus 1 percent of its rated output. With relatively simple precautions this can be improved to plus or minus 0.2 percent, and the strong possibility of improvement to 0.1 percent is indicated."
"The direct method of Liapunov is applied to the problem of power system stability. The method is first compared with the phase plane technique and equal-area criterion, with all three approaches giving identical results for the equivalent 1-machine system. A Liapunov function for the 3-machine system is developed, and conservative prediction of stability is possible if the machine velocities and angles are known at the time of final system disturbance. The method is easily extended to multimachine systems. Further work is needed in the area of easier determination of better Liapunov functions and the inclusion of such items as resistance, regulator action, governor action, and damping torques."
"Analysis of the stability of power systems following a transient disturbance involves the study of a large set of nonlinear differential equations. A new approach to the quantitative study of the transient stability of large power systems is presented, using the second method of Liapunov. A region of asymptotic stability for the postfault system is obtained through Liapunov theorems. If the initial conditions of the postfault system at the time of switching to restore normal operation lie within this region, the system will be stable. The extreme value of the time at which the conditions of the system are at the boundary of the region of asymptotic stability gives the critical switching time. A general description of a digital computer program and the results of its application to a 4-machine system are given."
"Improvement of transient stability of a 2-circuit ac transmission link by use of switched series capacitors is analyzed by equal-area diagrams for two kinds of disturbances: 1) a permanent fault on one ac circuit, cleared by opening a section of that circuit, without reclosure and 2) a permanent fault on a dc line operating in parallel with the ac line. In both cases, the aggregate megavar rating of series capacitors required for a given transient stability limit is shown to be smaller if some capacitors are switched than if all are unswitched. Moreover, the scheme with switched capacitors reduces the angular swing of the machines and the fluctuation of load voltages during the swing."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"Provides a listing of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Overall critical evaluation of the dynamics of EHV dc-power transmission requires that a variety of system conditions and effects of many parameters be studied. Problems can be strictly electrical or electromechanical. In general, those that fall in the former category are of short time duration, while those in the latter may be either of intermediate duration, on the order of 1 second, or of long duration, from 2 to 40 seconds. The approach used, whether it be 1) a physical model such as a transient network analyzer; 2) an analog computer, sometimes called an electronic differential analyzer, or 3) a digital computer, will depend upon the specific problem at hand. The capabilities and limitations of the analog computer in providing solutions to electromechanical problems are outlined in this paper, and the results reported give insight into the dynamic performance characteristics of a dc link under constant current or power control, with or without a parallel ac line."
"Some typical results of an analog computer study of a parallel ac-dc power system are given in a companion paper. Commutations of both inverter and rectifier bridges are among the simulations detailed. Recognizing that individual commutations are of negligible importance for many phenomena, a simpler system simulation seemed feasible on the analog computer, and this was begun. Not only was the simulation improved but transient phenomena could be examined, which in real time may be of longer duration than simulated and accuracy will be retained. This is of special importance in studying electromechanical transients in parallel ac-dc power systems, especially during sudden load changes. The validity of the new simulation is established."
"Studies of stability problems are expected to be developed in parallel ac-dc systems. Results obtained by the experiment on the artificial ac and dc transmission facilities were: the more the dc power of steady state compared with the ac power, the more the transient stability is improved. The transient stability is improved if the dc power is rapidly increased in case of faults in the ac system. The 3-phase short circuit at the sending ac system results in a serious decrease of the dc power. This decrease causes the generator to accelerate at the sending end. Two control methods for the countermeasure are presented."
"The results of a digital computer investigation of the effects of unbalanced alternating voltages on converter operation is described. The problem is approached from the standpoint of symmetrical components and an exact analysis has been carried out for an arbitrary ratio of positive and negative sequence voltages. Variation of the grid control firing angle has been considered permitting a full range of rectifier and inverter performance. Effect of the magnitude of commutating reactance is also investigated. With the analysis of the data obtained from the exact representation indicated, it is possible to obtain the sequence impedances. It should be noted that these sequence impedances are a mathematical simplification and are not made of physically realizable R, L, or C, components."
"High-voltage dc transmission has been proposed for linking the power networks of the Pacific Northwest and Southwest. An advantage of direct current, not possessed by alternating current, is that one-half the rated power of a line can be transmitted, with one conductor out of service, by allowing the current in the remaining conductor to return through the earth. To realize this advantage, however, it is necessary to insure against certain possible harmful effects from ground current flow."
"The conducting of moderately high direct current through earth between variously sized electrodes installed in different types of soil has provided test data which, while in general agreement with expectations [1]-[3], places much more emphasis on the electrode-to-earth contact area than had been necessary in past designs, which were primarily used for conducting ground currents of short time duration. Analysis of the data indicates that the design of a grounding grid which is to carry current to earth continuously for several hours can be treated as two independent problems: The outer dimensions, or perimeter, should be based upon computed resistance to remote earth [4], with utilization of the low-resistivity valuesg usually measured at wide probe spacings. The contact area should be based upon the power dissipation value computed from the square of the proposed current density and from the measured soil-resistivity value at the electrode-to-soil interface."
"A brief outline is presented of major considerations when the earth is proposed for use as a return conductor on high-voltage direct-current transmission systems. Approximate values are given of earth potential gradients near an electrode, as determined in 1963 near Tracy switchyard by relatively low magnitude test currents and small spacings of test electrodes. Similar, more precise values are listed from large-scale tests conducted in March 1964 between Tracy switchyard and a point west of Red Bluff, Calif., with larger current flows and an electrode spacing of approximately 175 miles. Disturbances of a significant level are indicated as being confined to very small areas surrounding each electrode. Details of test equipment, transmission line facilities, permanent and temporary ground mats which were used as electrodes, and locations of various oil, gas, and water lines in close proximity to the electrodes are discussed. Design, installation, and general operation of a deep well electrode adjacent to the Tracy switchyard ground mat is described. The shielding effects of separation of ac and dc grounding points, as illustrated by specific test data and confirmed in laboratory experiments, is presented. Some possibilities for use of such shielding in limiting adverse flow of direct current in the neutral circuits of high-voltage ac systems are indicated. Additional tests to obtain further data for use in final designs are suggested."
"Increased reliability of EHV dc transmission systems is obtained through the use of the earth as a return circuit during emergency periods when one pole is out of service. Earth return operation requires electrodes which can conduct full line current into the earth without damage to surrounding underground structures and facilities. This paper describes theoretical and field investigations made to determine the most suitable type of electrode for use in a heavily industrialized metropolitan area."
"This paper presents an analysis of the performance and specific power output of iron-free alternators utilizing superconducting field windings and room-temperature armatures. Two basic configurations are considered: a stationary superconducting field winding surrounded by a rotating room-temperature armature and a rotating room-temperature armature surrounded by a stationary superconducting winding."
"This paper describes a program to determine the operating characteristics of an experimental alternator using super-conducting field coils. The alternator itself consisted of a stationary superconducting 4-pole field winding made of 6800 turns of copper-plated Formvar-insulated Nb-25-percent Zr wire which had a critical current of 28 amperes. The field winding was inserted into a finger at the bottom of a typical laboratory-type helium test dewar."
"This paper establishes the mathematical structure of orthogonal networks where both open-and closed-path currents flow simultaneously. A summary of the augmented all-mesh and inverse networks is presented. The structure of the network laws of all variables in the orthogonal networks is derived and simplifications of the conventional mesh and open-path networks are presented."
"The purpose of this paper is to present the principles governing the determination of the discount rate which should be used by engineers in making economic and feasibility studies, especially when using the present worth method. The discount rate should reflect current and expected interest costs and equity earnings rather than the imbedded costs as allowed by regulatory authorities in the rate of return."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"This page or pages intentionally left blank."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"Provides a listing of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"PAPERS presented at the EHV Symposium cover the field testing of four 345-kV experimental cable systems at Cornell University from February 2, 1961, to August 31, 1964. This field testing included the testing and examination of cable, joints, and terminals, which had been subjected to the rigorous test schedule, and an accounting of a large-scale commercial installation of a 345-kV cable system."
"This paper presents the results of field testing of four 345-kV cable systems conducted by Cornell University, Ithaca, N. Y. More than three years of field testing and subsequent laboratory examination and test demonstrated that these cable systems can carry large blocks of power, 500 MVA or more depending upon governing conditions (soil, ambient temperature, load factor, etc.) at voltages up to 400-kV 3-phase, under operating conditions similar to those applying to lower voltage transmission cables installed without forced cooling or otherwise controlled temperatures. The electric utility industry now has several types of reliable under-ground cable systems available for operation with very low losses, which can be maintained at conductor temperatures of 750°to 85°C for normal and 900 to 100°C for emergency operation."
"After 3.6 years of overvoltage and high-temperature cycles at the Cornell University High-Voltage Testing Facility,1 sections of a prototype 345-kV 500-MVA cable and joints were returned for evaluation. Dielectric strength and loss were measured on the completed cable. Oil and paper properties were compared with similar tests made prior to the field testing."
"Upon completion of the 345-kV field test at the Cornell Test Station, representative sections of the high-pressure pipe-type cable supplied for the test by the authors' company were subjected to laboratory evaluation. No indications of instability or significant deterioration resulting from the field test were found. The returned cable withstood the standard high-voltage-time test for new cable and had slightly lower power factor at all temperatures than it had before being tested, as well as essentially unchanged radial power-factor distribution. Mechanical properties and dielectric strength of the paper were not significantly affected. No electrical disturbance of any kind was found in the cable proper or in the joints; however, there was slight carbonization in the vicinity of electrode interruptions provided for power-factor measurement and also at the base of the paper buildup in one of the terminals. Both the-saturating oil and the pipe oil were in essentially the original condition. Apparently, however, some of the pipe oil had migrated into the cable from the potheads because of expansion and contraction incident to load cycling."
"As the final phase of the Cornell cable system development program [1], a comprehensive laboratory evaluation of aged cable and accessory components was carried out in the manufacturers' laboratories. Electrical, physical, and chemical tests on aged components provide a basis for comparison with characteristic data, when new. Results demonstrate essentially that complete system stability was maintained throughout the field test program. In addition, the results of a load cycle test run at greatly reduced pressures on the self-contained high-pressure oil-filled cable, conducted in the manufacturers' laboratory, are described."
"Upon completion of the 345-kV cable field testing at Cornell University, the cable and accessories employed in the low-pressure oil-filled cable system were returned to the cable manufacturers' laboratories for analysis. This paper describes the various electrical, chemical, and physical tests performed on components of the low-pressure oil-filled system. Where practicable, the post-Cornell results are compared with pre-Cornell data."
"The evaluation of four 345-kV potheads shows that the combination of capacitance grading and factory-wound foil stress cone can effectively terminate oil-filled 345-kV cables. Experience early in the test program prompted minor changes in the pothead design. The modifications were thoroughly tested and were incorporated in the pothead for cable system 3. The examination of this pothead confirms the completely satisfactory design which is now available for service installations."
"Three G & W potheads successfully withstood 3½ years of testing at Cornell with no evidence of electrical, mechanical, or thermal instability. Installation experience indicated that some features were susceptible to damage during installation. These features have been eliminated or suitably revised to prevent such problems in commercial installations."
"In 1953, it was foreseen by electric utilities that, in approximately 10 years, underground 345-kV transmission would be required in some areas. In the 1960s, it became desirable to extend 345-kV transmission circuits underground into the New York City metropolitan area. On the basis of information obtained from the Cornell research project, it was possible to plan and install a large commercial installation; approximately 60 circuit miles are now in service. The capability of one circuit is over 500 MVA, and with capabilities of this order there is a decided economic advantage over presently used lower transmission voltages."
"A detailed statement will be given on the application of a method, derived from known principles [1], for searching for leaks. In regard to the single-phase cables, this method should solve the difficult problem concerning the localization of leaks on 3-core cables without reference phase. A second part will be based on the observation of a few leaks, some of which are caused by cable movements [2]-[5]."
"This paper reviews the circumstances which led up to the conclusion that a new type of joint was needed for aluminum conductors in underground cables of 120-kV rating and up, and 1 000 000 circular mil conductor size and over with compact stranding. It describes the development of an induction welded joint, the characteristics of the completed weld, and the equipment needed in field work."
"This proposal covers standards for shunts used in connection with direct-current indicating instruments and other measuring devices. It was sponsored by the IEEE Power Systems Instrumentation and Measurements Committee since there are no existing industry standards for this type of equipment. Included are definitions of shunt terminology, general physical requirements, and basic accuracy and performance criteria. While sizes and ratings are not included in IEEE Standards, it was deemed advisable to append some recommendations on current and millivolt ratings with certain basic size and installation requirements to serve as guides to both users and manufacturers."
"This paper presents definitions prepared by a Working Group of the IEEE Joint Subcommittee on Application of Probability Methods of the Power System Engineering Committee and the Power Generation Committee, in cooperation with the Equipment Availability Subcommittee of the Prime Movers Committee of the Edison Electric Institute. The purpose of the definitions is to obtain uniformity and clarification in the reporting and analyzing performance records of generating equipment. These definitions are general and should not be construed to be reporting instructions."
"The general design requirement for an electric-hydraulic governing system for hydraulic turbines is that it must sense speed electrically, produce a signal suitable for control, and use this signal to position the gate servomotors. It must be capable of performing all auxiliary functions previously required plus some desirable new ones, such as joint control. The dead band must be less than 0.01 percent and the dead time less than 0.25 second. Its selling price should be equal to, or less than, mechanical governors. Its transient response characteristics must be excellent. The paper discusses how some of these goals have been met and presents results from field and shop tests."
"A series of tests have been conducted at 138 and 345 kV to determine field intensities and body currents to which live line transmission linemen are subjected in various methods of working. These tests confirm that field intensities and body currents encountered in present practices, for the methods and voltages of the tests, are well below the threshold of feeling and perception. With still higher voltages, body currents can be maintained at acceptably low levels by means of adequate shielding, for any method of working."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"This page or pages intentionally left blank."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"Provides a listing of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"The unit commitment program for the GE 412 digital process control computer optimizes the shutdown and startup of generating units so as to achieve minimum system fuel costs. Additional savings in the order of two to fifteen dollars per year per MW of installed capacity are estimated [1] over those gained from a feasible schedule. The program is flexible and considers numerous special operating restrictions. Several problems pertinent to Florida Power Corporation were solved within the program framework. Interrelation with other programs and various output options are discussed."
"The objective of this study was to determine the feasibility of using Dynamic Programming1 to solve the generating unit commitment problem. The main difficulty connected with this problem, is that factorial N, a large number for even a relatively small N, plays a central role in any straightforward formulation of the problem."
"In economic operation of electric power systems, reasonable schedules for generating equipments and for economic load dispatching should not be considered separately, but should be treated as parts of an integrated operation scheduling."
"The maximum principle by Pontryagin is applied to the problem of determining the operation of a hydro-steam generating system for the minimum generating costs. The general dispatch formulas are derived for power systems with hydroelectric plants having fixed head, varying head, and hydraulic coupling, both with and without river transport delay and wave phenomena. Techniques are demonstrated which greatly simplify the computer solutions for fixed and varying head operation."
"This paper describes how a digital computer program intended for system planning studies was used to investigate several questions related to pumped storage planning and operation. Among the items investigated were reservoir size, the influence of cycle efficiency on pumped storage capacity factor and operating cost, and the effect of load forecasting deviations on system economy. A brief description of the program is provided."
"While the economic factors associated with the planning and design of a pumped storage hydro project must include system operation concepts, the day to day operation of a given pumped hydro project presents a different set of economic decisions. In this connection, the array of data or information that must be presented to the dispatcher is, of necessity, different in form from that presented to the planner. Therefore, the scope of discussion is limited to the problem of day to day and minute to minute scheduling and dispatching pumped storage hydro in combination with steam generating capacity in an optimum manner. The example used for discussion is the Smith Mountain pumped storage project."
"A method is presented for optimizing the weekly or daily dispatch of a power system consisting of 16 hydro plants, 4 thermal plants, and a pumped storage plant. The main features of the method are: treatment of hydro plants in cascade on a river and its tributaries with freedom for heads to vary at each plant; allowances for hydro units out of service; optimum thermal unit scheduling, including the effect of start-up costs; maintenance of a minimum spinning reserve requirement in each interval in the scheduling period; inclusion of speed-no-load losses and head variation effects in scheduling pumped storage units. The optimization techniques and salient features of a computer program using these techniques are presented, together with numerical schedules from a pilot study based on a system model."
"This paper describes a new computational approach to the problem of the most economical operation of hydraulic plants in electric power systems, employing L. S. Pontryagin's maximum principle. The economical operation of a simplified model system is treated and the long range operation of a multireservoir system is considered. The relaxation method is successfully applied to the solution of optimal water usage policy in a model system of two reservoir-type and three regulating pondage-type hydraulic plants, with one equivalent thermal plant. Comparison is made between the maximum principle approach and dynamic programming. It becomes evident that the maximum principle is a powerful tool not only for the treatment of engineering problems, such as time-minimal control of servomechanisms, but also as a new technique of mathematical programming for the treatment of problems in mathematical economics."
"Decision tables for real time process control logically present the solution to a problem and directly replace flowcharts. A decision table is a self-contained description of the solution to a complex decision problem. It presents all pertinent variables, the rules for combining possible conditions, and actions desired. The power of a decision table is that format and programming are independent of the problem, and it is thereby possible to automate much of the manpower required to design, program, test, and document solutions to complex control problems."
"Previous designs of capacitive potential devices are briefly reviewed with an explanation of why they were not suitable for revenue metering. A new design metering accuracy potential device, capable of meeting 0.3-accuracy class at 400 VA, is presented. Theoretical error formulas are developed and confirmed by actual test results. Adverse effects such as temperature change, frequency shift, voltage change, rainfall, and contamination are considered. Transient response and ferroresonance tests are included."
"Response characteristics of a resistor divider whose high-and low-voltage arms consists of different characteristic elements are investigated and theoretical response equations to the unit step, triangular wave, and exponential front wave are derived. Detailed numerical calculations are carried out on the response of such a resistor divider and error for measuring the impulse chopped on the front and the optimum shunt capacitance value to minimize it are clarified."
"This paper is based upon a questionnaire sent to 175 engineers in utility, manufacturing, and engineering companies to determine the practices and problems involved in the application and operation of relaying to detect ground faults on transmission, subtransmission, and distribution lines. The letter transmitting the questionnaire requested the engineers to refrain from doing research for the answers, since it was felt that they had a mental picture of their general problems which was sufficiently accurate for the broad classifications of the questionnaire. It is interesting to note that the practices in most categories are quite similar. The solution of ground relaying problems varied with a suggested trend toward distance ground relaying."
"No single anchor can perform equally well in all types of soils, hence the need for various types of anchors to suit the surrounding media. The intention of this paper is to present the various considerations in design, selection, testing, and application of EHS (extra-high strength) anchors under different conditions."
"Since early 1946, when grounding of the 34.5-kV system of the Wisconsin Michigan Power Company was established through installation of a Peterson coil, very complete records have been maintained with regard to all ground faults on the system. The results of an analysis of these records, covering 19 years of operation with resonant grounding, are contained in the paper. Resonant neutral grounding was selected because it promised the elimination of many voltage dips which, otherwise, would be the causes of interruptions in the manufacturing processes of many paper mills in the area of the utility company since paper mill drives are extremely sensitive to speed variations brought about by sudden voltage dips. Experiences with this kind of system grounding have been most satisfactory."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"Provides a listing of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"The transient and dynamic stability of the Peace River 500-kV transmission system was studied with a new digital computer program. The detailed representation included direct and quadrature machine axes, saturation, excitation, and governing systems. Stability is maintained following faults by employing a braking resistor and additional stabilizing signal to the generator excitation system."
"In this paper, the authors detail the outdoor switching surge tests performed at Project EHV, Lenox, Mass., to determine the insulation requirements of the Peace River 500-kV transmission system. Because of the relatively low cost of right-of-way, the use of V strings was not economical; hence, the tests were performed with free-swinging suspension strings. All tests were made on a center phase configuration, since this has proved to be of lower strength in comparison with the outside phases. The investigations included several rates of precipitation and variations in insulator swing angle. Comparative tests were carried out for rigid and guyed-V type towers."
"Switching surge, impulse, and 60-cycle tests performed on the APS 500-kV tower-insulation system proved the adequacy of the design which consisted of twenty-four53/4 X 10-inch insulators in V-string configuration with an 11-foot 2-inch minimum strike distance. The minimum switching surge withstand voltage is 965 kV. Minimum impulse critical flashover voltage is 1890 kV, and the minimum 60-cycle flashover and withstand voltages are 707 kV and 660 kV rms, respectively. The switching surge test results from the full-scale tower agreed closely with those predicted from simulated tower-insulation tests. The switching surge flashover probability curve tends to follow the equations for a normal cumulative distribution curve to about the 2 to 5 percent probability level, whereas previous test results showed correlation only to the 5 to 10 percent probability level."
"The Allegheny Power System 500-kV transmission system has been designed before commercial 500-kV lines have had any service experience. To achieve an optimum design, studies were performed in all areas. This paper presents the results of the study of right-of-way width and conductor size. The line was designed to be compatible with existing Type B (54 dB) radio station signal levels and the minimum conductor size and right-of-way width (200 feet) were selected based on comparative data from operating and test facility lines. An economic evaluation of a number of satisfactory conductor systems (2-, 3-, and 4-conductor bundles) was made resulting in the selection of a 2-conductor bundle of 1.681-inch ACSR conductors for this system."
"The results are reported on about 5000 separate switching surge tests carried out on mocked-up and prototype towers by the General Electric Company at Project EHV in Pittsfield, Mass., and by Centro Elettrotecnico Sperimentale Italiano (CESI) in Milan, Italy. From these tests, a composite tower insulation strength was determined for switching surges in the 1400-to 1600-kV range, and these results were the basis for the tower design of the Manicouagan 735-kV transmission system."
"The mechanism of ac corona caused by the presence of ice particles is shown. Two kinds of precipitation are distinguished: the snow-like and hail-like forms. Conditions of snowcover formation on transmission-line conductors are analyzed. This cover may result in the highest corona energy losses, caused mainly by steady pulseless corona in the positive, and Trichel impulses in the negative, half-cycle. No streamers are reported from the snowcover by conductor voltage gradients of less than 20 kV rms/cm. Streamer discharges and high radio interference are caused by impinging snowflakes and liquid or frozen waterdrops on the conductor surface. The results of laboratory tests confirmed field investigations on the Hydro-Quebec 315-kV transmission system. The work reported in this paper was supported in part by financial assistance from the National Research Council of Canada in connection with the laboratory investigation."
"The Detroit Edison Company, in planning their 345-kV system, felt it advisable to undertake a critical examination of the electrical design of 345-kV steel tower circuits. The investigation of performance of double-circuit steel tower line design for 12, 15, 17, and 20 insulation units is reported. Special emphasis is placed on line reliability as influenced by contaminated insulators."
"The impulse and switching surge flashover characteristics of 345-kV structures, consisting of a 15-to 20-unit string of insulators hanging from the crossarm of a steel tower, have been investigated. In all cases, the horizontal air gap between the conductor and the face of the tower was coordinated with the insulator string so that both discharge paths would have equal flashover voltages when tested with positive-polarity switching surge waves under dry conditions. New, weathered, and service-contaminated insulator units were used in this study. The switching surge flashover characteristics of insulator strings, as well as those of the horizontal air gap, are given for both positive and negative polarities and for both dry and wet conditions. The impulse flashover characteristics of insulator strings hanging from the tower crossarm are found to be equal to published catalogue data for both polarities, while the impulse flashover characteristics of the horizontal air gap are found to be about 95 percent of that of NEMA rod gap with the same spacing for the positive polarity and about 92 percent for the negative polarity. As the insulator string swings towards the tower, the flashover level of the 345-kV structure is determined by the discharge path having the lower flashover voltage."
"A statistical analytical method has been developed for the insulation design of transmission lines. A computer program is described which computes flashover frequency based on a consideration of the statistics of insulation performance. The METIFOR digital weather model is incorporated as basic input to the program. Multisurface towers are considered, and optimum and minimum design dimensions are determined. The relative importance of design factors and insulation duties based on the results of METIFOR line design studies is discussed. Extension of the METIFOR weather model to include variables influencing contaminated perfornance is also described."
"The 500-kV line and station designs described will be used in development of an extensive EHV grid, which will overlay present lower voltage systems in the Pacific Northwest. In addition, they will be used for the northerly portions of two 500-kV interregional tie lines which will interconnect systems of the Pacific Northwest and Pacific Southwest."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"Provides a listing of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"With the advent of automatic loading of large generator units, it becomes necessary to establish safe and reliable limits for rates of change of loading. The most economical and practical way of determining such limits is by field testing the units in question. This paper describes the instrumentation and test techniques presently used by Philadelphia Electric Company to determine these rates. Economics of unit response testing, including types of test equipment and manpower requirements are discussed. Test results for two boiler-turbine-generator units and a hydro unit are presented as typical examples."
"The Bull Run supercritical unit was simulated by a linearized mathematical model based entirely on physical laws and design data, using an approach verified by comparison of an earlier simulation with field tests. A large set of differential and algebraic equations was solved to obtain transient responses. These responses were matched by transfer functions to obtain a process model which represented all significant plant inputs and outputs. In this study, appropriate use was made of a small digital computer, a large digital computer, and an analog computer. The process model of the Bull Run unit is believed to be the most detailed mathematical model which has been obtained for a supercritical electrical generation unit."
"A method is presented for finding the response of a large power system to cyclic load variations. The waveform of the load variation is represented as a Fourier series. The power system is represented by a set of first-order, linear differential equations. These are solved to give the response of the system to each harmonic component, and the results combined to give the total response. Results from a sample problem are given as an example."
"A general approach is sought for transient analysis of interconnected electric power systems and design of frequency and tie-line power regulators by applying the matrix methods of multipole system feedback control theory."
"The error adaptive control computer (EACC) permits new and different degrees of freedom for automatic control. It is a logic computer which monitors the control error signal and makes logical decisions on how much, if any, control action should be taken depending on the characteristics of the error signal. Control action may be reduced to any judiciously chosen minimum by adjusting the EACC to discriminate against certain classes of disturbance, e.g., statistical, deterministic, and periodic. Fast control action may still be taken for large and/or sustained disturbances. Certain compromises may be necessary when the EACC is used; in particular, the error signal may be slightly increased. However, the EACC tends to hold the integrated error within a specified value by the action of its integrating circuit. The EACC lends itself to execution by either a special-purpose analog device or a digital computer program. An analog version of the EACC has been constructed and tested both in the field and by simulation."
"The methods of adjustment and operation of the governors of hydraulic turbine generating units, in attempting to meet conflicting requirements, have occasionally developed over the past decade in directions different than would be suggested by the rapidly developing science of control. The most prominent factors contributing to the divergence have been the obscuring of proper speed control for individual units by interconnection into large systems, and the compromise of speed control characteristics for the superposition of t e-line controls. In the hydrodominated systems of the Northwest, frequency control has been understandably less efficient than in steam dominated systems."
"The Routh-Hurwitz criterion and the D-partition method are used in the steady-state stability study of a synchronous machine connected to an infinite bus bar. The machine has a continuously acting voltage regulator and a speed governor. The effects of the saliency and the short-circuit ratio of the synchronous machine, and that of the tie-line resistance and reactance on the stability of the system, are investigated."
"A 100-machine transient stability program has been developed which represents the effects of machines much more completely than has been available previously. Both d-and q-axis quantities are fully represented and saturation effects in both axes are incorporated. The speed-governing and voltage-regulating systems available are extensive and complete, thus allowing a very close approximation to any physical system. Facilities for nonlinear loads and induction motor transients are also included."
"The impedance matrix combined with the Norton equivalent and some loads as fixed impedances serve to reduce the number of buses that must be carried in high-speed computer memory. Noniterative techniques are used to gain speed and a Thevenin equivalent is used to check out-of-step conditions of individual machines. Representations of induction motors, generators (salient and nonsalient), govemors, and regulators are conventional."
"Earlier successful topological methods of determining the steady-state currents and voltages throughout any lumped-parameter electrical network are extended to include solution of the transient current and voltage response caused by switching in or out and, in any sequence, direct, alternating, or impulse-voltage sources in any branch of the network."
"The usual two-reaction theory of synchronous machines yields results that neglect to take saturation into account. Based on a method developed in a companion paper [1], the radial airgap induction is found in synchronous machines when supplying balanced loads. The armature currents are considered to be distributed uniformly in the upper and lower layer of the armature windings. The partial differential equations, the boundary conditions, and the method of solution are reviewed. Numerical results are obtained for a 2750 kVA, 2300 V, 60 c/s, three-phase alternator at seven different internal power-factor angles. Calculated results compare well with tests."
"The current unbalance in a 50O-kV double-circuit and a 138-kV triple-circuit, paralleled and untransposed transmission line is analyzed comprehensively. This paper establishes that the magnitudes of individual circuit current unbalances due to currents circulating between the paralleled circuits are more significant than the net through system unbalance. Since the former were not considered in previous investigations, the criteria established there for proper phase configurations is shown in this paper to lead to maximum circulating current unbalance. The influence of series capacitor line compensation is also shown and the ramifications of these unbalances are discussed and evaluated on a present worth of annual loss basis."
"The current unbalance in a 500-kV double-circuit and a 138-kV triple-circuit, paralleled and untransposed transmission line is analyzed comprehensively. This paper establishes that the magnitudes of individual circuit current unbalances resulting from currents circulating between the paralleled circuits are more significant than the net through system unbalance. Since the former were not considered in previous investigations, the criteria established there for proper phase configurations is shown in this paper to lead to maximum circulatimg current unbalance. The influence of series capacitor-line compensation is also shown and the ramifications of these unbalances are discussed and evaluated on a present worth of annual loss basis."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"Provides a listing of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"This paper presents a generalized mathematical model for simulating multiphase switching operations. The development of this model entails the extension of well-known cancellation techniques in such a manner as to obtain an automatic switching format that is compatible with an existing digital computer transient program. The validity of this model is demonstrated by the comparative results of previously conducted field tests and analog computer studies."
"Lightning arrester sparkover, caused by a switching surge, is considered. Under some circumstances large arrester currents flow and impose heavy duty upon the arrester characteristic elements and the series gap. Therefore, it is necessary to study previous relationships between the follow current and the circuit conditions and to test the current interruption ability of the arrester under various conditions."
"One method has been developed for estimating phase-to-phase clearances to withstand switching surge voltages and lightning surges in substations. Consideration has been given to the simultaneous occurrence of opposite polarity switching surges on adjacent phases, and propagating characteristics of lightning surges on the transmission lines."
"Results of an extensive switching surge test program on extra high voltage substation bus arrangements are presented. Emphasis was placed on obtaining wet positive switching surge data under careful control of laboratory and analytical procedures. Evaluations are made of the switching surge characteristics of the air gaps for a variety of EHV bus arrangements. Involved are the effects of the dispersion for large air gaps on switching surge withstand levels and ranges of absolute crest switching surge voltage values that are to be expected. The air gaps between the several arrangements tests and the EHV data from other sources are compared."
"Sparkover characteristics of rod-rod gaps and insulator string by switching surge are presented under the following conditions: 1) With simultaneous application of switching surge voltages to both electrodes of a rod-rod gap. 2) With application of a switching surge voltage of the upper electrode in synchronizing to the peak of 50-cycle voltage which is continuously applied to the lower rod. 3) With surfaces of post insulator stacks and suspension insulator strings covered with snow or ice. 4) With surfaces of suspension insulator strings contaminated by salt."
"India is today undergoing changes that call for long-term planning of her energy supplies. For this reason, the Energy Survey of India Committee was formed. The Committee has 0 presented to the Indian Government a comprehensive report that has dealt with the broad strategy for the development of energy resources and energy supply industries. This paper summarizes the findings of the Committee."
"T. Udo, author of the paper, \"Switching surge and impulse sparkover characteristics of large gap spacings and long insulator strings,\" which appeared on pp. 304-309 of the April 1965 issue of these Transactons, has requested that Fig. 6 be corrected as follows: The caption which reads \"not corrected for humidity conditions\" should instead be \"corrected for humidity conditions.\""
"The work reported directly builds upon the material in a previous paper by this author on the basic theory of electric networks [1]. It considers special open and closed paths that are often sufficient for the analysis of a problem. The special cases considered are those that follow from tree and cotree concepts. This paper applies the concepts of tree and cotree to the open-path and closed-path theory of electric networks. Several structures of electric network laws are generated and are enclosed in the paper. Applications of the theory will follow."
"THIS is presented as a progress report on the development of tests to determine the presence of damaging corona in oil-immersed power transformers."
"The progress made to date in corona testing transformers at the factory is reviewed and the importance of sonic detection and location of corona sources is shown. Major improvements in sonic techniques are reported. Test curves of RIV vs. transformer test voltage are given for units having defects. The various corona test proposals being considered by the industry are described and discussed. The best assurance of product quality is stated to be a corona test, using RIV and advanced sonic techniques, made at full transformer induced test voltage with a limit of 1000 microvolts."
"The damage resulting from overexcitation of generator step-up transformers could have an impact on generator reserve requirements unless suitable steps are taken by the industry. This paper discusses transformer design theory relating to overexcitation, utility operating practices, and overexcitation experiences; also, an estimate is made of the probability of overexcitation occurrence for units rated 150 MW and larger. Automatic corrective action is recommended, and a logic circuit is presented to accomplish this objective."
"The theory of loss-of-load probability mathematics has been generalized so that the effective load carrying capability of a new generating unit may be estimated using only graphical aids. A parameter m is introduced to characterize the loss-of-load probability as a function of reserve megawatts."
"In most present cable specifications, the selection of the proper insulation level to be used is based on whether or not the system is grounded. Since the detrimental effects to which the cable insulation is subject during ground faults depend upon both the maximum voltage impressed on the insulation and on the duration of the fault, it is felt that both factors should be considered in selecting the insulation level. With this in view, three basic insulation levels are proposed."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"Provides a listing of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"These papers describe electric circuit analogs for the 2-dimensional magnetic fields of synchronous machines. Although finite difference solutions of the differential equations are introduced to establish the mathematics, equivalent circuits are also deduced from elementary field and circuit theory familiar to electrical engineers. A simple resistive circuit is constructed to represent the static magnetic field with the ability to introduce any known currents and iron saturation. For the sinusoidally time-varying case, an RC analog is shown to represent the usual coupled circuit, and provides a most versatile tool for predicting eddy currents. Both the static and time-varying equivalent circuit should prove useful in the design of synchronous machines for the solution of magnetic problems for which numerical methods are necessary."
"PART I [1] of this series established a simple resistive analog to represent the static magnetic field. It was shown that by the use of a dc constant current network the magnetic vector potential solution of static field problems could be obtained including the correct boundary and internal field relations. Mention was made of the contribution of Roberts [2] in regard to the use of the RC analog to simulate a solution of Maxwell's equation for 2-dimensional time-varying fields. An extension of the analogy shows a revealing relationship of the RC network to the usual coupled circuit theory. It is the purpose of this paper to discuss the relationship and the application of the RC analog to the area of coupled circuit phenomena, relying primarily on circuit concepts familiar to electrical engineers."
"A theory of commutating machines is presented. Besides giving a new and interesting explanation to the commutation process from both field and geometric points of view, it enables the equations to be derived by a simple application of a differential operator to the coenergy function. This differential operator is the long sought-for extension of Lagrangian theory to the commutating machine. The theory is derived by application of Maxwell's equations to a physical model, and from a more theoretic point of view, by use of the Lie derivative. It is related to the diakoptic nonholonomic theory as well as to the more restricted transformation theory. An application to a simple machine model is given to illustrate its use."
"The synchronous machine can be represented by a simple and easily surveyed block diagram from which can be derived all possible transfer functions. Because of the introduction of complex representation of input and output quantities, this block diagram is valid for the positive as well as for the negative-sequence system of the stator. These transfer functions for the positive and negative sequence in the p-domain, and for positive sequence only in the t-domain, are shown in tables."
"In this paper, a method is provided for finding the magnetic fields in dc machines on-load and overloads. Mathematically, the problem is that of solving a quasi-Poissonian equation through use of a modified relaxation method. The differential equations are first replaced by difference equations; this constitutes a set of algebraic equations which are solved by a procedure consisting of relaxation and block relaxation of the potentials, and of underrelaxing the reluctivities. Currents and nonlinearities caused by the saturation of the iron are fully considered. A flow chart of a computer program is given, and the procedure is applied for finding the fields in a 500-hp, 4-pole dc motor at rated load, at twice rated load, and at six-times rated load with a high-speed computer. Flux plots in the region between the commutating pole and the armature show the spread of the main pole flux into the commutating region at overloads."
"This paper presents the conception of the sliding contact area as a velocity-dependent parameter and develops a method of assessing the variation of contact resistance with sliding velocity. Results of experimental work on sliding point contacts between carbon sliprings and carbon brushes are presented in the form of resistance-velocity characteristics. The percentage variation of contact area with peripheral velocity is computed from oscillograms of contact voltage. It is found that at high pressures the contact area is not affected by low sliding velocities, but starts falling off at high velocities while for low pressures there is a sharp decrease in area at low sliding velocities, but after the area has fallen to a small value it remains more or less constant as the velocity increases."
"To avoid instability of single-unit frequency convertors with distributed copper rotors described by the author [1], a variation of the machine is described here. The basic principle of power exchange between two windings of different pole numbers has been retained. In this machine the rotor iron is shaped to produce the necessary dissymmetry. This eliminates the discontinuity in the generated voltage near the synchronous speed of the primary field. Results from various experimental machines are discussed. Other interesting characteristics of the apparatus are presented."
"Oil-filled cables, pipe-type, and self-contained lend themselves easily to forced cooling by oil circulation, with return The éither by an auxiliary pipe or another identical feeder."
"Arizona Public Service Company placed into service two 147 OOO-kvar 345-kV series capacitor banks in July, 1964, on their Phoenix-Four Corners transmission system. This paper is a general presentation of the background, engineering studies, and design, including the preparation of specifications, design of equipment components, and testing of these facilities. It is not within the scope of this paper to discuss in detail individual phases of the engineering studies involved. The intent is that more papers shall be written amplifying these specific studies."
"The authors examine the problem of coordination between the open-gap insulation of a switch and its insulation-to-ground, with respect to switching surges. The results of a series of tests performed on an EHV switch with varied gap spacing and varied stack height are examined, and a method for designing the open gap of a switch is accordingly proposed. From the same point of view, \"anomalous\" flashovers are criticized. After having examined the results of a series of preliminary tests performed on rod-rod and rod-plane gaps with different clearances from grounded structures and vertical planes, a practical approach to the problem of eliminating anomalous flashovers is submitted. However, the need for better physical knowledge of the discharge mechanism for long-fronted impulse waves is emphasized."
"The operating practice and experience of electric utility companies varies widely in the matter of interrupting with air break switches, small magnitudes of magnetizing, charging, and loop currents. A questionnaire survey was made of 71 utility companies. Observations and graphic and tabulated summaries of their practices and experience are presented for the information and guidance of the industry."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"This paper is intended as an introduction to this issue which is devoted primarily to systems engineering methodology. As such, it explains the design of the issue, cites a few current events, points to the problems and opportunities of the field, and attempts to motivate further development of the field."
"One of the main lines of thought in General Systems is the transfer of system concepts from one field to another. There has been fruitful application of such theoretical concepts from engineering to other fields such as biology. In this paper, an attempt is made to apply concepts from biology to the practice of systems engineering. The relation of systems engineering to other fields is discussed, utilizing an intellectual framework based on the concepts of speciation and competition between species. The internal social structure of the profession and of individual organizations is considered, using the concept of competition within a species. Examples are drawn from biology to illustrate the points at issue."
"The American steel industry is constantly facing challenges presented by new competitive materials, rising foreign imports, increasing labor costs, and new more complex technology. Steel industry customers are demanding and receiving tighter tolerances on their steel strip, sheet, and plate products. Steel is an ancient industry, when compared to today's space industry. Simple, cheap solutions are pretty well exhausted. Plant processes are both extremely expensive and productive. While change has been a way of life for years in the steel industry, the opportunities for profitable change today are fantastic compared with five years ago, due mostly to the digital computers. The self-regulation and tighter control achievable with automatic feedback, in addition to the unifying concepts of systems engineering, provide a proved technical approach to the solution of today's steel plant manufacturing and production control problems. The logic and discipline of critical task network planning are being used to assure profitable on-schedule implementation of automation systems that fully utilize the potentialities of both the present day digital computers and the current engineering technology."
"Problem Formulation begins after a general, conceptual, intuitive, yet concise statement of the system project goals and boundary conditions has been made. The object of this step of a system study is to formalize the system concept, reduce its ambiguity, and derive a family of subprojects which can be subjected to engineering solutions. The major focus of interest during Problem Formulation is to reinterpret the goal oriented description of the system concept into a consideration of the practical obstacles to realization of the system concept. The obstacles include environmental and operational factors as well as random failures in the system itself. To achieve the reinterpretation, a study of the basic concepts of system and state suggest the methodological framework."
"The information theory developed by Shannon was designed to place a quantitative measure on the amount of information involved in any communication. The early developers stressed that the information measure was dependent only on the probabilistic structure of the communication process. For example, if losing all your assets in the stock market and having whale steak for supper have the same probability, then the information associated with the occurrence of either event is the same. Attempts to apply Shannon's information theory to problems beyond communications have, in the large, come to grief. The failure of these attempts could have been predicted because no theory that involves just the probabilities of outcomes without considering their consequences could possibly be adequate in describing the importance of uncertainty to a decision maker. It is necessary to be concerned not only with the probabilistic nature of the uncertainties that surround us, but also with the economic impact that these uncertainties will have on us. In this paper the theory of the value of information that arises from considering jointly the probabilistic and economic factors that affect decisions is discussed and illustrated. It is found that numerical values can be assigned to the elimination or reduction of any uncertainty. Furthermore, it is seen that the joint elimination of the uncertainty about a number of even independent factors in a problem can have a value that differs from the sum of the values of eliminating the uncertainty in each factor separately."
"This paper begins with a general discussion of engineering decision making, works its way into contemporary value theories and their potential usefulness in engineering, and goes on to comment on the aspects and prospects of a unified theory of value useful for engineering. It is concluded that the present prospects of a unified theory of value are rather dim if one demands broad flexibility, i.e., applicability and adaptability, over a wide range of decision situations. As an alternative to a unified theory the possibility of a useful metatheory, serving to guide the choice of a particular theory of value in each decision situation, is considered."
"General approaches to the design of hierarchical systems are indicated which are particularly relevant to problems of optimal control of discrete systems. A decomposition technique for interacting linear dynamic systems is shown to lead to an optimum 2-level technique having equivalent performance. Comments on computational algorithms for realizing this technique are included."
"The rapid adoption of the basic oxygen steelmaking process by American steelmakers has been accompanied by an increasing desire to improve control of the process. Digital computing equipment is the focal point of most efforts toward improving process control. Because of the notable lack of process feedback instrumentation, development of accurate mathematical process models is vital to the success of computing control applications. A dynamic mathematical model of the removal of carbon from the steel batch is developed, based on present knowledge of process rate limiting steps. The resulting nonlinear model contains several unknown constants; the pattern search optimization technique is employed to establish values of these constants from production data. The fitted model comprehends the variation in carbon removal of an actual oxygen steelmaking process."
"A Markov Control Chain is developed which allows optimization of the timing of control activities and, for sample-based systems, selection of the length of sampled history upon which to base the decision to exercise control. The optimization is performed by the methods of policy iteration or linear programming and achieves minimization of the cost per unit-time of 1) the cost of output quality, 2) the sampling cost, and 3) the cost of exercising control. The class of processes to be controlled are assumed to shift from higher to lower quality levels according to a discrete or a discretely approximated continuous probability law. The shift is irreversible unless outside influence, called corrective action, is exercised; it may be time dependent when the process is said to have an aging failure characteristic. The control system studied is a sampling plan which bases the decision of whether or not to take corrective action on a sampled history of fixed maximum duration. This plan yields an nth order Markov chain which is converted to a first-order chain by state definition. The transition probabilities are Bayesian estimates based on a geometric prior probability distribution and a multinomial sample probability distribution. The process and system taken together represent what has been called Dynamic Inference [1]."
"A unified approach is presented for the construction of sets of orthonormal exponential functions whose elements have the properties such that: 1) their asymptotic order may be chosen arbitrarily, and 2) their poles may be real, complex, or some real and others complex. The main results are summarized as theorems and propositions in which the sets of exponentials are derived as transfer functions in the s domain. These theorems and propositions supplement the more conventional Gram-Schmidt procedure which is useful for the orthonormalization of functions in the time domain. Examples are given which illustrate applications of the main results. In addition, a generalized spectrum analyzer, which can be synthesized on an analog computer, is developed for use in the automatic evaluation of Fourier coefficients."
"Adaptive pattern classification is the assignment of patterns to classes based on typical patterns or training samples, used by the system to determine the decision procedure. The system is adaptive in the sense that the decision procedure is optimized according to some criterion of the system's performance on the training samples. An adaptive pattern classification system is described that does not require a priori knowledge of the probability density of the pattern vectors for each class, as do the classical statistical techniques. Any decision rule, consisting of a discriminant function, that is a linear combination of arbitrary scalar functions of the pattern vector, may be chosen on the basis of a priori knowledge about the classes, engineering judgment, and economic considerations. The system optimizes itself by adjustment of the decision parameters according to a weighted mean-square-error performance criterion, using a multivariable search technique. The proposed performance criterion is well suited for self-optimizing search procedures. It also has the property that, as the number of training samples approaches infinity, the resulting disciminant function belongs to the class of discriminant functions, chosen at the outset, which approximates the optimum Baye's discriminant function with minimum variance. Some results from simulation studies are presented which include comparison with classical statistical techniques."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"The experimental portion of the Aerospace Corporation's program for the determination of RFI at orbital altitudes is described. The need for this effort is shown, and potential sources of RFI are outlined. The methods planned are described in detail, and actual hardware for use on the first experimental flight is discussed briefly. Hardware includes antennas, preselectors, and crystal video logarithmic receivers. It is expected that results of the first experiment will be available late in 1965."
"This paper discusses the results of a series of tests that were performed to determine the relative effectiveness of several circuit grounding methods and shield grounding methods in interference reduction between adjacent twisted shielded pairs contained within the same cable. The series of tests are described, and the data have been reduced to provide a matrix tabulation of figures of merit for the various combinations of victim circuit and source circuit shield grounding methods. The extent to which circuit grounding configurations affect victim circuit susceptibility is seen to be significant."
"In measuring the level of conducted interference on active signal lines, instruments are connected across the lines. This paper describes how the connection of certain measuring instruments across balanced circuits can produce both system errors and data errors. The error considered here is caused by the conversion of a common mode interference voltage to a differential voltage by the input network of the measuring device. Equations are developed to provide a mathematical description of the problem. Some techniques for reducing the effects of the interference are inferred from the equations. The behavior predicted by the analysis is compared with the results of a laboratory investigation."
"Bethe's small-hole coupling theory is applied to coaxial transmission line to design mode selective directional couplers. By independently sampling the TEM and TE11 modes in coaxial line, harmonic measurements can be performed which would require five or more directional couplers if made in rectangular waveguide. Mode selectivity on the order of 30 dB has been achieved."
"Some recent results concerning the suppression of isotropic unpolarized noise fields obtained by studying the spatiotemporal crosscorrelation functions of dipoles imbedded in the spatial noise field have motivated the investigation of the signal reception properties of dipole arrangements with such noise suppression characteristics. The signal reception problem is approached by considering antenna crosscorrelation which simultaneously includes the spatial properties (i.e., the effective height function) of the antenna along with the temporal processing properties of the crosscorrelation detection process following the antenna array. The analytical techniques used include the antenna height function, crosscorrelation, and coherency matrix representation. The results obtained for a general antenna height function are applied to the specific case of dipole antennas. A technique of polarization measurement for incident radiation is derived by examining the crosscorrelation function expressed in coherency matrix notation when the dipole antenna effective height function is used."
"Information is presented on a modeling technique and on data reduction techniques applicable to obtaining the spectrum signatures of low-gain, low-frequency airborne antennas. The modeling technique demonstrates the degree of simplicity permissible in the fabrication of aircraft scale models on which test antennas are mounted. It is shown that simple geometric shapes employed to represent an aerodynamically shaped aircraft will yield sufficiently accurate information for antenna signature evaluation, thus allowing far-field antenna characteristics to be obtained at a relatively low cost. A brief discussion of an analog-digital converter unit is also included. This unit is employed in the placing of antenna pattern data in a format that is applicable to the Electromagnetic Compatibility Analysis Center (ECAC) computer facilities."
"The problem of placing an antenna inside a metallic room in order to receive a signal originating outside the room is studied. The limitations of a theoretical analysis of the problem are noted. Some general conclusions are drawn from the experiments performed in a shielded enclosure."
"The MINUTEMAN ICBM weapon system is one of the largest and most complex weapons systems that have been subjected to the provisions of MIL-1-6051B and MIL-E-6051C, fielded as an operational system, and subsequently improved and retested. The purpose of this paper is to describe the initial method of testing the WS-133A MINUTEMAN weapon system at Vandenberg AFB to demonstrate compliance with MIL-1-6051B, to evaluate the test program and results in light of the experience gained when the system became operational, and to discuss the test concept and planning for the improved WS-133B MINUTEMAN weapon system MIL-E-6051C test scheduled for mid-1965."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Papers published in IEEE Transactions on Electromagnetic Compatibility  should be designed to serve the members of IEEE and G-EMC. This can best be done by 1) maintaining technical standards, 2) publishing tutorial articles of timely interest, and 3) publishing new developments in the various areas of interest to the Group."
"Lists the institutions that support this publication."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"The communication performance in the presence of man-made interference of a multiple terminal, diversity augmented, vehicular, radio relay communication system dispersed throughout a large geographical area has been studied by a computer modeling of the multinode system. The radio relay system operating at UHF in the presence of unintentionally generated man-made radio noise has been evaluated from the viewpoint of message propagation rate and completeness of coverage for varying relay point distributions. The communication performance for several distributions of mobile relays dispersed in a specified operational area of western Europe was examined under the influence of man-made UHF noise generated by 52 urban industrial centers in the region. The effectiveness of message repetition in overcoming the adverse effect of intense man-made noise was measured as a function of relay point density."
"One phase of the electromagnetic compatibility program is the determianation of the electromagnetic energy actually radiated into space by an antenna. Methods have long been established, or proposed, for measuring the power output of a transmitter, the antenna impedance, and the antenna-radiation pattern. However, very little definitive work has been published regarding the methods for computing the transmitter energy coupled to the antenna and radiated at harmonic and spurious frequencies. It is the purpose of this paper to reduce to a simple form the equations for determining the power absorbed by an antenna connected through a coaxial transmission line to a transmitter. Most discussions of transmission-line-power transfer assume the matched conditions so universally desired at the operating frequency. When harmonic and spurious frequencies are considered, both the transmitter and the antenna are likely to be poorly matched to the transmission line and to each other. This paper points out what measurements need to be made and gives the functional relations necessary to compute the power radiated under unmatched conditions. Since the actual power coupled to the antenna in a given instance may be critically dependent upon the exact length of transmission line, some means must be available to take this into account. The expressions derived give the maximum and minimum power that will be absorbed, and also give the probability that any specified intermediate power will be exceeded if a random choice of transmissionline length is used."
"A technique for the prediction of mixer spurious response rejection is developed. Calculation procedures and data requirements are discussed. The statistical evaluation of prediction error is presented for a large population of datum points."
"Frequency assignment should be based on minimization of the unwanted interactions between equipment in an environment. An approach to this problem is developed, based on the operations research technique known as dynamic programming. The basic tools required are an interference prediction model that is capable of providing relative values and a means of deciding which objective function is to be evaluated, i.e., which environmental interference measure is to be used. This concept is not presented as a procedure to be followed but as a logical framework to be modified as desired."
"A series of laboratory measurements were made by the Bell Aerosystems Company to measure the levels of interference conducted by and radiated from shielded and unshielded signal wires which carry pulses or step functions. These test data have been plotted into graphs which show the interference level in dB/1μ V/Mc/s vs. frequency for many common rise/fall times, amplitudes, pulse widths, and wire lengths. These graphs provide a rapid method for comparing the interference spectrum of a pulse or step function with the limits specified by MIL-1-6181D and MIL-1-11748B. The necessary amount of wire or case shielding can then be easily determined by observation of the applicable graph."
"A brief introduction outlines the development of receiver types considered for use as a field intensity meter. The design of a field intensity meter without a signal mixer or internal oscillator is evolved, and experimental data on a breadboard model are presented. Results include tangential sensitivities and dynamic range which rival those of field intensity meters that employ a signal mixer and internal oscillator."
"A technique is presented which can be utilized to establish a standardized procedure for performing conducted susceptibility testing on signal lines at the component and/or the subsystem level. Typical military specifications require that the test function be injected to the test lines via a susceptibility transformer, a coupling capacitor, or a standardized network, such as the line stabilization network (LSN). Although these methods may be adequate for testing of power line susceptibility, they present several disadvantages when utilized in signal lines, such as impedance loading, the requirement for physical insertion, and proximity to the load. These disadvantages become more pronounced at RF where the signal developed across the input of the test specimen may be considerably lower than the signal injected at the physical insertion point. A technique that overcomes these deficiencies utilizes a coupling jig that 1) does not require a physical connection, and 2) provides a known coupling across the input impedance of the package being tested-thus simulating, in a very realistic manner, interference coupling as it may occur in a system. A general expression for coupling prediction and a computer solution for various values of load impedances are presented."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Papers published in IEEE Transactions on Electromagnetic Compatibility  should be designed to serve the members of IEEE and G-EMC. This can best be done by 1) maintaining technical standards, 2) publishing tutorial articles of timely interest, and 3) publishing new developments in the various areas of interest to the Group."
"Lists the institutions that support this publication."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"An Interference Prediction Model (IPM) has been developed and programmed to facilitate RFI studies at satellite tracking stations. It can be used for RFI studies in general as well, because of the great flexibility of its input. Input descriptions include the receiver location, response characteristics, topographic data, and suscepibility parameters; also, emitter location, and spectral energy distribution and characteristics. Ordinarily, a mathematical formulation is used in IPM's to describe receiver response curves and emitter spectral energy distributions. By contrast, this IPM describes such functions to any desired degree of accuracy by linear approximations with execution time input data. This method provides both flexibility and ease of modification. Incorporated into the IPM is the capability of representing up to seven different malfunction threshold levels for different types of interference, arbitrary weighting functions for interference types, and arbitrary signal-noise ratios for adjusting malfunction levels, either singly or in groups. Three operating modes are available with this IPM: a mandatory single-emitter mode and optional multiple-emitter and intermodulation modes. Use of the single-emitter mode entails calculation of the interfering power at the receiver due to each emitter and the interference comparison. Use of the multiple-emitter mode entails summing the results of the single-emitter mode, by frequency segments, before comparison. The intermodulation mode performs calculation and comparison of the interference resulting from the \"beating\" of pairs of emitters."
"This paper expands the single sloping line labeled \"man-made noise\" in existing atmospheric radio noise predictions. Data taken from the Puget Sound (Seattle) area are developed to show spectral (0.1-10 MHz) and spatial (1-100 miles) man-made radio noise distributions. The effects of soil/saltwater conductivity contrasts and receiver elevation above ground are also considered. Methods of predicting noise contributions from both nearby cities and electric trunk lines are presented."
"Three techniques are presented for the suppression of conducted and radiated RF interference: dielectric and magnetic absorption, pseudoresonant or interfacial loss, and artificial skin effect. These three effects, alone or together, on a metallic conductor, provide a very effective suppression of the conducted as well as the radiated interference. This type of suppression has already seen considerable industrial use in Europe."
"Consideration is directed toward electromagnetic compatibility as viewed from the control aspect. Emphasis is placed upon an inter-system approach to the improvement of the over-all electromagnetic environment."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Papers published in IEEE Transactions on Electromagnetic Compatibility  should be designed to serve the members of IEEE and G-EMC. This can best be done by 1) maintaining technical standards, 2) publishing tutorial articles of timely interest, and 3) publishing new developments in the various areas of interest to the Group."
"Lists the institutions that support this publication."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"A frequent approach to computing the magnetic shielding effectiveness of enclosures is to consider the effect of a plane wave impinging on a sheet of infinite extent. This permits an analysis based on a transmissionline characterization. However, when the wavelength is large compared to the dimensions of the enclosure, other analytical approaches provide better results. It has been shown that the current distribution on a box-like object scattering in the Rayleigh region tends to concentrate at the edges and corners of the box. This leads to concentrations of the magnetic field in the vicinity of edges and corners both inside and outside the enclosure. Since the effects of the current concentrations are localized, the magnetic shielding problem can be simplified by assuming a uniform current distribution on the exterior of the enclosure. Under this assumption the socalled \"circuit approach\" can be applied. The box-like enclosure is characterized as a series of shorted turns which shield a sensor within the enclosure. Based on the geometry, the mutual and leakage impedances between the source and sensor are used to compute the magnetic shielding effectiveness. This approach yields valid results for shields constructed of either wire mesh or sheet metal. It can also be extended to account for degradation due to bad bonds. A comparison of results, both transient and steady state, of the circuit approach and scattering theory show close agreement for spherical enclosures."
"The premature reset of a flight programmer followed by the destruction of a multi-million dollar space vehicle could easily result from a single spurious transient. Because of these potentially catastrophic effects, methods of detecting and analyzing electrical transients have generated vivid interest within the aerospace industry. Even assuming that an effective transient monitor system was available, a basic problem still exists-the acquisition of sufficient paper/ pen recording channels to conduct an effective transient investigation. Since paper/pen recording devices are usually at a premium, especially during the integrated systems testing of a complex vehicle, transient investigations are usually compromised if not altogether deleted. To cope with the problem, the authors have developed a Wide-Band Multi-Channel Transient Monitor System. The system has the capability of storing transient information from many test points on a single channel of magnetic tape. Upon playback of the tape, the information can be displayed, in real time, with no loss of highfrequency information, and all the data are easily correlated with system test time."
"The theory of intermodulation responses in superheterodyne receivers is briefly reviewed. The frequency bands of the responses are determined and factors affecting susceptibility levels as well as quantitative values for a typical crystal mixer input superheterodyne receiver are presented. On the basis of this groundwork, it is shown that the receiver's primary and spurious responses may be conveniently presented in graphical form. The graphical presentation can include the effects of input band-pass filters and tunable preselectors, and provides a grid upon which an electromagnetic environment may be superimposed."
"Deployment by the enemy of a nuclear defense system subjects flight hardware to a new transient form characterized by high amplitude and short rise time. The parameters of the waveform can be derived from the anticipated enemy defense model and the deployment capabilities of the attacking system. These parameters can be shown as iso-E max contours with range and time significance. A method is presented for developing, in the laboratory, test signals which are significant in determining the response of attacking hardware to the anticipated defense environment. Various candidate circuits are discussed in steady-state, pulse-train, and single-pulse test environments. Design impedances are shown to be relatively unimportant as the ground plane becomes an effective part of the circuit. Currents developed simultaneously in circuits and shields are compared. Methods of extrapolation are presented with respect to amplitude, far-field effects, and duration of transient. Large-scale testing facilities are shown to have the same inherent limitations as small laboratory test setups. Both generate near-field environments and depend on the maintenance of an air testing medium. When a substantial volume of the air medium is replaced by the metal structure of the test specimen the environment becomes distorted, in a way not relatable to the distortion of the far-field environment by a vehicle in flight. Large-scale facilities have instrumentation and readout problems. Leads frequently pick up interference which wipes out the response of the intended sensitive pickup element."
"Equipment characteristics for compatibility analysis can be obtained from statistical reduction of spectrum signature data. However, practical measurement limitations such as dynamic range, receiver sensitivity, and signal generator power impose limitations on the resultant data. As a result of these limitations, certain transmitter outputs, receiver responses, or regions of an antenna pattern may be beyond the range of the measurement instrumentation. If such data are reduced without regard to the bias thus introduced, the statistical representations derived from the data samples will be in error. This paper discusses the significance of data samples obtained from a population that is \"truncated\" as a result of measurement limitations, and discusses the consequences of overlooking the fact that some of the data samples are missing."
"International telecommunications is an important instrument of international policy. Although traffic is increasing rapidly, technological changes are taking place which may relieve some of the congestion in the highfrequency part of the radio spectrum. As a long-term view, we should endeavor to husband the resource of the spectrum for those applications which can only be satisfied by the use of radiated electromagnetic energy."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Papers published in IEEE Transactions on Electromagnetic Compatibility  should be designed to serve the members of IEEE and G-EMC. This can best be done by 1) maintaining technical standards, 2) publishing tutorial articles of timely interest, and 3) publishing new developments in the various areas of interest to the Group."
"Lists the institutions that support this publication."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"Inverter, chopper, and other pulse applications, operating at repetition rates up to 25 000 pps (pulses per second), are very demanding for the silicon controlled rectifier because of the high rates of rise of anode current (di/dt) which are imposed. The di/dt rating of the SCR is important since high di/dt of anode current produces excessive heating in the device and, if this is not controlled, device destruction will result. This necessitates an SCR specifically designed for such applications and, also, a family of performance curves to enable the circuit designer to determine its capability reliably in his particular application. These performance curves consider the combined effect of the important SCR dynamic parameters, di/dt, dv/dt, and turn-off time. As a result, the high-frequency SCR is adaptable to many applications which previously imposed dynamic conditions too severe for SCRs to withstand because of excessive switching losses. The use of these curves is demonstrated through actual circuit application examples. The rating methods used for high-frequency SCRs are discussed and compared to methods normally used for conventional SCRs which do not include the effects of switching losses and high di/dt."
"The continuing expansion and modernization program in the cement industry has placed an increasing importance on the cement plant power distribution system. The use of fewer larger production units and the increased use of automatic controls has placed greater stress on the adequacy and reliability of the power system. Safety, capacity, reliability, and low maintenance, all at a reasonable cost, are the requirements of the plant power system. The Distribution Working Group of the IEEE Cement Industry Committee was formed in 1959 in order to establish recommended practices for the cement industry to realize these requirements. The first Working Group Report was presented as an IEEE Conference Paper in 1960 and, since then, has undergone annual revisions. The Report now includes recommendations on the plant substation, main plant power distribution, relaying, metering, cables, and quarry distribution."
"The dc traction motor, an integral part of a diesel electric locomotive operation, depends on the commutation of current for satisfactory operation. Increasing demands for power and speed from traction motors, together with environmental conditions associated with their operation, necessitated rigid parameters for improving manufacturing techniques and materials to provide successful commutators for this service."
"Worldwide, there is increased pressure for unifying the national standards of the various countries. Such unification is receiving every consideration through the ISO and IEC organizations. This paper deals with the history and current activities of the IEC, particularly in the work being done for the construction of equipment for use in hazardous areas."
"Semiconductor devices are sensitive to overvoltages and must be protected against such potential sources of damage. Typical devices used for this purpose are capacitors, selenium diode suppressors, and avalanche diodes. In many industrial applications, however, switching overvoltages contain so much energy that these devices are inadequate, not in terms of voltage limiting capability, but in terms of energy absorbing capability. Some high energy overvoltages are described and methods of calculating both their magnitude and energy content are presented. The difficulties of protecting semiconductor devices against these overvoltages are discussed, particularly for those cases where it is desirable to have the surge suppressor on the dc side of the installation for economic reasons or for protection against possible surges generated from the dc side. A surge suppressor developed specifically for high energy overvoltages is then described, and typical test results are presented."
"This paper deals with the proper overcurrent protection of grounded distribution systems of 600 volts or less with special reference to ground fault currents, that is, fault currents caused by insulation failure between a phase conductor and the conductor enclosure. A new language of communication is set up to distinguish the various grounding conductors in a system. The function of the neutral in clearing a fault is analyzed and the method of sizing it is outlined. Proper grounding of the system is shown to be intimately linked with proper overcurrent protection."
"Magnetic components, operating on the principle of magnetization of a core, in converters and inverters are discussed. The functions of the components in switching circuits and their inherent advantages for filtering, insulation, and isolation are shown. \"Soft\" commutation, for suppression of silicon controlled rectifier circuit switching losses, is explained."
"Process line control using direct digital control or computer technologies provide control systems with a high degree of reliability and accuracy. Digital tachometer generators play an important role in the implementation and success of these systems."
"The basic characteristics of transistor logic are considered. Beginning with the positive-negative-positive transistor symbol, amplification and switching action are explained, and application of the latter to logic circuits is discussed. Limitations of transistors, inherent characteristics, and heat capacities are described, and the accompanying engineering compromises and circuit performance degradation are explained."
"The potential of underground distribution in rural areas is examined in terms of the gain in safety and reliability as well as in appearance. The applicability of underground service to specific rural loads and to conditions resulting from right-of-way difficulties and exposure to severe weather is discussed. Ferroresonance, charging current, voltage control, and other problems connected with the operation of relatively long, lightly loaded primary cables are recognized. The prospects for future development of underground rural distribution are discussed in relation to the rapidly changing pattern of rural life in the United States."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"This page or pages intentionally left blank."
"This page or pages intentionally left blank."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"This paper describes the symbols and techniques used to construct and apply a line sequence diagram. A line sequence diagram, as the name implies, describes the sequence of operations for an electrical control circuit."
"This paper is presented as a tutorial informative survey on the subject of voltage control. Voltage control is discussed from several viewpoints: 1) control of direct voltage from an ac source, 2) control of alternating voltage from an ac source, 3) control of direct voltage from a dc source, and 4) control of alternating voltage from a dc source. Such various control modes as 1) phase control, 2) switching control, 3) pulse burst modulation control, and 4) chopper control are discussed. Many circuit possibilities are tabulated together with typical transfer characteristics and notes concerning optimum matching of application and circuit. Also discussed are such allied control subjects as 1) the function of free-wheeling diodes, 2) interphase transformers, 3) power factor effects, 4) capacitive and counter-EMF loads, 5) firing-pulse requirements, and 6) zero voltage switching. Comprehensive listings of circuits and control and application methods are included. These are sufficiently complete to suggest to those skilled in rectifier art other variations which may be useful in solving specific problems."
"This paper attempts to establish a philosophy for a systematic approach to repairs and redesign of large electric motors used by the petroleum industry in pipeline pumping duty. Motor performance requirements of pipeline systems are used as a basis for electric motor repairs and/or redesign. Electric motor failures are analyzed to establish whether failure was inherent in the original design or operational. Rebuilding techniques are indicated which attempt to overcome inherent failure by redesign and operational failure by the use of more adequate technology and workmanship. Rotor, stator, bearing, and enclosure problems are covered. Basic reasons for rerating motors are discussed. The need for absolute integrity in the repair of motors installed in hazardous locations is stressed."
"Originally developed for low-cost, high efficiency speed control of battery-operated motors, this SCR system has significant implications in the area of industrial control because of its precise regulation of speed."
"An analog computer simulation is often a useful tool in optimizing the parameters in a complex system such as a practical cycloconverter power system consisting of a three-phase generator, an isolation network, a cycloconverter, and an output filter. The key component in the system is the SCR employed in the cycloconverter."
"This paper is concerned with the application of the four basic temperature transducers used widely in industrial applications. Thermoelectric, resistance, total radiation, and filled systems are discussed, and their attributes and limitations are pointed out. Criteria for determining which transducer to use are discussed, and suggestions are made."
"Direct current analog tachometer generators are used extensively in industry to provide speed signals for use with instrumentation, and in feedback loops for closely regulating the speeds of drive systems. The accuracy of these tachometers is affected by changes in environmental conditions (such as temperature) to which they are exposed. By using proper design techniques along with the proper materials, these effects can be virtually eliminated."
"A discussion is given of the data found over a fourteen-year period of 240-and 480-volt ungrounded industrial distribution system operation at Kodak Park Works, Eastman Kodak Company. An advantage of the ungrounded system over the grounded system is the higher degree of reliability that is attainable. One drawback of the system is the problem of locating a ground when it occurs. Practical and successful tracing of grounds with power on are possible and, when combined with systematic detecting and clearing, the ungrounded system may offer further advantages over the grounded system."
"The order-of-magnitude reduction in effective inertia provided by the conductive-sleeve induction motor, coupled with advances in high-power solid-state devices, make all-electric servo systems feasible in certain applications in which the inertia of the squirrel cage or solid iron rotor would be prohibitive. Low inertia in the sleeve motor is obtained at the expense of real and reactive power requirements. This paper shows how the trade between these quantities is best made. Delay in control-field buildup in the usual servomotor control system may prevent full realization of the high performance of the sleeve motor. Constant-flux variable-frequency control of both phases is proposed as a method of eliminating this time delay."
"This paper discusses some transients in a modified Kramer-cascade, i.e., a cascade with the mechanical converter replaced by a diode rectifier bridge. First, a new method of starting the drive is described. It uses a single resistor in the armature circuit of the dc motor with the additional advantages of high starting torques at relatively low starting currents. Also, a rapid method for braking the drive is proposed with the braking effect being achieved by having both machines work as generators. Finally, since the drive may be used as part of a closed-loop system, its transfer function is calculated."
"Provides notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"This page or pages intentionally left blank."
"This page or pages intentionally left blank."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"The average insurance buyer has not learned that cost is determined from the overall experience of the property class which includes his own property. The individual plant can contribute to the determination of its own rate by compliance with underwriter requirements to reduce property losses. Properties with better than average loss experience can enjoy substantial premium reductions under plans afforded by the underwriter."
"Residential subdivision developers sharing the cost of underground residential distribution (URD) have enabled many electric utilities to provide this service to their customers. This paper describes how a small, fast-growing utility was able to financially justify and make URD available to its customers where financial assistance from the developer was not available."
"The purpose of this paper is to point out the economies possible in designing new school buildings. In order to further these points, two schools in the Kansas City area are used as examples. The paper also shows how a new tool-Computer Environmental Analysis-can help not only in economic analysis but in design. Other sometimes controversial items such as electric water heating, fresh air, electric service, and distribution are also mentioned."
"The user has 71 major systems for multiple machine control in 15 locations in Continental United States. The systems eliminate all relays in 42 can body and heat-seal tape-applying lines which do metal piercing and forming, heating, cooling, and transferring operations. Some of these systems have performed with no maintenance since February 1964. Twenty-five cutting, piercing, sealing, and assemblying presses are similarly equipped. Four can body-former and side-seam soldering machines now operate successfully without relays, and some electronic tube devices thereon have been eliminated."
"High-speed packaging equipment has introduced greater and greater complexity into the electrical controls for packaging machinery. One problem resulting from this is that of presenting the drawings of the controls to the Maintenance managers and electricians who must troubleshoot and maintain the machines. Another, less obvious, problem is the communication of the control requirements from machine designers to electrical control specialists. Two methods have been developed by Procter & Gamble to solve the problems, and are presented here."
"Maintenance of electrical equipment in oil well leases and in gasoline plants is discussed. Specifically, a method of determining optimum maintenance staffs is described. From an inventory of equipment on hand, the maintenance requirements of the system are calculated, and staffs are planned accordingly. The system is shown to be flexible, so that adjustments can be made in predicted maintenance. Operating experience is described, with quantitative figures on cost reductions and service improvements."
"To provide a higher degree of safety and service continuity, particularly in commercial buildings, it is recommended that the low-voltage electric system be broken into a larger number of smaller separate main switchboards, each fed by a separate service-entrance busway or with cables. Each service-entrance protective device would be mounted in a separate enclosure located on the input end of the service-entrance conductors and as close as practicable to the point where the service enters the building. Should an accidental arcing fault occur, such a design will prevent loss of power to any large area of the building."
"Control by computer has been the subject of much discussion in the pipeline industry. Such discussion has pertained largely to such subjects as automatic scheduling, automatic dispatching, and power optimization. These, of course, are difficult control problems, the solution of which depends upon employing a powerful device such as the digital computer. At the same time, many less complex control requirements have existed in the industry, for which the flexibility and accuracy of the digital computer would be desirable, but which until recently have not been considered as computer applications because the cost could not be justified as compared with more conventional equipment. Prices of computer control systems started at about $ 150 000 prior to 1964. A new generation of small units has been introduced since that time, and prices now start at about $ 50 000. This has significantly broadened the scope of potential computer applications; some of which are discussed."
"Two test circuits utilizing alternating current transmission lines for conduction of direct current between electrodes are described. The earth was used as the return path. Both circuits were from the Hoover Powerplant area, one southwest toward Baker and the other south toward Needles, Calif. Potential gradients near the proposed site of the Mead terminal of the Pacific Northwest-Pacific Southwest Intertie are discussed at length. Neutral currents in numerous transformer banks, both transient and steady state are reported. Oscillograms are included which show the effect of separation of dc electrode and ac ground mat. Some data are included from similar earlier tests and comparisons made as to ground resistivity, potential gradients, etc. Test currents were on the order of 400-500 amperes with occasional values in the 600 ampere range."
"The regional approach to economic development using small industries is being tested in Brazil. A fundamental limitation on the rate at which development can proceed is imposed by the lack of power. The feasibility of 1) a farmer's cooperative to produce wood fuel for irrigation use and 2) a compact nuclear power plant to provide power for a small industrial complex is examined."
"Pulsed current systems, including simple contactor/commutator and/or semiconductor arrangements, are used to modulate the natural characteristics of welding arcs to enhance their properties, especially at low currents."
"It is shown that, in the microwave power spectrum, the field penetration depth in a wet material increases rapidly with temperature. The selectivity of coupling to a wet material is analysed for softwoods. It is shown that the selectivity is both moisture and temperature dependent, the action being self-regulating, except at low moisture contents. The average bulk dielectric constant for softwoods below fibre saturation point is determined experimentally at one frequency (9.21 Gc/s) and compared with theory. Approximate empirical relations are given for dielectric behavior in the microwave power spectrum, 1 to 10 Gc/s."
"Provides notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"The paper illustrates the use of an analog computer to aid in the design of a feedback control system by building a working model on which performance measurements can be made. The model is made to duplicate more closely the physical control system by use of the computer in combination with actual production hardware. The particular system described is a digital speed regulated dc motor drive using a 3-phase full wave control silicon controlled rectifier armature supply."
"Since 1958, the architect-engineer design team has been challenged to provide higher lighting levels and to preserve the interrelationship between essential environmental factors."
"The study of electric shock hazards of fresh water swimming pools is based on six serious swimming accidents, of which, five were fatal; electrical tests using commercial pool lighting fixtures in five of the large university swimming pools at Berkeley, Calif.; and electric shock tests on dogs in a private pool."
"The advent of the silicon controlled rectifier has permitted the design of a practical cycloconverter source of 3-phase electrical power which can be continuously controlled in frequency, from dc to approximately one-half the input power frequency, as required to control the speed of a 3-phase induction motor. The correspondence between the applied stator frequency, the resulting magnetic flux phase rotation, and the mechanical rotor rotation in a 3-phase induction motor is analyzed as a function of slip. A closed-loop feedback system is described for controlling the slip between the rotor and rotating magnetic flux and for optimizing the slip frequency over the full reversible speed range of the motor. The stepless control of angular position, velocity and acceleration, and torque in both the driving and braking modes of operation is discussed."
"Solid-state motor and power control devices use fuses to protect the semiconductors against internal faults. Fuse application for special rectifier and inverter circuits require unusual fuse characteristics for which data is not generally available. The fuse characteristics are discussed and special types of fuse design are suggested for certain applications."
"The expansion of electric usage in all types of industrial facilities has caused an increased demand for high-voltage substations owned and located on the industrial property. This paper reviews the problems encountered in the design of these substations and provides a basis for the engineering work necessary to solve them. Specific sections deal with the 1-line diagram, protective relay systems, lightning protection, circuit breakers, transformers, systems, lightning protection, circuit breakers, transformers, switches, and bus design. An example of a typical station is provided and references are included for the details necessary to solve the problems in various special areas."
"The 6.5-kV HV dc brushless torpedo propulsion motor based on a Lundell-type solid rotor machine design has been chosen as an essential component of the electric torpedo propulsion system. Sea water is employed as a power return when dc power is transmitted by a single wire. The series-type brushless dc motor is controlled by the specially designed static commutator comprised of a bank of series connected thyristors. A photoelectric device is used for the readout of the rotor-stator relative position. This information is used to gate the thyristors in the static commutator. The review of operation involving natural commutation of thyristors and the analog computer simulation of this motor-commutator system is included in the text."
"Supervisory control techniques have come a long way from their humble beginnings at the turn of the century. The advent of solid-state circuitry made possible sophisticated, high-speed scanning systems capable of performing tasks never before thought practical through remote control and supervision. These new capabilities were quick to be realized. Applications of supervisory control, especially in the last few years, increased in size and complexity. Systems with planned expansion of more than one hundred remotes, almost unheard of five years ago, are becoming almost commonplace today."
"The development of controlled rectifiers during the last few years has led to their application in electrical drives. When a dc motor, for instance, is controlled by such a regulated power supply, discontinuous current may flow in the armature; this phenomeon is related to the firing angle and the rotor counter-EMF. Discontinuous current is also possible in circuits incorporating thyratrons, magnetic amplifiers, etc."
"This paper describes an improved method of calibrating a numerically controlled machine tool. The description entails an explanation of the position feedback transducer and the unique advantages attainable by virtue of calibrating the transducer and machine together. The calibration technique is shown to effect an improvement in the overall accuracy of the machine tool."
"In 1952 it became apparent that communications on Creole Petroleum Corporation's Lake Maracaibo oilfields were in-adequate, and engineering studies were initiated to determine the communications requirements in order to design a system which would satisfy existing requirements and be easily expandable to accommodate future growth. The studies were separated into two phases: telephone systems and radio systems."
"An electric appliance should adequately insulate the user from the energized circuit so that he is completely safe from hazards of electric shock. It is important for leakage currents from such appliances to be below the threshold of perception so that any sensation of shock, however mild, should be considered an indication of a defective appliance in need of servicing."
"Provides notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Presents the front cover of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Several circuits and devices are discussed which are used in European practice to control wound-rotor and squirrel-cage induction motors so as to reproduce the essential characteristics of dc motors. The application of thyristors is shown to make possible closely controlled, fast response operation of ac motors in single-and 4-quadrant service."
"The design and application of highly regulated dc power supplies present many subtle, diverse, and interesting problems. This paper discusses some of these problems (especially in connection with medium power units) but emphasis has been placed more on circuit economics rather than on ultimate performance. Sophisticated methods and problems encountered in connection with precision reference supplies are therefore excluded. The problems discussed include the subjects of temperature coefficient, short-term drift, thermal drift, transient response degeneration caused by remote sensing, and switching preregualtor-type units and some of their performance characteristics."
"The advent of continuous casting presents a new set of reheat problems which can more readily be accommodated by induction heating apparatus than by conventional gas fired furnaces. The technical reasons for using induction heating, typical installations now in operation, and proposed equipment for a large slab reheat facility are presented."
"Control systems for tandem cold mills have developed to a performance level that approaches the full capabilities of the controlled equipment. Control system limitations are now closely associated with drive and process problems and limitations. This paper discusses control regulating systems and logic circuits associated with this control."
"An equivalent circuit for a cycloconverter is developed which is valid for both ac and dc outputs. A relatively simple and straightforward derivation is presented which results in a new insight into the real reactive voltage drops in cycloconverter power circuits. Applications of this equivalent circuit in the analysis of power systems are discussed and possible extensions of the equivalent circuit are suggested."
"This paper investigates a number of possible illumination systems for warehouses and storage areas, and it establishes criteria for the selection of the proper system for any given warehouse."
"This paper is an application study of the basic warehouse lighting principles which were enunciated in \"Warehouse Lighting: I-An Analytic Study.\""
"The analysis of the differential saturable transformer is carried out together with a general discussion of its operation as this device may be applied as the basic component of large, controlled, high-efficiency power supplies. The advantages of this unit in combining the fundamental functions normally requiring separate elements and thus a greater total cost are explained and justified."
"Evaluation of the effects of a short-time irregular-shape current pulse on the conductors and devices through which such current pulses pass can be a perplexing problem to the industrial power system engineer, as well as to those working in other areas. The adverse effects may range from a nuisance mal-function in the overall circuit to a catastrophic explosive failure in power circuit equipment."
"The features of the computer program that has been developed to perform electric load data calculations are described. In addition, a fairly complete story on load calculations is given for educational purposes."
"A theoretical basis for closed-loop temperature control in electric space heating and cooling is presented, which covers all conditions likely to be encountered in practice. This is developed to provide facile techniques for analyzing and predicting the performance of these processes. This will largely reduce empirical techniques in thermostat design, will reduce the cost of developing new temperature controls, and should contribute to the wider application of electric space heating and cooling."
"In many semiconductor manufacturing processes, it is necessary that precautions be taken to prevent dissipation of static electrical charges within the devices being manufactured. Often, one of the major sources of static electrical charges are the people who are performing the manufacture of the semiconductor devices, and, therefore, if static charges are a problem, provision must be made for elimination of the charge on the personnel. In our studies, it has been found that in certain manufacturing areas it is quite easy to obtain a static charge of 1/2 mC, equivalent to 2500 volts, on a person. Several techniques for eliminating static charge build-up on people were investigated, such as the use of radioactive ion generators, humidity control, electrical grounding, and special clothing. Each area was investigated with respect to such parameters as present availability, hazards to personnel, hazards to product, etc. As a result of the studies, it was found that at present, considering all factors, the best method of preventing static electrical charge accumulation on people is the use of an electrical ground through a resistance."
"After four years of the most comprehensive study, planning, and organization ever undertaken in American urban development, the construction of the new city of Columbia has begun."
"Provides notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"As farms become larger, power suppliers are requested to serve the larger motors utilized in expanded farming operation."
"Results are presented of a 10-year study of unsafe electrical conditions involving flexible cords, attachment plugs, and receptacles which contributed to electrical injuries to California workmen."
"The ever-increasing trend towards higher footcandle levels has created problems of heat removal. Air handling luminaires are now the most popular way of removing this excess heat. Water-cooled luminaires provide a more efficient way of removing heat from the occupied space and offer advantages of versatility as compared with conventional, or air handling type, fixtures. Design criteria, problems of potential corrosion, and installation and maintenance procedure are discussed. Curves are provided to indicate performance of these fixtures and to show typical heating and cooling system comparisons between water-cooled and other types of systems. Water flow rates of 1/2 gallon per minute of 77°F water can effectively remove 70 percent of the heat generated in a water-cooled fixture."
"A new direct procedure has been found for determining practical equivalent circuits of static electromagnetic devices. The procedure is readily learned and immediately leads to an analogous circuit which can be built to study or replace the original device."
"A negative temperature-coefficient thermistor based on a tin oxide-titanium oxide solid solution has been developed. In pellet or bead form, the sintered device is stable at 1800°F. Typical room temperature resistance is above 150 megohms while resistance at 1800°F is less than 50 ohms. This strong response provides a solid-state ON/OFF sensor for switching systems in major appliances, industrial flame detection devices, and other sensing applications in high ambient temperatures. Specific considerations in the application of these devices are discussed."
"Some SCR voltage regulator circuits for 28-volt dc mobile power generating systems are described. With special generator-regulator combinations the problems of self-buildup and radio-frequency interference are solved. To avoid radio noise, synchronous switching is used. Self-buildup is achieved with extra generator windings, generating the excitation power at a higher voltage, and with a SCR cascade, reducing the power level for the firing circuit. For higher residual voltage a circuit without extra windings is given."
"The currents and load voltage of a 2-branch resistance-inductance parallel circuit controlled by an SCR pair in the supply line are deduced. While the SCRs are nonconducting, current decays exponentially around the load loop. The extinction angle is a transcendental function of the load impedances and (implicitly) the supply voltage. There is close agreement between measured and calculated results. The system cannot be analyzed in terms of a single-impedance equivalent load."
"The pressure contact semiconductor device features a subassembly consisting of a silicon pellet and two attached tungsten backup plates contained in a disk-shaped ceramic insulated housing, but not soldered down to either top or bottom contacts in the housing. The devices discussed in the paper are two SCRs rated at 230 amperes average, 1300 volts, and 110 amperes average, 1300 volts, and a rectifier diode rated at 400 amperes average, 1200 volts. Devices with other ratings and characteristics are planned for the same type of construction."
"A useful method is presented for quickly evaluating the thermal performance of busways or other conductors for applications at high values of overload current for short periods of time. In many cases, such as resistance welder applications, the ampere rating required for the busway is equal to the overload current times the square root of the duty cycle, but sometimes a larger busway is required. It is important to evaluate the thermal performance by a method based on the thermal time constant of the busway such as the method presented in this paper."
"The major problems encountered with conventional heat pump refrigerant cycles, how the new cycle works, and how it overcomes many of these problems are discussed. Operating limits of different types of systems are described and the reasons why these limits should not be exceeded are pointed out. Pressureanthalpy diagrams are explained, showing the difference between refrigerant cycles, and the problems with oil return from the evaporator are described. A performance comparison between different cycles is made and the wide application limits of the new cycle are illustrated."
"For hermetic air conditioning compressors, the use of inline internal motor protection makes it possible to directly protect the motor in its true operating environment. For this reason the use of the internal line-break motor protector in single-phase air conditioning compressors is becoming popular. Ambient air temperatures, voltage variations, and the strong influence of the surrounding refrigerant combine to set the duty requirements of the protector. Important factors in selecting, locating, and testing these protection devices for proper operational and reliability standards are described."
"It is essential to maintain the condensing temperature of air-cooled air conditioning systems at certain minimum levels when operating during cold weather. Recent advances in solid-state technology have opened up new approaches to controlling condensing temperatures at any desired minimum level. The solid-state control system described uses an SCR with a unijunction transistor firing circuit to control directly the power to the specially designed fan motors. In designing such a control system, consideration has to be given to matching properly the solid-state control, fan motor, and the temperature sensing device with the air conditioning unit performance characteristics to obtain the desired reliability and stability."
"Provides notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"This page or pages intentionally left blank."
"This index covers all technical items that appeared in this periodical during the year."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Conference proceedings front matter may contain various advertisements, welcome messages, committee or program information, and other miscellaneous conference information. This may in some cases also include the cover art, table of contents, copyright statements, title-page or half title-pages, blank pages, venue maps or other general information relating to the conference that was part of the original conference proceedings."
"The document that should appear here is not currently available."
"Conference proceedings front matter may contain various advertisements, welcome messages, committee or program information, and other miscellaneous conference information. This may in some cases also include the cover art, table of contents, copyright statements, title-page or half title-pages, blank pages, venue maps or other general information relating to the conference that was part of the original conference proceedings."
"Presents the introductory welcome message from the conference proceedings. May include the conference officers' congratulations to all involved with the conference event and publication of the proceedings record."
"Provides a listing of current committee members."
"Presents the table of contents for the proceedings."
"Presents the introductory welcome message from the conference proceedings. May include the conference officers' congratulations to all involved with the conference event and publication of the proceedings record."
"The basic concepts of dimensional analysis are used to make a general examination of reliability physics, mathematical models, and statistics. Beginning with reliability physics, an examination of Eyring's equation is made using Buckingham's Pi theorem. The Arrhenius equation is then seen to be an approximation to the Eyring equation. The use of dimensional analysis in constructing mathematical models based on empirical investigations is considered. The results suggest that, in every empirical study, the appropriate dimensionless variables should first be identified. These variables should then be used in experimental exploration and for subsequent mathematical modeling. The probability density functions of statistics may be associated with patterns of \"noise\". The exponential, Weibull, and normal distributions serve as examples. In this context, statistical methods are used for extracting signals from a pattern of noise and for judging the statistical significance of the signal-to-noise ratio. The pattern of noise is important in deriving an appropriate method of signal extraction. Examples of signal-to-noise ratios are given by the common tests of statistical significance. The u-test for the significance of the difference between an observed mean and its hypothesized value and the t-test of significance for the difference between two observed means are typical examples. The maximization of the signal-to-noise ratio can be used to obtain important classification methods. The loinear discriminant, used in some reliability screening applications, furnishes an example of such a maximization."
"Two forms of progressive degradation of a commercial silicon signal diode have been stuided as a function of various stress and measurement variables. One mode results from reverse bias at high temperature, and the second is caused by prolonged stressing with high forward current. For both modes the rate of degradation can be greatly increased by raising the ambient temperature; and therefore, accelerated testing is useful in both cases. The maximum acceleration is limited only by the onset of catastrophic failure mechanisms, which supersede the progressive mechanisms at sufficiently high stress levels. The reverse current characteristic is the principal degrading parameter for both modes. Models are presented to relate the stress-induced increases in IR to physical and chemical changes taking place in the diode. The reverse bias degradation mode may be readily explained by a model based on the drift of impurity ions in the silicon oxide and the resultant inversion of the epitaxial n layer. The actual source of the reverse current is space charge generation in the stress-induced inversion layer. There is a well-defined time constant for the degradation rate, and its temperature dependence is found both experimentally and theoretically to be of the Arrihenius type. The excess reverse current resulting from forward bias stressing may be attributed to a form of surface breakdown caused by a stress-induced accumulation layer on the n-type epitaxial material."
"The electrical response of semiconductor devices to light can be used to study various device phenomena and to identify the causes of anomalous device behavior. To implement such a study, a flying spot scanner has been constructed. This instrument deflects a light beam into a raster pattern and focuses it on the device under test. The light source is a helium-neon laser. Sinusoidal sweeps are used for simplicity. The electrical output from the device is amplified and intensity modulates the electron beam of a cathode-ray tube. By synchronizing the CRT beam deflection with the light spot on the sample, an image of the device electrical output is traced on the CRT. The resolution is about 5 μ (0.0002\"), referred to the surface under study. Interpretation of the image yields the desired device information. The system is constructed from equipment ordinarily available in an experimental laboratory. The scanner has been used principally for tests on photodevices, but results show that it should also be very useful for nondestructive testing of transistors and integrated circuits. Device phenomena, which have been identified and studied, include localized surface and junction breakdown, channeling, and uniformity of avalanche multiplication in silicon avalanche photodiodes. The information obtained has allowed us to prepare improved devices by relating these observations to device fabrication steps. Both discrete devices and their arrays on a single wafer have been analyzed."
"Much work has been done investigating the effect of light on various semiconductor characteristics. An improved method for obtaining photoresponse measurements on semiconductor junctions has been developed whereby the entire junction topography of a semiconductor device may be displayed. Some of the results obtained using this technique and its usefulness as a possible screening tool are presented. The method used to obtain topological photoresponse displays is a modification of flying spot scanner techniques. A raster of variable fields per second as well as lines per field is generated and projected on the sample through suitable optical reductions. The photovoltage generated by the sample is amplified, processed and then used to intensity modulate a display raster scanning in synchronism with the original raster. This technique can be implemented using common laboratory equipment. Using the technique just described, the photoresponse characteristics of various samples have been studied. It has been possible to obsrve areas of enhanced multiplication on reverse biased devices (e.g. - microplasma locations) as well as mask defect locations and inverted areas including channels. It is possible to locate both inversions which are originally present in devices and those created by reverse bias stressing. This technique has also been applied to integrated circuits and the results obtained are as expected from work on discrete devices. Analysis of this data is, however, somewhat more complex due to the number of junction areas present."
"One of the major causes of semiconductor failure is inversion. This condition is frequently caused by the build-up of trapped charges in the vicinity of the silicon/silicon dioxide interface after the devices are reverse-biased at elevated temperatures. Inversion poses a severe reliability exposure, resulting in both junction and transistor leakage. A phosphosilicate layer (P2O5) introduced into the silicon dioxide structure has been found to substantially reduce the silicon dioxide structure has been found to substantially reduce the failure incidence due to inversion. However, aluminum interconnections deposited upon the oxide passivation and, therefore, on the phosphosilicate layer have been found to react chemically with the oxide effectively reducing the phosphosilicate layer. This, in turn, increases the probability of failures by inversion. Reflection infrared spectroscopy has been found to be a practical non-destructive technique in determining phosphosilicate layer thickness on oxidized silicon wafers. Using this technique, experiments have shown that depletion of the phosphosilicate layer occurs because of interaction with aluminum under various times and temperatures. The experiments prove the practical aplicability of this infrared method in the quantitative determination of the depletion of the phosphosilicate layer. The experimental findings discussed in this paper show that the reflection technique can be effectively used in process development and in production control of transistors and diodes utilizing aluminum as interconnection."
"This paper discusses reliability screening techniques for integrated circuits which can be used in conjunction with a standard process normally producing material suitable for less stringent reliability applications. Devices can be selected by subjecting this material to additional conditioning and selective procedures at the following levels: I. Precapsulation Lot Acceptance for Metal Adherece and Bond Integrity II. 100% Die and Package Inspections III. Post Capsulation Conditioning and Screening The information obtained from accelerated stress tests, failure analysis, physics of failure studies and data analysis is used to demonstrate the effectiveness of new screening techniques. Factors relating to the cost of screening are discussed. Some of the failure mechanisms known to exist in integrated circuits did not occur during the stress program; those found resulted from stresses conducted above the normal device ratings. The screening techniques and procedures should therefore be incorporated into specifications after careful consideration is given to the techniques of fabrication, stress limitations, and application requirements of each device type."
"Conference proceedings front matter may contain various advertisements, welcome messages, committee or program information, and other miscellaneous conference information. This may in some cases also include the cover art, table of contents, copyright statements, title-page or half title-pages, blank pages, venue maps or other general information relating to the conference that was part of the original conference proceedings."
"Cr-SiO cerment thin films have been used to fabricate microminiature resistors which are compatible in size with monolithic circuits. Teh stability of these resistors under thermal and power stresses of up to 200°C ambient temperature and 80 mw/mil2 power density has been investigated. At 200°C and with 20 mw/mil2, dissipated on 1 mil x 5 mil resistors of 150 ohms, the resistance changes observed on stabilized Cr-SiO films were less than 0.2% after 1000 hours; however, the reliability of these resistors was found to depend on the contact metal. Degradation of the Cr-SiO/metal contact was observed with al terminals. The incidence and magnitude of this degradation are a function of storage temperature, dc load, and polarity, and can be related to the formation of a high-resistance region at the anodic al/Cr-SiO contact. This degradation does not occur when Cu or au films are used to terminate the resistors, and these devices can disspate 20 mw/mil2 at 200°C without resistance changes."
"An outline is given of an approach to the investigation of ageing mechanisms in thin film resistors. The programme includes the separation of most of the deterioration processes by using single crystal and polycrystalline chromium films deposited at ultra-high vacuum and the detailed study of the various gas-metal interaction stages during oxidation, which is considered to be one of the most important ageing mechanisms. The experimental procedures are described and results Presented from the first stage of the investigations giving the process kinetics and their impact on the electrical properties of chromium films. The results are consistent with Mott and Cabrera's theory for thin oxide films, where the growth is determined by a field dependent cation diffusion through the oxide and indicate any improvement of the resistor stability against oxidation to be dependent on the control of this diffusion process. *Supported in part under RADC Contract AF61(052)-923 through the European Office of Aerospace Research, OAR, United States Air Force."
"Vacuum evaporated thin-film transistors have been fabricated using cadmium sulfide (n-type), cadmium selenide (n-type), and tellurium (p-type) for the semiconductor material. These devices have been made using both the staggered and coplaner geometries previously described by P.K. Weimer. Life test data has been taken on devices fabricated using these semiconductor materials. Correlation is made between the observed instabilities. Correlation is made between the observed instabilities in each of these materials. At least two distinct instability which takes place in some number of minutes depending on the device under examination. The \"long term\" instability takes place in some number of hours, again depending on the device under examination. We have observed that thermal processing of a thinfilm transistor subsequent to fabrication can substantially change the instability observed. A unit that exhibited an upward drift in drain current can be altered to reverse this drift and show a downward drift in drain current. The effect of thermal rocessing on thin-film transistors fabricated with each of these materials is considered. A further observation made was that the instability is strongly dependent on the vacuum conditions under which the device is fabricated. Units fabricated in an ion pump system behave quite differently than units fabricated in an oil diffusion system. Instability is also a strong function of gate insulator material. Life test data taken on a substantial number of thinfilm transistors fabricated under various conditions are also presented."
"Oxidized silicon surfaces are used on virtually all of today's integrated circuits and silicon devices. These oxide layers encase the silicon surface in a protective sheath; they provide convenient insulating layers on which to deposit intraconnecting leads and bonding pads; and, perhaps most important, they terminate the silicon lattice in as ordered a fashion as has yet been found--interface state densities in the range of 1010 to 1011 cm-2 ev-1 or lower, commonly observed at the oxide-silicon interface, are by far the lowest surface state densities measured on any silicon surface. Surface related failures still exist, however, as has been noted at previous Physics of Failure Symposia. Device surface operation, whether it be any of the MOS family or simply a planar p-n junction, is predicated upon the action of the space charge region in the silicon that is adjacent to the oxide-silicon interface. The observed device properties are well described by simple models in which the surface conductance, capacitance, recombination velocity and other electrical properties are uniquely related to the surface potential. Extraneous charges in the oxidesilicon system that are not part of the silicon space chage region do exist, however, and constitute a source of degraded device performance, instability, and failure. Sources of extraneous charge include: 1. Ionic surface contamination (the Atalla model). anions and cations can inadvertently be left on the oxide surface during device manufacture or can be acquired at some time during operation."
"Failure of conventional Si planar devices by surface potential shift due to oxide impurities has been studied by combined MOS and radiochemical analysis. Radioactive NaBr contaminant was used to study both anion and cation distributions and kinetics. Experimental evidence is presented that Na in the oxide near the Si interface acts to accumulate electrons at the surface of n-type Si. Less well-known is the role of the anion in determining failure in this mode. At temperatures above 800°C, Br is found to diffuse into the oxide more slowly than Na and partly to neutralize Na+. Conventional hot-bias drift experiments at 200°C have been extended to include impurity distribution as a function of time within the oxide. The kinetics of Na flow in the oxide to and away from the Si interface compared to Si surface potential shifts suggest the presence of a rapidly-equilibrating negative species which can neutralize Na+ but not deplete an n-type Si surface."
"The mechanisms for anomalous increase of reverse current by reverse bias and temperature stress treatment on silicon p+-n planar junctions are analysed in detail. The effect of surface characteristics upon junction I-V curve is first surveyed generally by preparing the samples that have MOS type gate electrode in three types of configurations. Gate voltage to junction current curves are compared before and after the stress treatment and concluded that after the stress treatment, n-type inversion layers are formed on the very confined portions of the p-type diffused layer. It is also indicated that units having high resistivity n-type diffused layer. It is also indicated that units having high resistivity n-type substrate are easily deteriorated. From these facts, it is concluded that n-type inversion layers are formed only on the p-type surface where the acceptor densities decrease by the lateral diffusion under the oxide mask. As the mechanisms for anomalous increase of reverse current, the breakdown of field induced junctions by avalanching or tunneling is already proposed, however, in our case, tunneling mechanism is difficult to expect since n-type inversion layer is only formed on the lower acceptor portions of the diffused layers as stated above. This is experimentally verified from the large temperature coefficient of the reverse current and observation of no Esaki component in the forward current."
"Aspects of sodium contamination of metal-oxide-silicon (MOS) systems associated with silicon surface preparation, the oxidation plenum, and post-oxidation procedures, including contact application, are discussed. The validity of neutron activation analysis to determine sodium distributions in MOS samples is established. Refractory materials for furnace construction are examined and shown to contain as much as 1 - 5 percent sodium or potasium. Use of multiwall quartz furnace tubes as well as cold wall r-f heated systems is shown to give low sodium content oxides. Sodium levels as low as 4×1015 atoms/cc in the oxide, have been attained. Silicon crystals are shown to contain ⪞ 1014 atoms-Na/cc. A typical chemically polished silicon surface generally retains an oxide contaminated at ⪞ 1013 atoms-Na/cm2. This native oxide is sufficient to account for the shape of the sodium distribution, as well as the amount of sodium found in thermal oxides. Additional discussion is made of the impurity levels associated with contact application. The combination of oxidation and contact procedures is shown to yield MOS samples which suffer no change in C-V characteristics after stress at 300° C and 1 x 106 V/cm applied across the oxide."
"Reversible migration of contaminant or electrode metal ions in insulating films has been blamed for short to medium term instability in the electrical behavior of tunneling, surface-controlled, and planar devices. Ultimate failure of devices in many cases is attributed to the irreversible migration of ions. The present work is the irreversible migration of ions. The present work is concerned with the irreversible migration of electrode metal ions in silicon dioxide films. Primary emphasis has been on the development of techniques for obtaining concentration profiles of Ni and Au in thermally grown films of SiO2 before and after the induction of ion migration. Mass spectroscopy, employing a variant of the spinning electrode spark source, has been used to detect nickel migration. Radio-tracer counting, combined with oxide etch-back, has given specific, sensitive and quantitative results in the case of gold migration. For the nickel migration studies, mechanically polished silicon wafers were prepared with 3000 Å thick oxides. Thin nickel film (< 200 Å) were vacuum deposited and the oxides on the unpolished surfaces were removed. For sensitive mass spectroscopic analysis, large area samples are required. Pin-hole and localized breakdown effects during drift were avoided in the following way: A nickel coated sample was sandwiched against a clean oxidized specimen which served as an insulated field plate. Ion drift was induced by a field of 8 × 105 v/cm while the sandwich was held between heated electrode blocks for 4 hrs at 600°C."
"Recent investigations have shown the metal-oxide-silicon field effect transistor (MOSFET) to be quite sensitive to radiation-induced surface effects.(1) The object of the present work was to obtain further experimental evidence toward identification of mechanisms responsible for device degradation. In particular, the time dependence of effects following both pulsed and steady-state irradiation was studied, since information is thereby provided on the type and concentration of radiation-dependent charge trapping states which affect device conductivity. Both intermediate and semipermanent conductivity changes following exposure to ionizing radiation were studied for three types of MOSFET's. These included n-channel enhancement, p-channel enhancement, and thin-film n-channel depletion units. Intermediate effects (referring to those whose time constants are typically 50 to 500 milliseconds following a radiation pulse of the order of 1 microsecond pulse width) were studied by means of observing drain current changes as a function of successive irradiations at various bias points. Both drain current changes and changes in transconductance were observed in the study of semi-permanent effects resulting from each irradiation."
"The behavior and physics of failure of MIS devices under irradiation with energetic electrons was investigated. It was found that the bombardment usually results in the introduction of positive charge in the insulator. This effect is explained by a physical model which involves interaction of secondary electrons with the insulator lattice to generate electron-hole pairs and predominant trapping of holes in the insulator. The dependence of the radiation sensitivity on pre-bombardment surface state density, device parameters, and fabrication procedure, as well as the annealing behavior was studied."
"Because of the application of field-effect transistors, and integrated circuits in space electronic systems and the fact that proton irradiation data at energies typical of a space environment are not extensive, an experimental evaluation of these devices has been conducted. Thee important electrical parameters of these devices were measured before, during, and after irradiation at the Oak Ridge National Laboratory's 22-Mev Cyclotron. The results obtained from the MOS field-effect study show that their degradation processes include that of charge storage in the silicon dioxide insulating layer and radiation-induced changes in surface states. MOS transistors have been found to degrade at orders of magnitude less integrated proton flux than many bipolar and junction field-effect transistors; therefore, for space applications in radiation fields such as Van Allen Belts and solar particle events, these devices may be subject to serious radiation damage. The junction field-effect transistor desplays a large initial spread in device irradiation response. However, it appears to possess a high degree of resistance to proton irradiation. The integrated circuits tested were of the monolithic type and under proton irradiation displayed a large reduction of minority carrier lifetime in the base region of the circuit transistors. Other less important defects are reduction of free carrier concentration and reduction in mobility. Important electrical parameters that are affected by radiation are imput threshold voltages, output low level voltages, leakages currents, and transient characteristics. In conclusion, MOS field-effect transistors and integrated circuits display significant damage characteristics when subjected to a space proton environment."
"The amount and duration of temporary neutron damage were measured in a wide variety of types of transistors at the White Sands Pulsed Reactor. They all shoed a decrease in the large-signal common-emitter current gain lasting about one second. Half of the damage recovered in a time of 0.0002 to 0.05 sec, for different types, and the ratio of the peak damage (just after the burst) to the permanent damage varied from 1.5 to 3. The amount and duration of the effect were much smaller in samples operated at relatively high junction temperatures. A model is proposed to explain the effect on the basis of the kinetics of the trapping and recombination processes occuring, in a pnp transistor, for example, lattice + radiation ko ⇄ т K5 T T + n k1 ⇄ т K2 T- T- + p k3 ⇄ тK4 T where T- and T signify loaded and unloaded traps, and n and p electrons and holes, respectively. The recovery of the gain is not first order, so that the k3 reaction alone does not dominate the recovery. The k5 annealing reaction is observed well above room temperature. The main reactions involved in the recovery are the k2, k3 and k4 reactions. On the assumption of a first order reaction, the activation energy was found to be ~ 0.11 ev. Deviations from first order were attributed to a net second order reaction with a very small activation energy. The value ~ 0."
"A study was made to determine the effects of fast neutron radiation on linear microcircuits. Both overall effects and individual components were studied. Circuits tested were two operational amplifiers and two gold-doped comparators. The primary results of the tests were that one operational amplifier and the gold-doped comparators withstood up to 1014 nvt. The other operational amplifier withstood at least 3 × 1013 nvt. At these levels, gain was down about 50% on the comparators and input bias current was doubled. On the operational amplifiers, the input current showed a more severe degration than the gain because more feedback was used. Other circuit parameters showed little significant change up to the levels at which the gain was halved. By measuring common-base current-gain degradation at different current levels, it is shown that both base transport factor and emitter efficiency degrade with radiation. It has been determined that diffused resistors show little change up to 1015 nvt. Since current design utlizes resistor ratios instead of absolute values, the effect is further reduced. Avalanche breakdown voltages increased due to higher resistivities as expected. Other component changes were small. A particularly interesting aspects of the study was to determine the sensitivity to ratiation of a wide-base device, the so-called lateral PNP. Tests showed that the device was more sensitive to radiation thatn the NPN structures. Betas decreased by an order of magnitude at 3 × 10 nvt. A vertical PNP also showed heavy degradation."
"Conference proceedings front matter may contain various advertisements, welcome messages, committee or program information, and other miscellaneous conference information. This may in some cases also include the cover art, table of contents, copyright statements, title-page or half title-pages, blank pages, venue maps or other general information relating to the conference that was part of the original conference proceedings."
"Gallium arsenide diode lasers degrade when too high a current density is passed through them. The degradation consists of a decrease in output optical power, an increase in the laser thershold current, and a decrease in the current-rectification ratio. Degradation occurs in both diffused and solution-grown junctions, for lightly doped junctions. The degradation occurs under pulsed operation at room temperature and continuous operation at low temperatures. If the duty cycle under pulse room-temperature operation is increased at a constant peak current, a value is reached beyond which degration occurs. For continuous lasers, efficient diodes are more prone to degration than poor diodes. Spectral measurements indicate that junction heating is negligible. These results are reminescent of degradation in GaAs tunnel diodes, and the failure mechanism may be similar."
"Noticeable difference in pulsed second breakdown performance have appeared in high-frequency power transistors operated in the vicinity of BVCEO. Devices with thin, lightly doped epitaxial collector regions show second breakdown at much lower currents than many devices having the same base and emitter structure but thick epitaxial collector regions. However, some of the latter devices also have low second breakdown currents. The early second breakdown can be predicted in terms of the negative resistance seen at the collector terminal with the base open. This negative resistance leads to internal instability and current crowding. At high voltages, the collector negative resistance is electrical in nature and does not depend on heating effects with consequent time lags (although these will introduce a further negative resistance), so that the instability it introduces builds up very rapidly. It is caused by local reverse base current producing increased forward bias on the emitter junction as it flows through the sheet resistance of the base layer. Two effects modify the collector negative resistance, giving rise to considerable differences in second breakdown performance. One of these effects is the avalanche breakdown occurring at the edge of the shallow diffused planar collector-base junction. If this breakdown occurs at a lower voltage than that required to make M > 1/α, where M is the avalanche multiplication factor for the collector junction under the emitter, no negative resistance appears and the transistor shows a high second breakdown current."
"Pase work on surfaces has shown the probability that active dislocation centers are involved in the Si-SiO2 interface and that such dislocations have a deleterious effect on voltages breakdown and leakage. In our development work, we have studied the effect of thermal oxidation and its role in propagation of dislocations, and have observed that type of dislocation and propagated depth can be correlated with the oxide thickness. A series of oxide experiments were run with Czochralski (100) oriented n-type Si of 5 to 6 ohm-cm resistivity using 85 C O2 at 1120 C. All wafers were poslish etched to remove ~4 to 5 mils of Si, and, immediately prior to oxidation, were boiled in hot HNO3 for 5 minutes, rinsed in dionized water, and held under water until intorduced into the oxidation furance. Silicon dioxide was thermally grown between 100 A and 5200 A. After oxidation, the oxides were removed with HF and the wafers etched in Saylor's etch to observe dislocation enhancement due to oxide growth. Initial experiments were run with one half of each wafer oxidized and the other half held as a control for original dislocation background count. In all cases, original dislocation content was < 200/cm2. In another experiment, both sides of wafers were polish etched and the oxide-induced-dislocation enchancement evaluated against that observed where only one surface was polish etched."
"The correlation between low frequency noise and the uniformity of the current distribution in avalanche diodes is investigated. It is found that small diodes with a uniform current distribution obey the theoretically predicted relation u2/Δf=a2Vb2/I with a2 = 4.8·10-20 A/Hz. Larger diodes exhibit excess noise above the theoretically predicted minimum noise. The origin of this excess noise is traced to nonuniformities of the breakdown voltage across the avalanche junction. To characterize the uniformity of breakdown we have defined four quantities which can be determined readily from noise and impedance vs current characteristics. These four quantities are: (1) the number of noise peaks N; (2) the maximum noise figure F*AD; (3) the relative breakdown voltage spread ΔVb/Vb; and (4) the impedance ratior r. The correlation between these quantities and the uniformity of avalanche breakdown is demonstrated on a series of alloyed, planar, and guard ring diodes."
"A study has been made of the effect of impurity striations and bulk dislocation density on the avalanche breakdown characteristics of production run planar diodes. The diodes were prepared from both Czochralski and floating-zone grown silicon possessing large differences in impurity striation magnitude. The results of the detailed V-I measurements were analyzed by computer methods to obtain numerican data on leakage current, breakdown sharpness, and breakdown voltage. This data was then subjected to statistical analysis to determine the significance of the bulk material properties with respect to the breakdown characteristics of the diodes. The results show that impurity striations produce very large variations in leakage current in addition to variations in breakdown voltage. There was also some indication that a large bulk dislocation density, such as occurs in floating-zone silicon, results in premature breakdown of a small percentage of the diodes. *This work was supported in part by the Defence Research Board of Canada through its Directorate of Industrial Research."
"It is now known that the iron-nickel-cobalt alloy, commonly used for semiconductor device leads, is susceptible to stress corrosion cracking. Though this failure mechanism is a common afflication of many metal alloys, stress corrosion cracking of the iron-nickel-cobalt glass sealing alloys (Kovar, Rodar, Therlo, etc.) with 28-29% nickel was not reported until recently. The work reported here confirms that stress corrosion cracking of this alloy can occur very rapidly in the presence of a combination of condensed atmospheric moisture and stress, such as that resulting from normal device manufacture and/or conventional circuit installation procedures. Detection of this phenomenon by accelerated tests is relatively simple and has been the basis for evaluating and introducing corrective measures to surmount this failure mechanisms. Factors intensifying the alloy's susceptibility to stress corrosion when used as semiconductor encapsulation leads have been identified. The porosity of gold finishes conventionally applied to facilitate device assembly, and impairment of the finish's integrity by cracks induced in the surface of the basis lead material through flexure, provide potential corrosion sites. The latter phenomenon results from the lack of ductility of a work-damaged surface layer created during the encapsulation manufacture."
"A new mode of metal failures is described - electrical opens in Al strips on SiO2 - resulting from the passage of direct current at high current density. The lifetime of aluminum strips was found to depend not only on the magnitude of the applied current, but also on its direction. At lower current levels (longer lifetimes), a much longer lifetime was seen when alternating current was employed (60 cycles/sec) than for direct current. This effect, toether with the fact that aluminum films carrying direct currents have a blistered appearance suggests that an electrochemical or electromigration mechanism is involved in the disruption of the aluminum strips. While opens are very rarely seen at \"normal\" current densities of 105 a/cm2, the failure mode is accelerated at high current densities (106 a/cm2) and elevated temperatures (200°c). The distruption of the aluminum films does not originate from diffusion of the aluminum into silicon (emitted or base region) or addition, the gold ball bonds can act as sinks for the thin aluminum films surrounding them, and, hence, cause a certain enhancement of failures."
"A stable and reliable aluminum-gold system for inter-connections, contact pads, and bonded lead wires for silicon integrated circuits has been studied. The system is completely consistent with the fabrication technology, packaging, storage, and operational requirements of standard integrated circuits. It is based on an isolation of the aluminum interconnection metal from the gold contact metal by the bulk substrate material. The interconnections are vapor deposited aluminum, contact pads are gold vapor deposited on a chromium wetting agent, and the bonded lead wires are gold. The interconnections are separated from the contact pads by a barrier domain of bulk silicon substrate material which has been degenerately doped. The system is not subject to degradation due to the intermetallic formation which is common in conventional aluminum-gold systems. The electrical, mechanical, and metallurgical properties of this system are superior to those of the standard expanded contact configuration except for a 1.25 ohmincrease in resistance which arises from the diffused conduction tunnel."
"It has been shown that planar transistors with good electrical properties can be prepared with platinum contacts heat treated from 550° to 700°C. Anomalous results were traced by microstructural, x-ray diffraction, and electron beam microprobe analyses to incomplete silicon dioxide removal or silicon reoxidation in the contact areas prior to platinum metallization."
"This paper presents the results of an extensive micro bonding program designed to establish the reliability of techniques for providing interconnections within hybrid microcircuits. The program included in investigation of bonding equipment parameters, film thicknesses, materials, and evaluation techniques. One phase of this work consisted of the evaluation of fine wire microbonds (0.0007 inch, 0.001 inch, 0.002 inch, and 0.005 inch diameter gold and aluminum wire) to deposited gold-chromium or aluminum films on various substrates, including Vycor, as-fired and glazed alumina, sapphire, oxidized silicon, and beryllia. Both spilt-tip resistance welding and ultrasonic bonding techniques were employmented for the fabrication of these bonds. In addition, an evaluation program was conducted on the resistance welding of 0.002x 0.010 inch gold-plated nickel ribbon to nickel-gold-chromium films on as-fired and glazed alumina, sapphire, and beryllia substrates. A parallel gap resistance welder was used for this study. A third portion of the prgram was the evaluation of parallel-gap resistance welded interconnections of two types of flat-pack leads to three material combinations on multi-layer printed circuit boards. The lead types were gold-plated kovar and gold-plated nickel while the interconnection materials on the boards were gold-nickel-copper, gold-nickel while the interconnection materials on the boards were gold-nickel-copper, gold-nickel and gold-alnifer (laminate manufactured by Texas Instruments, Metals and Controls Division, Attleboro, Massachusetts)."
"Conference proceedings front matter may contain various advertisements, welcome messages, committee or program information, and other miscellaneous conference information. This may in some cases also include the cover art, table of contents, copyright statements, title-page or half title-pages, blank pages, venue maps or other general information relating to the conference that was part of the original conference proceedings."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"It is necessary to have precise control over the phase relation of the voltages on the unknown and the standards, in order to measure accurately, by bridge methods, the small component of an admittance composed of a small real part, and a large imaginary part, or vice versa. Under adverse conditions (i.e., when the argument of the admittance is within 1° of the axis), a phase error of only 0.1° can introduce an intolerable error. This problem is analyzed by standard methods, and after some reasonable assumptions are made, an explicit expression for the error is presented. Compensation is discussed, and a procedure for eliminating the largest part of the error is given. It is shown that the phase error of a simple phase inverting amplifier caused by a finite rise time is easy to compensate, while that due to delay is not so easy."
"A method is presented for measuring and plotting the EMFs of a bank of saturated standard cells relative to each other, without requiring calculations. A summation of the results serves as an indicator of the quality of the measurements. The method is applicable also for the maintenance and control of other standards."
"A new precision phase meter is described. The basic 20-c/s to 100-kc/s unit covers a 1-mV to 3-V range. This combines with a 1.5- to 45-Mc/s unit which operates between 300 μV and 30 mV without adjustment. Any reference phase may be set to zero with an internal 360° phase shifter. Phase may be read from an internal meter or from a calibrated divider, but for a digital voltmeter, or for sweep measurements, an X-Y recorder may be used. Absolute accuracy is 0.5°."
"The concept of stationarity, using time averages, as applied to electronic noise generators is outlined. Details of an experiment to determine the output stationarity of several commercial noise generators, by evaluating the time variation in their output mean-square values, are presented. Included are discussions of experimental error and inherent limitations in measuring a random signal."
"A relatively simple semiconductor circuit is described which will present an output plot of probability density p(v) vs. the variable v. Experimental data is presented and compared with theoretical expectations for variations of variables such as amplitude, frequency, waveshape, and \"sampling window width.\""
"The following paper describes a technique for measuring torques developed by various transducers. The technique was used to measure the instantaneous electromagnetic torque of a two-phase servomotor, and some test data are included. This measuring technique was developed for the purpose of obtaining test data to correlate with the analysis portion of the author's Ph.D. thesis on Phase Plane Solution for Systems Using Nonlinear Two-Phase Servomotor. The measuring technique performed satisfactorily in its prototype form and was further used to determine the characteristics of the 120-c/s alternating torque in relation to average torque for a 60-cycle two-phase servomotor. The principle of operation, test stand, arrangement circuitry, calibration procedure, test data, and a discussion of the performance of the instrument are presented."
"A comparison of the ideal integrator and low-pass filters has been made. Many experimenters use an integrator to filter out high-frequency noise from their data, whereas a properly designed low-pass filter will remove more noise and distort the signal less. Viewed as a low-pass filter, the integrator is superior to the RC filter but inferior to higher order filters. An integrating digital voltmeter (DVM) integrates and samples the input signal. If the signal has a varying component and is mixed with noise, it would be more accurate to use a low-pass filter followed by a sampler, than the integrating DVM."
"This paper describes a zero-crossing principle for detecting weak narrow-band signals immersed in Gaussian noise. The principle is simple to implement and leads to a zero-crossing detector, comparable in performance to a square-law detector. The zero-crossing principle has many of the properties associated with the incoherent phase principle of signal detection. Unlike the square-law detector, the zero-crossing detector is relatively insensitive to system gain fluctuations. Probability of false alarm and probability of error are presented for both the square-law detector and the zero-crossing detector. An application of the zero-crossing principle to the problem of incoherent detection of a stationary radar target in clutter is discussed."
"The phenomenon of photoconductivity has been used to control the transmission of microwave energy in a waveguide with a beam of light. Samples were made from a mixture of \"sensitized\" cadmium sulfide powder and polymerized methacrylate, one form of which is known by the trade name \"lucite.\" When these samples were centered as slabs in a waveguide, an illuminated attenuation of seven decibels was possible for a sample length of 0.9 inch and a width-to-waveguide-width ratio of 0.25 at 9.5 Gc/s. The insertion loss is low, less than one decibel. For very thin samples, a variational approximation is used to predict the insertion loss from the dielectric constant and conductivity of the sample. The response time for the cadmium sulfide sample appears to be about the same as that observed at low frequencies. This means of attenuation could serve as a useful means of instrumentation for decreasing microwave energy when variability is required, and when it is desired to have no mechanical or electrical coupling to the attenuation element."
"NBS II, the older of the two cesium atomic beam frequency standards which are used alternatively as the United States Frequency Standard, has been operating for more than five years. The contribution to inaccuracy produced by uncertainties in the C field has been reduced by a factor of 30 to ±2 × 10-13. The average precision of measurement (standard deviation of the mean) has been demonstrated to be 1 × 10-12 for averaging times of 1 hour and 2 × 10-13 for 12 hours. The overall accuracy is considered to be ±8 × 10-123σ. A new cesium standard, NBS III with an interaction length of 3.66 meters is in operation and has demonstrated an improved precision of 1 × 10-13 over 2 hours and an accuracy of ±5 × 10-123σ. The C field contributions to inaccuracy in this machine have been reduced to ±1 × 10-13. Considerable effort has been devoted to the detection and elimination of small frequency shifts produced by various electronic components of the excitation systems. In spite of the various improvements effected, a small unexplained difference in frequency of about 1 × 10-12 continues to exist between the standards. The extremely high stability of the difference frequency, however, suggests that resolution of the difficulties should result in an accuracy capability of perhaps ±1 × 10-123σ."
"The original NBS cesium standard (NBS I) has been converted to a thallium standard and was operated for one and one-half years with a typical precision of 2 × 10-12 and an accuracy of 1 × 10-11. Experiments are described which were performed to establish these precision and accuracy estimates. These results, which are comparable to those obtained with longer cesium standards, are considered sufficiently encouraging to justify the conversion of a longer cesium standard to thallium for a more thorough evaluation."
"The periodic absorption of heat on the surface of a material produces a periodically varying temperature distribution in the material near the surface as well as an increase of the average temperature. The periodic component of temperature is largest on the surface and falls off with distance from the surface. This fact brings about periodic internal stresses. These stresses under proper circumstances can excite a mechanical system to oscillation. The amplitude of this oscillation is found theoretically and experimentally to be directly proportional to the power absorbed on the material surface over a wide range of power. This phenomenon was employed to construct several linear power detectors for microwave application in the X-and K-bands. By using piezoelectric and electromagnetic transducers, a voltage linearly proportional to the power was obtained."
"The development and construction of a self-balancing current comparator is presented. In principle, the instrument incorporates in one unit a current transformer and a current comparator. The transfer of power from the source to the burden is achieved with the current transformer. The current comparator detects the error current of the transformer and controls a feedback amplifier which supplies the error current to the burden. At the terminals, the overall instrument is equivalent to a very accurate nonreciprocal current transformer. At power frequencies, its current ratio differs from the turns ratio by less than half a part per million. A number of ratios from 10 to 1 to 1000 to 1 is available. Applications of the instrument are discussed."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Prospective authors are requested to submit new, unpublished manuscripts for inclusion in the upcoming event described in this call for papers."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"A microwave simulator for controlled variation of air-flow velocity in the dc to 500 kHz frequency range is described. The simulator serves for measurement of the transfer function of hot-wire and hot-film transducers used in turbulence research. The microwave simulator consists of an X-band power modulated klystron which delivers electromagnetic energy to the transducer, mounted in a small-size calibration wind-tunnel supplying the transducer mean flow velocity (in the 0 to 80 m/s range). Experimental results are given for the absolute value of the transfer function in a 60 dB range, of a hot-wire tungsten transducer (5 micron diameter X 1 mm long) and of a platinum-plated quartz hot-film transducer (25 micron diameter × 0.5 mm long)."
"The paper describes an electronic instrument for measurement of the exceedance distributions of \"rises\" and \"positive maxima\" of random signals. The theory of operation and practical circuitry is discussed along with bandwidth limitations and applications."
"A Perkin-Elmer Model 112 infrared spectrometer has been modified for double-pass operation in the 400 to 173 cm-1 region. This region is scanned with two gratings, 40 lines/mm and 20 lines/mm, used in first or der at the Littrow mirror position. A 14° off-axis paraboloid mirror is employed, and filtering is accomplished with reststrahlen plates, scatter plates, and polyethylene transmission filters. No chopper modifications are required. Atmospheric water absorption is removed by circulation of the air in the optical path through drying columns. The pure-rotation spectrum of atmospheric water recorded throughout the converted range of the instrument is presented."
"This paper describes an improved infrared scanning microscope. It was designed for use as an analytical tool where temperature or small thermal gradients might be an indication of device failure or potential failure. This method would be particularly applicable, for instance, to dynamic testing of integrated circuits where conventional techniques are generally unsuitable. Initial tests indicate that the instrument is capable of 0.5°C temperature resolution and 1.5 mil spatial resolution. A prime design objective was to achieve a direct temperature readout."
"Design parameters appropriate to the construction of a monopole type mass spectrometer suitable for use as an ultra-high vacuum partial pressure analyzer are developed and elaborated. Performance results of an instrument built to these parameters are presented. Results indicate a usable mass range of 300 amu, with unit resolution over the whole range. Ultimate sensitivity is in the 10-14 Torr partial pressure range."
"A simple, accurate microwave test set has been devised for measuring coaxial or waveguide insertion loss. The instrument is designed primarily for highest precision with low attenuations. It is composed almost entirely of commercially available equipment and components, is portable, and can be operated in the laboratory or in the field from ac mains or batteries. The precision of the measurements depends on the connector type and value of the component measured. The precision is better than 0.0001 dB when measuring low insertion losses, discounting the error due to the connectors. Equipment nonlinearity reduces the precision in proportion to the measured attenuation in dB. The frequency range covered is 10 MHz to 40 GHz, which can be extended to 90 GHz with slight perfornance degradation."
"The solion tetrode is an electrochemical cell whose output current is proportional to the integral of the input current. The principle of operation is based on the controlled flow of ions, specifically iodine, through the electrolyte. If a current is introduced into the input of the solion, the unit continuously reads out electrically the integral of the input current. When the input current is removed, the readout still holds the new and final value for several days with extremely low drift. This paper describes the development of a solion tetrode with the maximum emphasis on reliability (questionable long-term stability had been a primary roadblock to the widespread use of solions), and presents long term aging data. The effect of materials and construction techniques on the operating parameters of this solion tetrode are also discussed."
"The quality of ferrite materials has improved markedly over the last few years. Inductor \"Q's\" of 500 to 700 at frequencies of 100 to 200 kilocycles appear quite frequently in filter designs. Techniques of measurement of the storage factor Q, however, have not kept pace. The residual phase angle in bridges and the series and parallel damping in Q meters cause considerable error. For this reason these instruments are usually used as comparators rather than absolute measuring instruments. The references in this comparison are usually inductors which are known to work well when assembled as filters. The method described in this paper avoids, to a large extent, detrimental influences of the measuring circuit on the test. For this reason Q values of 500 to 1000 can be measured with reasonable accuracy. The method is intended to be a reference for relative measurements."
"A magnetometer utilizing a superconducting quantum interference device (SQUID) as a magnetic flux sensor is described. Its unique capabilities include: sensitivity of about an order of magnitude better than that of heretofore published magnetometers of other types, measurement range extending to zero field, and appreciable frequency response at high sensitivity (12 c/s bandwidth at 10.7 μGs full scale). The SQUID is a null detector in a feedback circuit in which unknown field changes are measured in terms of bucking field changes. Some limitations and design considerations are discussed. A recording of micropulsations of the earth's magnetic field is shown."
"Calorimetry at NBS needs automation of bridge readout and bridge balancing. Bridge-balancing logic allows it to track the thermometer with progressively decreasing deviations as thermometer temperature approaches equilibrium. A step in the next decade does not interrupt since carry is automatic. Thermometer lead resistance is compensated as lead unbalance changes. Readout, at appropriate times, is into punched cards. With thermometer current only 0.002 ampere (to limit heating), the unbalance detector must function with only 0.02 microvolt available for the minimum step (10 microhms), in spite of much larger disturbing voltages, notably, thermal agitation, thermal EMF, and power frequency pickup."
"One of the limiting factors in measuring field intensity at the fringe area of an antenna is that the white noise level may be equal to or greater than the carrier signal. In addition, this noise level may vary with time of day, thereby rendering calibration for ambient-noise level an uncertain procedure. This paper describes a field-intensity measuring technique that overcomes this limitation. The silencing action of an FM receiver is used to accurately measure the magnitude of an RF signal regardless of the level of random noise present."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Prospective authors are requested to submit new, unpublished manuscripts for inclusion in the upcoming event described in this call for papers."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"The purpose of this paper is to survey the basic background of electric measurements, including definition of the base units, and description of the base standards from which most electromagnetic measurements are derived. The international center which deals with these matters is the Bureau International des Poids et Mesures (BIPM), with its Comité International des Poids et Mesures (CIPM) and its consultative committees, under the authority of the Conférence Générale des Poids et Mesures (CGPM) composed of representatives of the 40 nations participating in the Meter Convention, a treaty signed in 1875."
"A number of arrangements are possible for deriving signals in phase quadrature from interferometers, so that bi-directional counting of the interference fringe movements can be carried out. Arrangements which avoid splitting the image field are preferred for laser light sources, and can give a better signal-to-noise ratio. In environments where the interferometer is subjected to vibration, the fringe counting system may be required to handle rapid reversals in the direction of movement. In these circumstances the rate of production of rapid counting signals of alternate direction may be considerably reduced by using an appropriate logic system between the interferometer and the counter."
"This paper presents a technique for the measurement of small translations and rotations undergone by any general three-dimensional object. This technique applies to those cases in which different portions of the object suffer displacements and rotations which are independent of the other parts of the object. Such a situation might exist when a complex object is stressed. In essence, the technique is simply one of interfering the coherently illuminated object with a perfect three-dimensional image of itself. This image is formed by constructing a hologram of the object. The image from the reilluminated hologram is then made to exactly overlay the object. By observing the fringe structure, the translations and rotations which each section of the object has undergone may be determined. The analysis which provides the necessary equations relating fringe structure to the object translations and rotations is carried out in detail. In addition, experimental results which verify the analysis are included. Photographs show the complex nature of the fringe formation when a complicated object is subject to stress."
"There are several methods by which one may measure the energy output of the pulsed laser. However, the technique which seems to be most promising as far as accuracy and precision are concerned is the calorimetric method. We have designed, built, and calibrated calorimeters for measuring the output energy of the pulsed ruby laser (6943Å). The heart of the calorimeter is a small absorption cell containing an aqueous solution of CuSO4. The temperature of the absorption cell, as measured by a thermocouple, indicates the energy absorbed by the calorimeter. The calorimeter was calibrated in two different ways: 1) the known heat capacity of the absorption cell and the thermocouple sensitivity calibration gives a calorimeter calibration, which agrees within 0.3 percent of 2) an electrical energy substitution calibration which is obtained via a heater wire contained in the absorption cell solution. A method has been devised by which two calorimeters may be intercompared. Calorimeters which we have built and calibrated agree with each other to about 0.7 percent. This specific calorimeter has been designed to measure energies up to 30 J and will take peak powers of up to 200 MW/cm2."
"Intercomparisons of average frequency and of frequency stability were made among one Hewlett-Packard 5060A cesium beam, two Varian Associates H-10 atomic hydrogen masers, and the National Bureau of Standards NBS III cesium beam designated as the United States Frequency Standard. Each of the standards displayed a white noise frequency fluctuation behavior with a transition into an approximate flicker of frequency fluctuation behavior for longer time intervals. The rms fractional frequency fluctuation between adjacent samples, σ(τ, N = 2), was 6 × 10-11τ-1/2 down to a flicker level of about 3×10-13 for the hp 5060A cesium beam (102 ≤ τ ≤ 104s), 1 × 10-11τ-1/2 down to a flicker level of less than 1×10-13 for NBS III cesium beam (102 ≤ τ ≤ 104s), and 5×10-13τ-1/2 down to a flicker level of about 1×10-14 for the H-10 hydrogen masers (1 ≤ τ≤ 104s). The accuracy capabilities of NBS III and H-10 #4 are now 1.1×10-12 and 0.47×10-12, respectively (1σ estimate). A discrepancy of only 1.1 parts in 1012 was observed between the average frequencies of the hp 5060A cesium beam and the NBS III cesium beam, with the former being higher in frequency. In terms of the frequency of the Cs133 hyperfine transition (F=4, mF = 0)↔(F=3, mF = 0), defined as 9 192 631 770.0000 Hertz, the measured frequency of the H1 hyperfine transition (F=1, mF = 0) ↔-F = 0, mF = 0) was vH=1 420 405 751.7864±0.0017 Hertz."
"Joint experiments were carried out February 15 to 20, 1965, by the U. S. Naval Observatory at the NASA tracking station, Mojave, and the Radio Research Laboratories at Kashima, Japan, to synchronize clocks via the communications satellite Relay II. During one part of a pass the pulses from Mojave were retransmitted by Kashima, which also injected its own pulses. A fourtrace oscilloscope at Mojave showed the Mojave transmitted, the Mojave retransmitted, and the Kashima pulses, and also time markers. In the other part of the pass Mojave retransmitted the Kashima pulses and injected its own. This gave an independent value of the clock difference, V. The probable error of the difference in the mean values of V for the same pass, after correcting for relative drift of the clocks, is ±0.01 , μs. However, systematic effects may be present. It is estimated that the clocks were related to ±0.1 μus on each pass. Measurements were made as a check by use of portable cesium-beam atomic clocks and by use of the VLF transmission of NLK/NPG."
"An experiment is described in which the frequency offset between two remotely located frequency standards was determined through an exchange of timing information over a meteor burst radio propagation channel. Instantaneous timing offset, δ, between the two terminal \"clocks,\" each controlled by one of the frequency standards, was measured and plotted as a function of time. Since the slope of the curve could be equated to the frequency offset, Δf/f, determined by standard phase comparison techniques, a measure of the capability of the meteor burst propagation mode to support microsecond synchronization was obtained. A computer was used to fit a straight line to the data points and to calculate the slope and individual deviations of the data points from the fitted curve. Data obtained on five different mornings resulted in an rms deviation that ranged from 0.35 to 1.14 microsecond. The average value of the difference between the slope of the fitted curve and Δf/f, determined by phase comparison, was about two parts in 1010"
"The use of high precision portable clocks and radio signals is discussed in relation to synchronization of remotely located clocks. The demonstrated inherent phase stability, approximately ten μs rms, of very-low-frequency (VLF) propagation and its low attenuation rate with distance, have led to various approaches to exploit these virtues in timing applications. The system considered here employs two carrier frequencies with timing information contained in their difference frequency to permit identification of a specific cycle of one of the carrier frequencies. Such a system makes stringent demands on phase stabilities of the transmitted signals and of the receiving system as well as that of the propagation medium itself. The present system, whose development has been supported jointly by NBS and NASA, makes use of NBS radio station WWVL at Fort Collins, Colo. Receivers are of the standard VLF phase tracking servo type. A special signal generator is used in conjunction with the local clock to simulate the transmitted signal in order to relate the local time scale to that at the transmitter. One of the carrier frequencies is maintained at 20 kHz. With a second frequency (500 Hz removed from this frequency), carrier cycle identification was achieved on about 90 percent of the days for over a month on the path from Fort Collins, Colo., to Greenbelt, Md. Since January 4, 1966, the difference frequency has been 100 Hz, with somewhat more fluctuation in results. However, lower precision is required for the initial synchronization."
"An improved 5 MHz reference oscillator for use in time and frequency standards has been developed. This oscillator, using an improved crystal unit, reaches a long term drift rate of less than 1×10-11 per day in a few days. The design includes precautions for reduction of effects of conducted electrical noise on the output frequency. Modular design of functional circuits provides ease of manufacture and uniformity of the product. Stabilized temperature control circuits have been utilized to provide improved oven performance. The oscillator has been tested for the effects on frequency and phase stability of power supply variation, changes in thermal environment, modulation by electrical noise, and mechanical vibration. Phase noise within the range of 100 Hz through 5.0 kHz varies from -120 dB to -125 dB."
"The design and characterization of stable, low-noise crystal controlled VHF oscillators are described. Operating in the 60 MHz to 80 MHz frequency range, these oscillators have shown total rms frequency deviations of less than 4 parts per 1010 in a 5 kHz band. Noise characteristics have been determined from power spectra measurements, FM noise measurements, and phase noise measurements. The equivalent noise sideband power spectra corresponding to each method of measurement were calculated and compared to the spectra predicted by a very simple model of the oscillator circuit. Agreement within a few dB was found for the region within about 500 Hz of carrier frequency, but measured noise power was found to be considerably higher than predicted for higher baseband frequencies in the range from 800 Hz to 5 kHz. Measurement techniques and evaluation of data are presented."
"A ratio bridge has been built which compares four-terminal resistances by measuring the current ratio corresponding to voltage drop equality. A current ratio, corresponding to turns ratio, is automatically maintained by a self-balancing direct current comparator and is adjustable in part-per-million steps. The two current sources are isolated so that, at balance, there is no current in the potential circuit. The bridge can be direct reading in either resistance or conductance ratio. The bridge makes use of the ability of a self-balancing direct current comparator to measure and compare accurately the ratio of two isolated direct currents. A detailed description of the bridge is presented with an analysis of its accuracy limitations. In its optimum operating range accuracies of better than one part per million can be achieved. The bridge is particularly suited to the scaling of resistance standards from one hundred ohms to a fraction of a milliohm. It can be used at any ratio up to one thousand to one. It permits the calibration of low value shunts at full operating current with an accuracy limited only by their noise level and stability."
"The effect of power dissipation on the performance of four-terminal standard resistors has been investigated, using the direct-current-comparator ratio bridge. A theoretical analysis of a typical standard resistor has also been made, which indicates that the average temperature increase of the resistance wire in an oil-filled resistor is approximated by T - T = RI2[6(1-e0.001t)+1] and that the Peltier effect at the copper-manganin junctions may contribute errors of 1 to 10 parts per million of resistance for the lower-valued resistors. Recommendations are made for design and construction changes in standard resistors, which will improve the accuracy with which they may be used."
"The design and construction of an electrodynamic wattmeter for precise measurement in the range of direct current to 20 kHz is discussed. The method of operation, construction, and compensation for effects and errors is described. Calculations, test results, and several test methods are described and show that the instrument is capable of high accuracy and resolution in the power and audio frequency range."
"The ring-magnet current of the 12.5 BeV Zero Gradient Synchrotron (ZGS) and the current of a magnet test fixture at Argonne National Laboratory (ANL) are monitored with precision, four-terminal resistors (shunts) of coaxial design. These shunts, designed and fabricated at ANL, have a frequency range from dc to over 100 kHz, and can continually dissipate up to 24 kW. They have been certified by the National Bureau of Standards (NBS) with direct current to be within 0.01 percent of their measured value. Their resistance changes by about 3 ppm/°C over a range of 29 to 42°C. Unique features of the design are that thermally induced stresses in the manganin resistance element are minimized and that end effects are reduced by means of slotted current electrodes. Thermoelastic effects are often not considered sufficiently in the design and installation of precision shunts. It will be shown that the compressive stress due to a rise of 1.7°C will, in a rigidly mounted piece of manganin, change its resistance by 0.01 percent. Considering the temperature coefficient of resistance alone, a rise of 1.7°C would change the resistance value by only 0.0007 percent in the range of 47 + 10°C. It is recommended that manufacturers of resistance materials include resistance-stress coefficients in their general information."
"A magnetic potentiometer is described, the measuring error of which is in the order of 0.1 percent. The measuring winding is on polished straight ceramic rods, the joints of which are kept free from magnetic field by magnetic screening. Thus a measuring frame for heavy currents arises, the mutual inductance of which is independent of the primary circuit situation and of neighboring busbars. The exact measurement of the ac voltages induced can be made with the aid of measuring contacts or also with integrating electronic amplifiers, so that the rms value, fundamental oscillation, and harmonics and phase angle of heavy currents can be measured reliably. The practical error effects in these devices have been examined by the Physikalisch-Technische Bundesanstalt, Berlin."
"It has been possible to achieve five parts per million current stability for at least 10 minutes in a 10 kW power supply by using a four-core transductor as a current-sensing device. This fourcore transductor circuit eliminates excitation and magnetization ripple from the output terminals and has a transfer function which is flat up to several kilocycles. The transductor has wide range and is able to regulate current over more than a hundred-to-one range. The transductor assembly is simple, rugged, relatively inexpensive, and requires no special construction techniques."
"A direct-reading current-comparator bridge circuit, for scaling four-terminal impedances which do not deviate from nominal by more than a few thousand parts per million, is described. The scaling is performed at constant voltage and the impedances are treated as true four-terminal devices in that, at balance, no current is drawn from the potential terminals. The principal feature of the circuit is the use of a compensation winding to excite the magnetic shield of the current comparator and thus suppress the effect of lead unbalances. Possible applications of the bridge include the scaling of four-terminal resistance standards between 1 milliohm and 100 ohms at frequencies ranging from 50 Hz to 1600 Hz. Construction details and calibration of a current comparator for use in a 10-to-1 ratio bridge are given."
"The ac-dc differences of a reference group of thermoelements have been evaluated at audio frequencies to a few parts per million (ppm) at currents from 5 to 20 mA. A technique for comparing the ac-dc differences of two thermoelements with an uncertainty of about 2 ppm has been developed. Two 5 mA thermoelements are used with a plug-in set of resistors of computable reactances to form thermal voltage converters for voltage measurements. With this same technique adjacent ranges of these converters can be compared to step up from 0.5 to 500 V to better than 10 ppm."
"The high-frequency limitations inherent in systems dependent upon performance of amplifier-transformer combinations have often restricted ac calibration in the high audio range. Three recent advances in design of feedback amplifiers incorporating transformers make possible significant improvements in bandwidth, linearity, and computing accuracy in this range. The first method compensates for the leakage reactance-output capacitance resonance that frequently constitutes the basic bandwidth limitation in feedback amplifier systems which incorporate output transformers. The second approach introduces resonant stabilization, allowing more loop gain for distortion reduction at specific harmonics. The third technique employs two or more computing amplifier-ratio transformer combinations effectively in parallel. This configuration can yield worst-case computing errors inversely proportional roughly to loop gain raised to a power equal to the number of parallel combinations. Applications of the three techniques in a practical, all-solid-state 20 kHz ac calibration source are described. The output amplifier-transformer combination supplies an external load with 20 VA to 20 kHz and 1 kV, with distortion of 0.03 to 0.05 percent at the high-frequency end. At the same time, parallel sets of computing amplifier-ratio transformer combinations within the source furnish ratio transformer scaling accuracy in division. This, in turn, permits overall linearity which is typically ±0.01 percent to 5 kHz, ±0.02 percent to 20 kHz, over a ten-to-one output amplitude range, expressed in percent of local (rather than full-scale) output voltage."
"The analog-to-digital conversion technique which is used in the more accurate digital voltmeters available today is either potentiometric or integrating in nature. Both of these techniques are described in some detail, and their advantages and limitations are pointed out. A new technique is described which combines these two techniques so that the benefits of both are retained while the limitations of each are reduced or eliminated. The new technique, called potentiometric integrating, lends itself to high reading rates (7/sec) with 10 ppm resolution. A resolution of 1 ppm can be achieved with a reading rate of 1/second. Both cases retain the basic accuracy of 0.005 percent of reading and immunity to superimposed noise. This new technique has many applications in both systems and laboratory environments."
"This paper describes techniques for reducing errors encountered in measuring the amplitude of 100-300 kV pulses which are a few microseconds in length. The accuracy to which such measurements can be made depends, for the most part, on how precisely the behavior of the voltage dividing network is known. Problems due to stray reactances, temperature, voltage effects, dielectric and dimensional instabilities, losses, improper terminations, and external circuitry are dealt with, with particular emphasis on capacitive voltage dividers. Also described briefly are an ultrastable laboratory standard divider, calibration techniques, and measuring instrumentation."
"The Dielectric Specimen Bridge has been developed to measure polyethylene's dissipation factor of approximately 60× 10-6 to an accuracy of approximately 10-6 over the frequency range of 0.1 MHz to 10 MHz. The specimen holder is of the liquid displacement type employing silicone fluid. A specimen consists of two 0.050-inch thick sheets, 2.7 inches wide by 2.0 inches high. Low-impedance coaxial spring fingers provide a highly reproducible connection between the holder and the bridge. The bridge is of the unity ratio type with 100-picofarad ratio arms and adjustable capacitance and conductance standards. The conductance standard contains four decades, each consisting of a small fixed capacitor in series with a resistance decade. A specially developed phase-sensitive detector prevents capacitance changes of several parts per million from obscuring the observation of the desired conductance balance. This detector has continuous tuning and uses heterodyne techniques. The bridge is calibrated with an external conductance standard which consists of a capacitor in series with an interchangeable resistor, and has a geometry and element values such that the radio frequency conductance can be determined from low-frequency measurements. Since the liquid displacement method measures the difference between the dissipation factors of the polyethylene and the silicone fluid, the bridge is being used to make measurements of the dissipation factor of the fluid itself. In addition, measurements are being made of the dissipation factor of air."
"This paper describes a method for the measurement of impulse spectral intensity. An important application of the method is the calibration of impulse generators used for electromagnetic interference measurements and for field strength meter calibration. The measurement equation is derived from Fourier integral analysis of the impulse generator output pulse and the response of a measurement network to the pulse. The confusion surrounding the definition of impulse spectral intensity is reduced by studying the origins of some of the popular definitions. The quantity measured by this method is carefully defined. An impulse generator calibration system utilizing this method in the 150 kHz to 1 GHz range is described."
"The subject phase meter provides a direct, level-insensitive indication of the relative phase angle between two RF signals in the frequency range from 5 to 50 MHz. It has an inherent phase resolution capability of greater than 0.001°, although the present design is limited by stability, noise, and spurious responses to an accuracy of about ±0.01°. The instrument utilizes the well-known technique of measuring phase in terms of the time between the zero crossings of two sinusoidal signals, using an electronic counter for time-measuring and display. A considerable advance in angular resolution, accuracy, and operational ease over any known previous instrumentation has been achieved by a painstaking combination of such key factors as highly level-insensitive zero-crossing detectors, extremely linear RF/IF amplifiers and mixers, and multiperiod averaging of the numerical readout. Verification of the hundredth-degree accuracy for all phase angles, operating levels, and frequencies is a problem comparable in magnitude to the development of the meter itself. For cases where the signal level is essentially constant, a relatively simple verification procedure is described. Verification of meter insensitivity to signal level changes requires the availability of a phase-calibrated RF attenuator."
"Noise comparators and associated thermal standards have been developed to provide accurate noise source calibration facilities at S and X Bands. The comparators are based on a null-balance form of the Dicke radiometer, but eliminate problems of RF switching by using an IF switch. Matching facilities are incorporated. The thermal standards include both waveguide and coaxial forms and operate at 400°C. The most successful type is described in detail. Gas discharge noise sources have been developed as highly reproducible transfer standards, with outputs stable over many thousands of hours to within a few hundredths of a decibel."
"One of the important measurements required in the evaluation of a spacecraft communications system is the determination of the absolute level of the received CW power. A new, precise measurement method which compares CW signal power with microwave noise power is described. This technique, together with statistical methods of data reduction, results in significantly increased accuracy. The overall probable error of the measurement was reduced from 0.8 dB to 0.3 dB, defined at the receiver input for an antenna/receiving system of the Jet Propulsion Laboratory's Goldstone Deep Space Communication Complex. Application of these techniques to the Mariner IV spacecraft was begun on June 29, 1965, and continued after Mars encounter. The theory, equipment, and method of data acquisition and reduction are described. Results and accuracies are discussed. The Mariner IV spacecraft received power at Mars encounter normalized for 100 percent antenna efficiency was measured to be -154.2 dBm as compared to a theoretically predicated level of -153.1 dBm."
"A new technique has been developed for measuring attenuation at RF. Using this technique it is practical to measure accurately greater than 100 dB of RF attenuation in a single step. This technique uses noise injection and coherent detection as additions to an IF series substitution method of RF measurement. A technical description of this new technique is discussed in detail. The component specifications and performance data of an experimental measurement system are described. The measurement results using this system are shown to support the theory. The factors that limit the measurement accuracy of this new technique are discussed and compared with the limitations existing in techniques representing the present state-of-the-art."
"The concept of momentum associated with moving energy in an electromagnetic field is particularly valuable as a means of interpreting the mechanism by which mechanical forces arise from reflection, absorption, or a progressive change of stored energy in the field. Three new types of wattmeter are described: 1) absorbing the angular momentum of a rotating field at 10 MHz, 2) reversing angular momentum by means of a half-wave plate in a circularly polarized field at 10 000 MHz, and 3) employing a gradient of stored energy in a dielectric at 35 000 MHz. Details are given of each of these instruments, calling attention to their particular advantages and limitations."
"A coaxial calorimeter intended for use as a reference standard of radio-frequency power is described. It is designed to operate at power levels up to 100 mW and frequencies up to 6 GHz. The calorimeter is of the twin-load type; one load being the calorimetric body while the other provides a reference level of temperature. The input connector is a General Radio type 900 precision connector. The sensitivity of the calorimeter is about 50 μV/mW and this has been achieved by means of a multijunction thermopile. The uncertainty in the measured power level has been estimated to vary from ±0.20 percent at low frequencies to ±0.37 percent at 6 GHz."
"A system of coaxial RF power transfer standards (directional couplers with thermistor mounts on their side arms) and associated instrumentation has been developed for accurate transfer of calibration factors from primary standards laboratories to working power meters. The frequency range is 0.1 to 12.4 GHz and calibration can be transferred to terminating or feedthrough power meters. The system includes six RF power sources, five coaxial RF power transfer standards, a dc substitution power standard, and feedback circuits (including chopper and amplifier). The sources are stabilized by dc substitution feedback so that the RF power is either ½, 1, 5, or 10 milliwatts. Since no corrections are made for the impedances of the source and load, the maximum possible error in transferring a calibration depends upon the VSWR of the bolometer mount or feedthrough power meter to which the calibration is transferred. This error approaches 1 percent as the VSWR approaches 1.5. Calibrations can be transferred at fixed frequencies or using swept frequency methods. High precision swept frequency techniques for measuring insertion loss and input and equivalent output VSWR were developed in connection with this system. These are described and the results of system performance measurements are given."
"A comprehensive treatment of exact skin-effect corrections for precision air-dielectric coaxial-line standards is in this paper. The need for these corrections has resulted from recent developments in precision connectors that make the absolute nature of these standards accessible. An important aspect of this application is that it encompasses the large frequency range from Megahertz to Gigahertz frequencies. Corrections for reactance, susceptance, Q, capacitor, and inductor standards, which are important in the HF band, are given. Similarly, corrections for reflection coefficient, VSWR, immittance, and phase are given, which are of interest in the UHF and SHF bands."
"The techniques analyzed in this paper are based on precision-measuring systems that exhibit resolutions of 0.0001 in reflection coefficient and accuracies of 0.05 percent in characteristic impedance over the 100 MHz to 8.5 GHz frequency range. In order to consider safely reflection coefficients as high as 0.1, multiple reflections are not neglected in the analysis. Subjects considered include 1) the separation of measuring-system residual reflections utilizing air-line standards of specified, arbitrary, and variable length, 2) the limits of accuracy resulting from imperfect air-line standards and multiple reflections, 3) the importance of connector repeatability, and 4) the advantages realized through the use of highly stable impedance-matching tuners."
"Amid the concern surrounding the design and application of precision coaxial connectors for use in precise electrical measurements there is one area which has received very little attention. This has to do with the application of such connectors to measurements in the lumped parameter region. This paper points out significant sources of error in lumped parameter measurements which are attributable to connector uncertainties and shows how they can be greatly reduced through the application of precision coaxial connectors. Where these connectors are utilized in lunped parameter immittance measurements, extensions of frequency, magnitude, and accuracy are realized. Specific examples are discussed."
"An absorption Stark voltmeter, using a Fabry-Perot absorption cell with a rotational transition of CH3CN at 36 GHz, has been built and evaluated. The rotational constant and dipole moment of this molecule have been redetermined and found to have the values 9198.56±0.10 GHz and 3.9185±0.0020 Debye, respectively. The short term precision of the device when used as a standard cell was better than that of the equipment which was used to test it, and was probably better than one part in 105, but there were unexplained drifts of 2 parts in 104 per day. The accuracy of the device, as a means of measuring voltage in terms of atomic and molecular constants, is 5 parts in 104. The principal errors are due to the measurement of the plate spacing (which could be reduced by using an optical interferometer to measure spacing), pulling the interferometer resonance by the external circuit, and the effects of field non-uniformities due to the coupling holes."
"The construction and calibration of a confocal wavemeter for the 94 GHz region is described. Material selection was predicated upon obtaining a frequency stability of 1 part in 105 per °C over a 34°C temperature range. The system uses a 94 GHz signal generated from a crystal reference and phase-lock loop to calibrate the wavemeter. Several readout techniques are discussed. 1) the conventional dip indication, 2) the pip obtained from the resonator used in the transmission mode, and 3) the measurement of the pip phase. The latter technique permits the resolution of 100 KHz at a center frequency of 100 GHz or 1 part in 106."
"The nonresonant shorted waveguide, NRS, method for measuring the ferromagnetic resonance line width, ΔH, is discussed. The major aim of the paper is to test the usual resonator formula for getting unloaded Q from loaded QL, written here as ΔH = ΔHL/ l+ß). Using this formula, the value of ΔH is very nearly constant over a wide range of values of ΔHL and ß. These quantities were varied on a given sphere by changing the angle ϕ between the RF and dc fields. We believe that this is the first time, with one sample and with no change of either surface finish or axis of magnetization, that ΔH has been shown to be independent of coupling- a necessary requirement for the method to be accurate. We conclude that the NRS method should be both practical and accurate over a wide range of ΔH."
"This paper is a summary of an informal panel discussion which formed one session of the 1966 Conference on Precision Electromagnetic Measurements. In contrast to the other sessions, this one was concerned primarily with broad management problems rather than with detailed technical matters. The members of the panel, from nine different countries, had each been asked to consider the measurement system of his country, its national standards laboratory (or its equivalent), and the scientific and technical program of the laboratory. Although time limitations prevented a thorough discussion, many worthwhile facts and opinions emerged."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"The following author listings include title of paper, page number, and month."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Prospective authors are requested to submit new, unpublished manuscripts for inclusion in the upcoming event described in this call for papers."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Provides notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Provides notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Performance of a transistorized horizontal output deflection circuit has been described. Different methods of controlling linearity as well as methods to provide transistor arc protection have been investigated and described with some of their advantages and disadvantages. A brief description of a horizontal output deflection coil has been given. Also, a general horizontal output transformer design, and some calculations based on core material, cross section shape, and coil losses, have been discussed. In short, a high performance, line operated, all transistor, horizontal output stage for a color system at 1.2 ma. and 23kv, with 140 volts B-supply, has been achieved with existing devices and yielded a performance, if not better, at least equal to the one accomplished with tubes, at a competitive cost. Life test data has not been completed, but it is believed that proper design will result in high reliability even though transistors are more susceptible to accidental failure and corona arcing than tubes."
"A method of color error correction for the Sulphide green and blue phosphors is developed. The method is general in nature and may be used to develop a correction matrix for phosphors with arbitrary color coordinates. A linear matrix is used to obtain an exact coordinate transformation and exact color reproduction within the capabilities of the new phosphors. A non-linear matrix, which gives approximate correction, can be simulated by adjusting the demodulating gains and angles of the color decoder."
"This paper outlines the problems that arise in the television receiver as a result of impulse noise, and describes briefly some methods that have been used to mitigate its effects. A simple and inexpensive method of gating out noise is described in detail."
"A general trend for the use of silicon controlled rectifiers (SCR) in television line-scanning generators leads, in principle, to new circuit configurations /1/, in which the deflection coils are driven during the retrace via a switching element. Instead of the SCR, transistors may be used as well, In the present paper, optimum working conditions of this circuit diagram are determined and equations derived enabling a simple engineering design of this generator. The wiring diagram mentioned in the paper has a high-voltage circuit part designed in an unique way."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"This review of the problems of color television broadcasting origination indicates that in the near future, using the tools which have been developed for accurate and well-behaved operating routines, the fidelity of color broadcasting can be controlled so as to meet the original starting point requirements of believability and pleasing reproduction of the original scene. Such control will certainly have to include the various program sources such as live pickup, both studio and outdoor, and 16mm and 35mm color film. Another requirement which is repeatedly being fulfilled is consistency in network operations both from the standpoint of pleasing pictures and switching stability so that a color program can be assembled from remote points with complete consistency of face tones and without the need of readjusting the color receiver. The same requirement holds for the need to be able to switch from any one station to any other station carrying color programs in a given area, without being required to make any adjustments in either hue or picture saturation at the receiver. Earlier balance problems which were extremely difficult are now solved on a casual day-to-day basis. The longer range hope is that with automatic controls and improved stability and self-compensating circuits in broadcasting camera equipment, it should be possible to produce completely consistent results automatically, with more time left for increased emphasis on more artistic productions."
"The proposed VisTa satellite and transmitter design is based on a modest extension of present-day technology in order that an operational system could be realized by 1970. The transponder configuration is similar in concept and design to those traditionally used in standard broadcast transmitters. Consequently, the performance in terms of bandwidth, linearity, and distortion will be similar to terrestrial equipment for monochrome and color transmission. Although the transmitter power is limited by the capability of the Titan III-3 launch vehicle, the minimum SNR at the prescribed home receiver will be 33 dB for a monochrome signal and 1 or 2 dB less for a color signal."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Provides notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"The spark gap Capacitor is a low cost overvoltage protective device which finds broad application in Color T.V. receivers and other electronic equipment. The discussion which follows covers the theoretical basis of an atmospheric spark gap, the performance characteristics of a practical unit, and some typical applications."
"The electronic industry is faced with the problems of increased material and labor costs, production capacity and adequate skilled labor. These problems can all be solved to a great extent by utilizing a technique called \"process oriented design.\" Some of the by products of this technique result in lower workmanship defects and less scrap loss, which reflects into the ability to produce a product of higher quality and better reliability for a lower cost."
"Cross modulation rejection vs bias variations in semiconductors is not a smooth function as it is with vacuum tubes. The reason for these large variations with bias point change has never been adequately explained. It is the purpose of this paper to introduce into the cross modulation analysis a component not previously considered as having an active part. This component is the detected audio component of the undesired signal. It will be shown how this audio component both increases and decreases the cross modulation rejection over normal bias ranges. Furthermore, it will also be shown that there exist very high cross modulation rejection points and that these points can be predicted from standard RF parameters. Through the use of audio circuit techniques these high rejection points can be made to move so that under severe cross modulation conditions a high rejection situation can be created."
"This paper describes some of the pertinent design factors in using Field Effect Transistors (FETs) in audio amplifiers. Emphasis is placed upon practical circuits utilizing FETs with practical parameter specifications. Design factors are included for bias design, signal handling ability, thermal stability, and factors involved for low noise design."
"To evaluate the significance of integrated circuits in television receivers, the 4.5-MHz intercarrier sound channel was integrated on amonolithic silicon chip. Use of this chip in production monochrome and color television receivers has resulted in improved performance, greater reliability, and potentially lower cost. From the experience gained in this project, it is estimated that some 20% of the chassis component cost of a television receiver is susceptible to economically-sound use of integrated circuits. It appears that the television circuit-design engineer is best equipped to take the initiative in the design of integrated circuits because of the complexity of the integrated circuit-receiver interface. Considerations in the specification and testing of integrated circuits are described."
"In this paper the expressions for transistor power gain and stability are derived. The power gain of the staggered tuned triple is determined to show the advantage of synchronous tune amplifiers over staggered tune amplifiers where transistors are the active element. One stage of an I.F. amplifier is designed to show the application of the theory to color T.V. I.F. Amplifiers. The Linear integrated amplifier is analyzed from the black box viewpoint and an example of I.F. design with commercially available integrated circuits is given. Appendix 1 give the derivation of power gain equations for a single tuned and double tuned output circuit."
"This paper describes a video i-f amplifier and agc system combined with a commercially available VHF tuner to form a compact television \"receiver\" system. The printed circuit board of the video i-f and agc circuitry is completely shielded by a metal cover comparable in size to a miniature VHF tuner. The combined unit requires d.c. power and horizontal keying pulses from the main chassis and will provide video and 4.5 MHz sound outputs."
"We have been producing a high performance line of large screen, solid state monochrome television receivers since August, 1965. This paper discusses unique circuitry aspects of this transistor receiver as well as the design background concept of meshing the overall performance into a highly commercial home entertainment product. Salient features and design problems as applied to existing solid state devices are discussed and where applicable compared to vacuum tube type techniques."
"The rapidly expanding color-TV receiver market has been accompanied by much new interest in reducing receiver cost. In this report novel chrominance-signal processing circuits are described which reduce the tube count with a consequent lowering of cost, and at the same time provide desirable features such as high-performance automatic chrominance control, a color indicator, and two-mode color sync-features normally omitted in low-cost designs. Included in this report are detailed descriptions of the circuits, their modes of operation, performance data, and design data."
"The Secam III A color television system is described with the aid of block diagrams. An attempt is made to explain the philosophy which dictated the design of the system."
"The differences between NTSC and PAL color standards are concentrated in the area of the specification of the encoded composite color signal. Considerations of generation, transmission, reception and display of the reconstituted color picture are all of vital importance in establishing the specification for the encoded composite color signal. It is the purpose of this discussion to describe how the two types of signals are generated in the RCA color cameras and thus draw a comparison of the resulting equipments. In the following discussion, it is assumed that the reader is generally familiar with NTSC and PAL signal specifications. Further, in order to make the comparisons very explicit, the NTSC and PAL specifications as published in the February 1966 Amendments to the Report of the EBU AD-HOC Group, 2nd Edition dated February 1965 are the basis for the discussion that follows. Thus both signals are for 625 lines, 50 field systems."
"As compared with conventional ultrasonic and RF remote control systems, a less expensive, less complicated TV remote control system is quite practical using a compact modulated light flashlight in conjunction with a built in photocell-two transistor amplifier-resonant reed relay receiver to activate the tuner motor and volume control-on-off stepping relay. Whereas present ultrasonic systems may malfunction by the rattling of keys, coins, dog tags, etc., and whereas RF systems may malfunction as a result of lightning, interfering RF carriers, RFI, etc., the optical system is virtually free of malfunction. The writer wishes to acknowledge the inestimable assistance of Mr. William Otto, engineer with Mallory Timers Company, Indianapolis, Indiana, in the development of this system, especially with regard to the application of the Mallory Resonant Reed Relay. Also the many helpful suggestions and encouragement of Messrs. John Zaleski, Arthur Burns and George Sussingham of the Mallory Battery Company."
"A general expression yielding theoretical limiting values for average conversion transconductance, Gc;, as a function of oscillator driving voltage and DC bias current is developed. This expression, together with a modification that accounts for effective resistance in series with the junction, is applicable to all present-day junction transistors. Theoretical and experimental results are compared. Good agreement with theory is postulated for low-cost, mass-produced, transistors up to at least 50 MHz."
"In the April 1966 issue of this Transactions, Vol. BTR-12, No. 1, pages 49 and 50, illustrations 5, 6, 7, and 8 were inadvertently mislabeled. Corrected figures are provided."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Prospective authors are requested to submit new, unpublished manuscripts for inclusion in the upcoming event described in this call for papers."
"It is generally recognized that if overload can be prevented, reverse-bias (gain decreases as emitter current decreases) in gain-controlled transistorized video IF amplifiers is preferred because of the superior bandpass stability throughout the AGC range and because of the uniformity in AGC tracking. Evaluation of overload distortion as a function of gain-control and source impedance indicates what signal levels can be tolerated at various operating conditions. Design based on overload evaluation has resulted in four-stage, 45 MHz amplifiers for color receivers having 70 db power gain, 60 db gain reduction capability, signal handling capability of 400 millivolts at the IF input of 50 ohms, and linear output capability of 3. 5 volts of video at 2900 ohms."
"Investigation of color-television signal characteristics has led to the development of a simplified chrominance channel for television-receiver color decoders. The simple and economical circuit uses only three triodes and one switching transistor. This report contains brief descriptions of the novel features of the circuit."
"This report describes a design concept and its implementation for an all-channel transistorized TV tuner with common RF amplifier, mixer and local oscillator for both VHF and UHF TV bands. The VHF and UHF tuned circuits of each stage are mounted on a common wafer of the channel selector. Interaction between the VHF and UHF tuned circuits is eliminated by the novel use of ferrite beads and shielding. The result obtained by this design concept is a low cost, compact and simple all-channel TV tuner with single knob tuning capability. This work was done at Hazeltine Corporation, Hazeltine Research Division (Plainview, N.Y.), under a contract with Hazeltine Research, Inc."
"The new RCA Dev. No. TA2841 (single insulated-gate) and Dev. No. TA2644 (dual insulated-gate) n-channel silicon field-effect transistors have great flexibility for use in a large number of television circuits. Although originally designed for use in rf amplifier stages, these units have the desirable combination of high transconductance and low feedback capacitance which assures excellent performance in many other television stages, including low-level-video, chroma, and agc circuits."
"Summary form only given, as follows. In the July 1966 issue of this Transactions, Vol. BTR-12, No. 2, there was a transposition of pages. The correct sequence should be as follows: 171, 172, 173, 174, 177, 175, 176, 178 and 179."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"This index covers all technical items that appeared in this periodical during the year."
"The index contains an entry for all items that appeared during the year."
"A comprehensive listing of the articles and departments included in 1966."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"A laser radar ranging system intended for a variety of experience in an advanzed electrical engineering undergraduate projects laboratory is described. Pseudo-random coding is applied to the laser beam via a KDP crystal modulator, by means of digitalmodule circuitry and silicon-controlled rectifier circuitry. The equipment lends itself to a number of studies in pulse and digital circuitry, statistical communication theory, and electro-optical engineering. Mention is made of other uses of the laser, which is of the low-power CW helium-neon type."
"A semiconductor device laboratory course is described which has been developed as a senior technical elective. The objectives of the course are to strengthen the experimental understanding of abstract solid-state parameters, to weight the overall curriculum somewhat less heavily in abstractions, and to provide background for more advanced experimental work either in graduate school or in industry."
"The method of Fourier transforms is used to separate variables in the two-dimensional wave equation. The resultant ordinary differential equation in the transformed height function is solved, subject to boundary conditions at the surface of the earth, the source, and very great height. Use of the inverse transform then leads to the complete solution, in the form of an integral, as a function of height and radial distance. This integral cannot be evaluated exactly except by numerical methods. However, for all except the shortest distances, a practical solution can be obtained by the saddlepoint method. This procedure demonstrates the existence of a diffracted wave in addition to the components obtained from geometrical optics."
"The inclusion of a course in Symbolic Logic in the senior year curriculum of Electrical Engineers is defended with reasoning drawn from two of its aspects: 1) The historical: A summary of the development of S.L. from Leibniz to Lewis and Lukasiewicz is presented. The degree of attention given to it by prominent men of thought is proved to be a fact that cannot be denied or ignored by any serious, scientific minded scholar. 2) The practical or pragmatic: The impact and the uses of S. L. in modern engineering research are shown to be a factual situation. Some examples are given and authors quoted, aiming at giving workers in fields not related to computer logic, computer linguistics, finite-state machines etc., an overall view of the many particular instances of the use of S.L. in the recent research literature. No speculations are made about the future use and importance of S.L. The enlightened reader will at once perceive the implications of the presented arguments. A selected bibliography of 68 entries supports the text."
"Using the Ritz method (or Principle of Harmonic Balance), equations relating amplitude and phase to system parameters and driving function parameters are developed for an equation of the form x + 2wcoog(i) + w4f(x) = A cos wt, where g and f are monotonically increasing. The object of the development is to show the analogy to the linear case, and hence to extend the students' intuition for linear second-order systems to the above-mentioned class of nonlinear second-order systems."
"In this paper, the convolution theorem is used as a fundamental tool to solve problems associated with frequency translation, amplitude modulation, sampling, and transformation of random variables. The four basic steps involved in the convolution of two functions are explained in detail using graphic techniques. It is concluded that the approach used makes possible the covering of a class of important problems at high level and in a short period of time."
"This short paper offers a new technique to extract independent solutions from a certain type of ordinary differential equation which would frequently refuse to declare all the solutions under conventional infinite series treatment. This new mathematical tool, most suited for differential equations with elusive solutions, is not found in the mathematics courses taken by a first-year graduate student in Engineering. It should, therefore, be of special interest to him, when he is in the dilemma of deciding whether he has an oversupply of boundary conditions or a shortage of arbitrary constants. Assuming that the differential equation is not in error, he is most likely negligent in not having claimed all the independent solutions from the differential equation. The new technique described in this paper may help remedy this situation."
"With the assumption that the customary current distribution and far-field distance approximations apply, this paper develops the far-field expressions for short linear antennas (2h=l<λ/10), each half immersed perpendicularly h meters in a dielectric. As an illustration of topics such as linear antennas, reflection and refraction at a dielectric interface, phasor addition of waves from several sources, etc., for the undergraduate student, the paper demonstrates that the E and H far fields at a given point in the first dielectric are invariant to the second dielectric provided the first dielectric is not changed."
"Approximate solutions to ϕ+f(ϕ)=0 are developed by truncating f(ϕ) to a cubic and solving for the unknown coefficients by matching in the phase-plane. The object of the development is to show that the phase-plane represents a useful set of parameters with which one can develop flexible approximate solutions."
"An analytical method is given for determining the time intervals between points on the phase-plane trajectory of linear second-order systems. The procedure uses the concept of elapsedtime loci and is particularly useful where nonlinear systems can be reduced to piecewise-linear form or where the forcing function is linearly time dependent."
"A method is presented for solving nth-order nonhomogeneous differential equations with constant coefficients. In this method, an operator is employed which transforms the original equation into a homogeneous Nth-order (N≥n) differential equation with constant coefficients; this can then be solved using one of several elementary procedures."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"Much of the controversy over programmed learning has its genesis in a misunderstanding of the behavioral principles at its base and an identification of the external features of early programs with the full range of possibilities. This paper briefly describes the principles of programmed instruction and discusses recent evaluations of some earlier studies of programming variables. This discussion leads to a consideration of the relative importance of certain variables, like error-rate and relevance of stimulus to response. Finally, a procedure is outlined for the systematic generation of programmed material."
"In our increasingly complex industrial endeavors, there are \"corporate structures\" of management dedicated to the efficient operation of the business. It is becoming increasingly important that these managers be aware of the fundamentals involved, the secondary side effects, the changes resulting from computer applications, and the requirement that their efforts must have a central engineering logic if they are to be effective. Today's system and technical managers must do more than regulate human beings in the reduction of a goal to its simplest form for solution. They must coordinate work on many complex, interacting components to attain one compatible, central, predefined function. An individual who can comprehend the whole picture as well as understand the applicable physical laws, politics, and economics must also understand the utilization of the full capability of modem data processing and simulation equipment if he is to be on top of every problem in the timely application of the trade-offs necessary to the planning, construction, and operation of an efficient system. It is not enough to have talent available on tap to solve problems as they arise. This obviously calls for a capability to: 1) recognize and define problems, 2) utilize data processing and computation tools for optimization, and 3) specify solutions. It also means complete integration and coordination at all levels of management. The alternative is duplication and chaos, luxuries which the engineering profession and a healthy nation cannot afford."
"It is shown how ever-increasing enrollments, the explosion of knowledge, advances in technology, and social changes have affected undergraduate electrical engineering curricula to a point where they are seemingly unsatisfactory for a career in the power field. A program is outlined to provide undergraduate and graduate training to a limited number of engineers serving the public utilities. Concrete suggestions are made for the organization and financing of the proposed scheme. The importance of research at universities is emphasized."
"To stimulate wider use of flowgraphs as an aid in teaching undergraduate electronics, a self-contained tutorial account of flowgraph techniques is presented, which assumes no prior specialized knowledge. This elementary, but systematic and detailed review of flowgraphs is grouped around three major techniques: 1) problem formulation and model definition suitable for coding of input data compatible with programmed data processing, 2) construction procedures with emphasis on understanding those flowgraph properties upon which these procedures are based, and 3) symbolic and numerical evaluation as an initial step towards model optimization. Elementary but representative examples are presented step-by-step, examined in great detail, and frequently related to similar but more complex problems reported in the current professional literature."
"The main reason for presenting this paper is to stress for educators the interpretive information that can be gained concerning the response of a second-order system when the solution is cast in a state variable form, with results plotted as state plane trajectories. Although the treatment is more exhaustive than usual for a beginning undergraduate, a wealth of engineering insight becomes available which is normally lost. Two such insights may be noted: the fact that the underdamped response is closely related to the geometry of an ellipse whose dimensions are determined by the system parameters and the initial conditions; and the fact that critical damping is geometrically more logically viewed as a limit of the underdamped response, although in a purely formal sense the critically damped solution is derived equally well from either the under-damped or overdamped solution. Other interesting information easily obtained concerns certain restrictive rules governing the locations and shapes of the trajectories for the overdamped case; rules which become clearly evident in the state plane portrayal, but which are not evident from an analytical formulation."
"This paper presents an elementary consideration of the relationship between G(s) on the s-plane, and G(z) on the z-plane, where G(z)=ΖL-1 G(s). Two simple circuits are used as examples, and the magnitudes and phases on the two planes are compared. A simple cardboard-template method of calculation is employed."
"Graphical immittance transformations on the Smith chart often appear to require some constructions which lie off the chart sheet. Two graphical methods for angle determination are presented which, in conjunction with a previous method for magnitude determination, keep all constructions on the Smith chart sheet. A feature of the angle determination methods is the pre-emption of the reflection coefficient angle scale to measure immittance angles directly."
"Any active three-terminal device can be characterized for low-frequency work by means of input and output static characteristic curves. From these curves, the piecewise linear equivalent circuit of the device is then obtained. The active device can be excited by sources connected between each of the three terminals and a reference terminal. Alternately, these sources can be considered to be external Thevenin equivalents between each terminal and the reference terminal. Under this general form of excitation, the complete input and output equivalent circuits, including the effects of terminations, can then be obtained. The results are given in terms of independent sources and hence are easily applicable to any circuit involving active elements."
"Generalized functions, e.g., Dirac delta functions and derivatives of the same, are currently in vogue. In this paper there is developed a practical approach to generalized functions and the many uses thereof in Fourier and Laplace transform theory. A novel concept, the \" line of convergence\" concept, is central to the approach. By use of it, generalized steady-state analysis (e. g., sinusoidal and exponentially weighted sinusoidal analysis) of linear time-invariant systems is tied with transient analysis to a common methodology in transform theory."
"This paper is concerned with a rigorous, yet intuitively appealing, justification of the optimum mean-square-error linear filter design procedure under the constraint of physical realizability. By use of the formulation and solution of an equivalent finite dimensional geometric problem, the following two (intuitively) difficult questions are answered. 1) Why can't the physically realizable optimum design be implemented by simply taking the physically real portion of the unconstrained optimum? 2) What is the significance of the \"whitening\" filter operation which must be implemented before the physical realizability constraint can be introduced? Finally, the problem is shown to be closely related to the principal axis transformation problem for quadratic surfaces and a three-dimensional example is provided to complete the analogy."
"This paper describes a magnetic flux density measuring device (BMD) which is a helpful teaching aid in the study of the fundamentals of electricity and magnetism. The relatively low cost of construction and the simplicity of design should appeal to the university professor who wishes to ilustrate the principles of electromagnetic interaction with a demonstration, but is limited budgetwise and time-wise. The device is actualy used in calculating the force on a current carrying conductor in a magnetic field. Further algebraic manipulations yield the data for plotting a B-H magnetization curve for the ferromagnetic material used in the core. In an attempt to make the information given more readily useful, an example of the experimental procedure used at the University of Southwestern Louisiana is included. Part I describes the procedure for obtaining the data for plotting the B-H curve. Part I illustrates the quantities which determine the direction of the force on a current carrying conductor in a magnetic field and the property of residual magnetism. To reduce the somewhat time-consuming routine calculations required to obtain the data for plotting the B-H curve, a sample digital computer program is included which will perfonn this task."
"An experiment and apparatus to perform this experiment is described which has proved successful in illustrating the significant features of various forms of automatic control systems. The experiment described is intended for use in nonmajor electrical engineering courses and has been devised to require a minimum of skill on the part of the students performing the experiment. This experiment can and has been adapted for other uses. Construction details are available upon request from the author."
"\"Waveforms and Ac Meters\" is a laboratory experiment for use in the instrumentation portion of the junior electronics laboratory at the University of Arkansas. The experiment illustrates that voltmeter readings for nonsinusoidal periodic waveforms must be interpreted in terms of meter type and wave shape. The material contained therein is neither new nor profound, but insofar as the author has been able to determine, there is no other presentation similar in scope and detail."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"A discussion of conclusions to be drawn from engineering layoffs concerning engineering obsolescence is followed by a discussion of industrial management's attitude toward the use of continuing formal education of their engineering employees on a part-time basis. It is suggested that industry finds little intrinsic value in such programs as evidenced by their policies in administering them. It is concluded that perhaps some of the present ideas of \"modern\" engineering courses intended to ward off engineering obsolescence may be of marginal value."
"The Preliminary Report of the \"Goals\" Committee of the American Society for Engineering Education, and the resulting impact its recommendations have had in drawing out its proponents and opponents, clearly indicate that engineering education is approaching a crossroad. This paper suggests that the essential issue to be decided is the role that an engineering education should, or perhaps could, play in a college or university. The issue is examined by first developing a rationale for a college education and then discussing the implications of this proposed rationale. It is proposed that, at this crossroad, engineering education should develop into a pre-engineering baccalaureate program taught by engineering scientists (who will also offer graduate programs in engineering science) followed by a postbaccalaureate professional engineering program taught by professional engineers."
"The mathematics of error analysis, though reviewed in measurements books and laboratory manuals, is rarely experimentally applied at an elementary level. An approach based on experiments that investigate and specifically illustrate measurement errors on a basic level is described. The purpose in introducing these experiments on an elementary level is to develop in the student both an ability to understand and analyze experiments and data with respect to errors, and an understanding of the interrelationship between the theory and the experimental implementation of a measurement. Furthermore, there is a need for the student to be able to design measuring systems and develop techniques with minimal complexity to satisfy specific accuracy and tolerance requirements. This approach is implemented by a sequence of experiments, two of which are described in detail. The first of these experiments, \"Measurement Errors,\" is concerned with error weights and the concepts of accuracy, precision, resolution, and consistency of measurements and measuring systems. In the second experiment described, the principles of digital and analog measurements and their associated errors are investigated."
"The electro-magneto-plasma-gas-dynamics (EMPGD) equations are summarized, based on the single-fluid, continuum-theory, macroscopic plasma-dynamics theory. The derivation of the three-dimensional wave equations for linearized, isotropic, compressible, warm plasma is reviewed. In accordance with a well-used approach in the theory of elasticity, the wave equations are separated into the acoustic ((longitudinal) and the electromagnetic (transverse) waves."
"The interval function which assigns f(b)-f(a) to the interval [a,b] is called the subtracate of f, and is denoted by f The substracate A of the indicial admittance A of a linear time-invariant system provides a natural time-domain transfer function for the system which preserves information about discontinuities in A. These subtracates are used as operators on point functions, and a validation is obtained of Heaviside operational calculus which accommodates dimensional analysis and distinguishes between operators and operands. It is shown that a Stieltjes convolution integral provides a more natural basis for the calculus than a Riemann convolution integral."
"Methods are developed for the construction of constant gain loci on positive and negative Smith charts using only the minimum aid provided by existing Smith chart scales, a compass, and a plain straight edge. Analytical verification of the constructions is included."
"The methods for determining the roots of polynomials by analog computer techniques are varied, but stability analysis is usually of chief concern. The computer approach used in this paper always produces stable operation, and introduces an equivalent transfer function representation of the polynomial, a linear transformation, and a generalized iterative analog computer program. The accuracy obtainable is not comparable to that of digital programs; however, the procedure is basic to engineering analysis and should not be overlooked from the academic viewpoint."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"According to the results of a preliminary survey, about half of the engineers in the aerospace and avionics industry read a professional society journal, about half read at least one of the review journals, about two-thirds read the more serious technical magazines, and about one-quarter read technical contract reports issued by firms or agencies other than their own. The 1765 returns obtained from 2200 questionnaires distributed (2000 in the Military Products Group of Honeywell, Inc., and 200 in three divisions of the Martin Company) indicate that certain groups, such as supervisors, authors of signed articles or symposium papers, and engineers holding advanced degrees, read much more than engineers in general do. Supervisors depend more on technical magazines than other groups do, and authors and advanced degree holders depend more on professional journals and review journals than others do. On the whole, nonsupervisory engineers who have won awards for exceptional creativity read much more than the average. The encouragement of the reading of at least certain classes of periodicals should advance the cause of continuing education, but a number of questions remain to be answered."
"A textbook in solid state electron physics for undergraduates in, electrical engineering has been programmed by a method of \"support programming.\" Instead of re-editing the entire book, as is usually done in programming, the textbook has been left intact and the program has been assembled in a separate booklet. This booklet is planned for use in conjunction with the textbook, each page in the booklet corresponding to an identically numbered page in the textbook. This method has considerable advantages in cost and flexibility over the conventional method, and leaves the textbook intact for future reference use. An unavoidable drawback is the limitations that it naturally places on the program construction, for example, in that the sequence of reading is not well controlled. The method has been evaluated in connection with a regular undergraduate course at Chalmers University, Gothenburg, Sweden. The results were measured in the final examination which was based on the textbook exclusively. Students using the programming had, on the average, 34 percent higher grades than the students not using the programming. Comparing only students not attending the regular scheduled teaching, the corresponding figure was as high as 62 percent. The main advantage seems to be that the teaching can be extended also to students who for various reasons study on their own and therefore miss the regular teaching support of their studies."
"Over the past years, the electrical engineering laboratory has developed from an apprenticeship into a stereotyped demonstration program. In general, this program has been held in low esteem by both faculty and students. An attempt is made here to present the beginnings of a program which will lead to a solution of the laboratory dilemma. A brief historical review of the development of the laboratory in electrical engineering curriculums is given, and the Projects Laboratory and the Undergraduate Research Participation Program that have evolved at the University of Oklahoma are described. Two examples of typical student work performed in these advance programs are presented. At the present time, these programs are restricted to upper-division students. These are usually seniors, though outstanding juniors may participate. As the program continues to grow, and faculty experience is gained, it is expected that the laboratory philosophy described here will make itself felt downward through the cirriculum."
"An experiment has been performed in which some of the students in a laboratory course were used as teachers of the course for their fellow students. The results have been evaluated in terms of student response and results of course examinations and special tests. The results show a positive influence on the understanding of the laboratory course material. A positive influence on the engagement in the general theoretical course study was postulated by the participants, but did not show in the analysis of the examination results."
"As an integral part of the required course \"Introduction to Engineering,\" every freshman engineer at Arizona State University is involved in a realistic design project. The object is to give the student a clear idea of the role of the engineer, the challenges he faces, and the skills he must acquire. In this project, each student works as a member of an \"engineering firm\" which develops a new design that is based on one of a number of ideas originally generated by the students themselves. This paper describes how this design competition is organized. This design experience, running through the entire semester, is paralleled by weekly lectures by prominent engineers from industry, as well as by formal conventional instruction in the elements of engineering analysis and computation."
"This paper describes the two-course sequence in digital systems at the Pennsylvania State University Electrical Engineering Department, available to advanced undergraduate and first year graduate students. The philosophy of the courses and their laboratories is discussed with the special features of this approach indicated by course outlines and comments on each individual course. The importance of teaching some form of digital systems to every graduating electrical engineer is stressed throughout."
"Two classroom methods which can be used consecutively to demonstrate the minimization of Boolean functions are presented. The first is a simplification of Caldwell's decimal tabulation for obtaining prime implicants, and the second is a topologically oriented procedure for reducing the set of prime implicants to minimum Boolean functions."
"This paper presents four techniques convenient for use in the evaluation of the transient response of networks. Each of these formulated methods may be programmed easily to produce the transient response of a network with the occurance of each sampled value of the input. Two of these methods are obtained through approximations of the convolution integral, and the other two are obtained through the representation of the input in the form of a sum of step functions. Several illustrative examples are given at relatively low sampling rates. With all of the techniques, the accuracy in the evaluation of the transient response is dependent upon the sampling rate."
"The well-known technique of the Heaviside partial fraction expansion is generalized and extended to the state transition matrix determination. The new approach is more convenient than the direct inversion of a square matrix, on one hand, and is much simpler than Sylvester's expansion method, on the other. Two examples (one is a system with distinct roots and one with multiple roots) are included for illustrating the procedures and showing the simplicity of the method."
"An experiment is described illustrating the fact that an approximand to a periodic function in the form of a truncated Fourier Series minimizes the mean-squared error. The experiment is implemented on an analog computer wherein the first three components of a periodic wave are generated and their amplitudes (and phases to a certain extent) are adjusted to minimize the squared-error integrated over one period. Sources of error are discussed briefly, and experimental technique is outlined. Verification of the principle of minimization is obtained to within a few percent in all cases."
"An attempt is made to define and solve a class of optimal control problems. In the treatment of the problem, the notion of state and the concept of the principle of optimality are employed. The approach taken here makes the solution of the problem easy to follow by most of the undergraduate students in an electrical engineering curriculum. This is in contrast to almost all the material available in this field. Two examples illustrate the application of the theory."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"The following author listings include title of paper, page number, and month."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"The members of an organization possess experience and skill that are too often neglected by management. These dormant resources can be released as management develops facility in communicating with the individuals who make up the organization, singly and in groups. To improve organizational effectiveness, communication must be aimed at improving both interpersonal competence and technical competence. Management must deal with both the feelings of human beings and their ideas."
"Starting a microthesaurus can be made into a fairly simple matter of collecting terms and then revising and organizing them according to certain rules. This paper outlines one possible procedure and gives examples of preliminary and revised lexicons for the computer field."
"Studies and experience suggest that organizational communication takes place at very low efficiencies. Supervisors should give considerable attention to individual and group communications, so as to avoid large and unequal \"distances\" between themselves and their employees. Each employee has his individual \"need to know,\" and the magnitude of this need is generally underestimated. A formal program of communication can do much to increase job efficiency and job satisfaction."
"Organizational communications generally take the form of personally prepared and processed information. More and more, impersonal machinery such as computers is intruding into this heretofore excluded activity. Some existing forms of computer augmented organizational communications are considered."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"A study of the development of technical writing in India is made. Factors which have hampered the growth of technical writing, such as patterns of education, language barriers, individual apathy, and lack of recognition, are discussed. Effective and timely communication networks between research and industry are emphasized. Treatment of technical information as an economic entity is advocated, since the scientist and engineer form the communication link between science and society. Change in the patterns of education to develop better technical writers is suggested. In conclusion, progress in technology is intertwined with that of technical writing and both need the same type of nourishment."
"Engineering writing is described as a verbal \"modeling\" process which represents ideas, equipment, operations, etc., in the form of linear text. The modeling applies certain standard linearization techniques to convert the n dimensions of the idea, equipment, etc., into the single dimension of written text. Various linearization techniques are listed and discussed: the linearization provided by time sequencing, by sequencing as a definition, by sequencing as a block diagram, by sequencing in an order of priority, by sequencing as an operation, by deductive sequencing, by inductive sequencing, by arbitrary or random sequencing, and by sequencing in a formal outline."
"Increased interest at federal government levels in effective scientific information exchange, and the impetus of data processing technology, are changing the field of engineering writing and report production and distribution. Both these factors leading to change are summarized."
"Nearly one third of the members of the IEEE Group on Engineering Writing and Speech responded to a questionnaire distributed by the Group in 1965 to determine if the Group was satisfactorily serving the needs of the members. The replies to the questionnaire indicated that about 27 percent of the members are professional writers and the remainder are mainly engineers interested in improving the quality of their writing. Thus the group must satisfy the needs of individuals desiring advanced as well as basic writing instruction. Seventy-eight percent of the members are satisfied with the benefits they have received from the group. Suggestions received most frequently involve an increase in chapter activities, more frequent and reliable distribution of Transactions, and the introduction of writing seminars and handbooks."
"This paper describes a course for giving engineers practical training in proposal writing. A similar course has been given during the past four years at University Extension, University of California, Berkeley. The course includes an introduction to proposals, and a description of how they are published and are evaluated. The workshop assignments require that each student write major parts of a proposal. The steps involved in preparing the course are described here to enable G-EWS members to plan a similar workshop for in-plant training."
"Most university curricula in engineering are seriously deficient in training in the techniques of communication. Consequently, most engineers are poor communicators because they have never been taught the proper techniques of speaking, listening, and writing. This paper calls attention to several communication problems; shades of meaning, background experience, sophisticated language, and vocabulary limitations are considered. Suggestions are made for the improvement of these areas."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"The procedure and formula used in the radiological analysis of reactor testing at the Nuclear Rocket Development Station are described. Monitoring methods are discussed and comparison is made between measured dose levels and guide values."
"Telesensors, teleoperators, and telecontrols are words defining sensory systems, electromechanical operators, and controls systems operated by man from a distance. Because of the increasing demand for equipment that can give man the ability to operate in hostile environments, operating from a distance is now a major need. Remotely operated systems can provide this capability if they satisfy the following three functional requirements. They must provide the human operator with a high level of ability to do complex non-routine operations in remote locations, provide the human operator with a real sense of presence at the remote location, and provide the human operator with real time information concerning operations in the remote environment. When we review the state of the art, we find that most available equipment is inadequate. Although most remotely operated equipment does not now comply with the three functional requirements listed, enough work has been done so that additional work can result in systems that will meet these tests. Furthermore, it is probable that the technology developed will be useful in other applications such as equipment for the rehabilitation of the handicapped."
"Silicon P-N junctions fabricated using kilovolt energy phosphorus and boron ions are described. The dopant ions are implanted through a previously applied layer of sputtered quartz, resulting in a conductive silicon layer of 0.1 to 1.0 μ thickness beneath the passivating quartz. Advantages of counters constructed in this manner are resistance to abrasion and ambient vapors similar to that of diffused counters, and uniform, thin dead layers smaller than those of typical diffused counters. In addition, temperatures used in fabrication are lower than those used during diffusion, so that the lifetime of high resistivity silicon should not be affected. Best values obtained with phosphorus ions implanted through 1200 angstroms of quartz are a dead layer of 0.16 microns combined with a surface resistance of 600 ohms. One-half inch active diameter counters implanted with boron ions through 1200 angstroms of quartz have yielded a breakdown voltage of 1050 volts, and resolution when cooled to 120°K of 80 keV from 70 to 400 volts, for 5.4 MeV alpha particles, with a calculated depletion depth of 1.1 mm at the latter voltage. Implantation through a mask has been used to produce ten counters on a single slice for use in the focal plane of a magnetic spectrograph. The counters are 11 mm in length and 0.9 mm in width, with 0.1 mm separation between implanted areas. Resistance between counters is about 6 megohms, enabling negligible crosstalk, and optimum resolution is 120 keV at 100 volts bias, with a depletion greater than 0.4 mm."
"Previous investigations have shown that the characteristics of shallow diffused junctions frequently exhibit important departures from those predicted by the ordinary solutions of the diffusion equation. These characteristics depend on the details of diffusion processes and play an important, but not completely understood, role in establishing detector quality. For example, the resolution loss associated with the junction deadlayer is generally greater than that predicted by simple statistics. This paper reports the results of a series of investigations undertaken for the purpose of optimizing the properties of detector junctions. Junctions studied have ranged in depth from 0.75 micron to several angstroms (estimated). Diffusion methods and junction structure are discussed. In addition, a rapid method for determining the details of junction structure by electronic scanning is described."
"Characterization of the gallium diffused junctions found useful as amplifying radiation detectors indicate a rather surprising window-junction depth relationship. The window, at only the self bias of the junction, has been measured to be a micron or so although the junction depth is ~50 microns. This is a result of the unusual diffusion process used - diffusion to 75 microns with subsequent removal of the heavily acceptor doped, first 25 micron region. Because of potential for low energy detection of these structures (which require thin windows) stress is placed upon window measurements. Measurements made of the response of these structures as photon detectors in the near infrared (0.7 - 1.1 micron) wavelength region are reported. Also initial results which indicate that the x-ray cutoff for these structures lies in the 44-60 Angstrom range."
"Pulse amplitude spectra for fission fragments from the spontaneous fission of Cf252 have been studied for more than 50 silicon surface-barrier detectors. Silicon resistivities ranged from 100 to 2000 Ohm-cm; spectra were obtained for several bias voltages for each detector. A search for correlations among shape parameters associated with Cf252 fragment pulse-amplitude spectra was carried out. Such correlations were, in fact, observed and are shown to be related to the pulse-height response characteristics of surface-barrier detectors for fission fragments. Some guide lines by which the quality of a fission-fragment detector may be determined from the spectrum parameters are given."
"An accurate measurement of the average energy lost by charged particles per hole-electron pair produced in semiconductor detectors as a function of temperature is desirable in view of the recently noted response of detectors at low temperatures. A simple model for the value of ϵ, the average energy per hole-electron pair, was proposed by Shockley in 1960. This model has been extended in the present work to predict temperature effects upon ϵ. Silicon and germanium lithium-drifted counters were designed and built for detecting 1 Mev electrons and/or 5.5 Mev alphas over a temperature range of 4°K to 300°K. Techniques and the necessary equipment to measure the charged produced from a single indident ionizing particle within 0.4% were developed. Data were taken for silicon and germanium detectors for temperature ranging from 20°K to 300°K. These data only qualitatively agree with the simple model. The evidence points to an additional effect over the ones invoked by Shockley. The room temperature values of ϵ for the silicon lithium-drifted counters observed in the present experiment agree with those for silicon surface barrier detectors which were recently published."
"A study of the operating characteristics of diffused window lithium drift silicon detector has revealed that the level of compensation is independent of depth. The compensation corresponds to a net impurity concentration of 5 × 1010 impurities per cubic centimeter and is approximately three order of magnitude poorer than that set by current flow through a diode. Using time stability studies it is possible to differentiate between stability of compensation in the bulk or main body of the detector and in the window (diffused type) area of the diode. By appropriate biasing a lithium distribution can be obtained in the window area which has good time stability. The stability of the compensation in the bulk of the diode is sufficiently high that the diffused window detector will provide many years of operation, even when the detector is left largely unbiased."
"Germanium lithium-drift p-i-n diodes for high resolution 7-ray spectroscopy have been made with sensitive volumes in the range 16 to 54 cm3 (1 to 3.3 in. 3) using the coaxial method of drift. Details of the construction, mounting and preparation as spectrometers are given. The shape of the undrifted p-type core has been determined by scanning with a collimated 7-ray beam and by copper plating the surface of a sectioned diode. The characteristics as spectrometers, using 7-rays of energies in the range 0.1 to 7.5 MeV, are shown. At 122 keV energy, resolutions of 5.0 and 4.4 keV (fwhm) were obtained with diodes of sensitive volumes 23 and 54 cm3 respectively. A 16 cm3 volume diode had a resolution of 4.8 keV at 1533 keV 7-ray energy, and a 45 cm3 diode had resolutions of 6.5 and 19 keV at energies of 1.1 and 5.1 MeV respectively. The diodes were operated at bias voltages in the range 600 to 1500 V. Intrinsic full energy peak efficiencies are shown for different diode sizes over a range of 7-ray energies. For the 54 cm3 volume diode, these efficiencies are 21% and 8% respectively for 7-ray energies of 0.5 and 1.0 MeV with a source to diode distance of 30 cm. The larger diodes show a greatly enhanced peak/total ratio, and the higher efficiencies make these spectrometers extremely useful in reaction y-ray, y-7 coincidence, and n, y studies."
"The high efficiencies of large volume 'coaxial' Ge(Li) detectors make them attractive for coincidence experiments. However the electric field in this configuration is not uniform and hence the charge collection times vary widely as a function of position in the detector. The resultant variations in output pulse shape limit coincidence resolving times. In our studies one 511 keV annihilation quantum (22Na source) was detected in a scintillation counter to establish the zero (start) time and its partner in the Ge(Li) detector (at 1500 V) was accepted only when a full energy pulse was registered. The stop pulse to the timesorter was generated by the leading edge of the Ge(Li) preamplifier pulse at ~ 10% (50 keV) of maximum amplitude. Scanning the detector with a 1 mm wide collimated γ-beam resulted in time distributions whose full widths at half-maximum (fwhm) were ~ 8 nsec in the coaxial region of the detector broadening to ~ 35 nsec at the closed end. The distributions are skew in shape with long approximately exponential tails having half value slopes of ~ 5 to ~ 20 nsec. Similar studies with stop pulses generated at ~ 50% of maximum amplitude show much broader time distributions. The position variation in pulse shapes due to charge collection time was confirmed from oscilloscope photographs by triggering with the scintillation counter 'start' pulse."
"Anomalous behaviour of the capacitance and gamma detection performance of some wide depletion layer lithium drifted germanium diodes has recently been reported1. The observed effects were explained qualitatively in terms of the type of ions absorbed on the surface of the intrinsic layer2 . Surface potential measurements made with a vibrating condenser probe are presented, which support the theoretical model. The potential probe has also been used to determine the effect of various surface treatments, and thereby assist in the production of diodes having useful low temperature characteristics."
"Ambient Storage Effects and Mounting Problems of Very Large Volume Ge LID Detectors, Guy Armantrout - In order to better understand the problems involved in mounting and handling a large volume Ge LID detector, a study was undertaken of the surface-setting procedure before mounting and the effect of diode storage for varying periods of time at the ambient temperature. The diode surface potential, diode capacitance, and diode V-I characteristics were taken as a function of different surface treatments before mounting. The results were correlated using an inversion layer model for the diode. Leakage currents less than 0.5 nA at 3 kV have thus far been obtained. The compensated region of Ge LID diodes is slightly supersaturated with lithium at room temperature. These diodes tend to revert back to the original P-type material because of lithium precipitation. The rate of precipitation was found for several diodes and was found to be a function of the effective lithium mobility."
"Lithium drifted silicon radiation detectors exposed to normal ambient have been shown to have a surface n-type layer which extends from the \"n\" side over to the \" p\" side of the device. In this paper a continuation of the study of surface problems is presented, and a successful method for the control of leakage current and noise due to surface breakdown is shown. Noise measurements carried out on Li-drifted silicon devices show clearly the existence of two mechanisms for surface noise generation. One has the characteristics of shot noise, while the second one is much noisier than shot noise. Surface potential measurements correlated with light probe scanning give indication as to the origin of the currents which cause the two types of noise. The measurements also suggest the desirability of increasing the resistivity of the surface layer, and show that this can be attained by increasing the magnitude of the internal fields normal to such surface. One possible way of increasing the magnitude of the fields normal to the exposed junction surface consists in shaping the Si crystal so that, after the Li drifting process has been completed, regions of high fields exist within the compensated region. A comparison of cylindrical, planar, and \"inverted T\" types of p-i-n devices shows the superiority of the third type of device in that it is possible to apply high bias (between 150 and 200 V/mm at room temperature) before the onset of the high noise mechanism."
"The characteristics and most recent results with a semiconductor fast-neutron dosimeter are dTscribed. This device is a wide-base silicon n+ - p - p+ junction whose forward resistance is controlled by the density of injected charge carriers in the base region. The injected carrier density profile is a function of the carrier diffusion length. Upon neutron bombardment, the diffusion length is decreased, which results in a decrease in injected carrier density within the base region and thus an increase in the forward resistance of the device. A sensitivity range from 1010 nvt to > 1014 nvt is presently attainable. The accuracy of readout ranges from ± 50 per cent at 1010 nvt to ± 5 per cent at 1011 nvt and continues to improve at higher integrated fluxes. The effect of base width, forward current level, material properties, and processing parameters on the sensitivity and uniformity of device characteristics are discussed. The current-voltage behavior of the device is shown to correspond to a model by Rose(l) for diffusion-dominated double injection in semiconductors. The small size and ruggedness of the dosimeter and the simplicity of readout make it particularly suited for radiation-effects experimentation, accident dosimetry, and biological dosimetry."
"Response Function and Sensitivity of Double-Diffused Silicon Detectors in High γ-Dose Rate Fields, R. W. Kuckuck, R. Bernescut, M. R. Zatzick and C. P. Jupiter - A number of double-diffused (PIN) silicon detectors were exposed to peak γ-dose rates of 1019 γ-MeV/cm2-sec generated by a flash x-ray machine. Detailed examination of the rate and linearity was accomplished by superposition of a 200 Mc Rossi signal on the oscilloscope traces of the test detector, as well as that of the non-saturable monitor detector. At detector bias voltages of 3000 V, and load impedances of 25 ohms, peak linear currents of approximately 48 amps were observed with rise times of less than 10 nanoseconds. Sensitivity measurements of the detectors were obtained at lower dose rates of about 1016 γ-MeV/cm2-sec by exposure to a thick target bremsstrahlung source, using a 10 MeV Linac beam. The current-time integral of a detector signal provided a measure of the charge per pulse and a thimble ionization chamber was used to measure the average dose per pulse. Sensitivities are provided in units of amp/cm2/γ-MeV/cm2-sec per micron of depletion depth. Results also include sensitivity vs detector bias voltage curves and calculated time response curves for an assumed δ-function gamma excitation pulse."
"Various aspects of the siting, design, construction and operation of nuclear power plants to which the Atomic Energy Commission gives attention in its licensing activities are discussed, together with the reasons why they are considered important to public safety. This includes the measures taken to assure the integrity of the nuclear fuel and primary coolant system under all operating conditions; to provide adequate means of coping with emergency situations; and to limit the consequences of accidents to levels which do not endanger the health and safety of the public."
"Projections of installed nuclear power plant capacity are provided as a background forthe scope of activities with which utilities will be concerned for safety purposes. A description of the types of safety analyses is presented as well as the assumptions basic to such analyses. Finally, the \"layers of conservatism\" in present methods of analysis are illustrated and suggestions made toattach quantitative values to these layers."
"A system has been constructed and used for on-line acquisition of data at the Iowa State Synchrotron Laboratory. The principal components include eight Victoreen analog to digital converters (ADC) and a fast general purpose digital computer (SDS 910) along with the necessary interface circuitry to couple to the digitized outputs of scalers, clocks, etc. Although quite flexible in application, the ADC-to-computer interface was designed especially for efficient use (minimum deadtime and bias) both with an accelerator having a beam burst of about 100 microseconds duration and for continuous operation. To minimize ADC deadtime ineither circumstance, each 8Mc/sec ADC, equipped with an analog buffer, is connected through a plugboard to a digital buffer register synchronized to the ADC. This permits readout of the digitized pulse heights in less than one microsecond. In experiments where the ADC's operate completely independently of one another, a hardware option is provided to interpret the buffer register contents as addresses in the computer memory. This option eliminates the necessity for software programming of data input: the contents of the associated word in memory may be either incremented or decremented automatically in a minimum of two computer cycles. Some biasing in efficiency normally occurs in multiple ADC systems at high counting rates when two or more registers are waiting for readout. To reduce such bias to a negligible amount, logic governing data transfer to the computer sequences through a hierarchy of register preferences with a periodicity of 128 microseconds."
"An on-line data processing system has recently been placed in operation in conjunction with two electrostatic accelerators at the Los Alamos Scientific Laboratory. The system consists of a Scientific Data Systems Model 930 computer and an experiment-computer interface unit designed and fabricated at LASL. The system provides for time-shared operation of three separate experiments. Up to nine fast analog-to-digital converters may be utilized by these three experiments. These ADCs may be connected and fanned-in to the computer in a variety of ways ranging from nine simultaneously operating separate devices to a combination for a nine parameter coincidence experiment. The system design places considerable emphasis upon rapid set-up to facilitate change from one experiment to another. Provision has been made for ccmputer control of experimental apparatus, and for data input to the computer from other sources such as scalers, clocks and voltmeters. The interface portion of the system has been implemented entirely with integrated circuits and is modular to the extent that future expansion can easily be accomplished."
"During the past three years, an online computing system has been designed, installed and used extensively in connection with low-energy nuclear physics experiments. The system is used by experimenters and both the 4.5 MeV Van de Graaff and the 12 MeV Tandem accelerators at Argonne National Laboratory. At the heart of the system are two inter-connected small computers (ASI 210 and 2100). These machines have fast operation times and both have 8192 words of core memory. Peripheral devices include punched card and paper tape equipment, typewriters, line-printers, two magnetic tape units, and a display oscilloscope with a \"light pen.\" ASI 210 is interfaced to a 4096-channel pulse-height analyzer and to 4 ADC units in the Tandem experimental area. The ASI 2100 has long-line links to the 4 MeV Van de Graaff and to the laboratory's CDC 3600 central processor. Experiments at both accelerators can interrupt the 3600 and use its high computing power to great advantage. The system is currently being augmented by the addition of the large external core memory (98,304 words) addressable by both small computers. The chief function of this memory is to act as a large two-parameter pulse-height analyzer and as additional storage for program. A special on-line data-handling program has been developed which greatly facilitates the acquisition and manipulation of experimental data. A brief description of the entire system will be given together with a description of the various ways in which it has been used."
"Two data-acquisition systems are described; both are built around small digital computers and are designed for use in nuclear spectroscopy experiments. The computers are used for storage of data, graph plotting, control of hardware devices and CRT displays, and for routine arithmetical operations required in the preliminary analysis of experimental data. Both computer systems can be easily operated by relatively inexperienced personnel. Most routine operations can be controlled with simple multiposition selector switches, although more specialized operations are carried out with a question-and-answer routine on the typewriter. Operations involving CRT display can be initiated with the light pen. With this procedure, routine operation of the computer requires little more training than is needed to operate a pulse-height analyzer."
"A general-purpose digital computer has been incorporated as an integral part of a data acquisition and processing system for use in neutron time-of-flight experiments. The system has been used successfully in experiments designed to measure the neutron capture and fission cross sections of U235, U233, and Pu239 as a function of neutron energy. A digital computer was chosen for these experiments because of the increased data handling capacity that could be attained as compared to that attained with a conventional analyzer. In the application of the latter to time-of-flight spectroscopy, the channel width Δt is chosen to meet the energy resolution required by the experiment. The computer was programmed to simulate a series of analyzers, each having a channel width appropriate for the energy region covered. Eight regions were used with the channel width changing by a factor of 2 in successive regions. The recording of data in this manner greatly increases the time range which can be covered without sacrificing energy resolution. With the computer the increased flexibility in the control of the experiments can also be obtained. Another feature which has proved very useful is the scope display which permits a detailed visual inspection of the data during the experiment."
"A versatile master control system for nuclear physics instrumentation systems is described which is designed to act as an interface between the instruments and an on-line computer or programmable control system. The system utilizes diode-pin matrix boards at each instrument to route command signals over a set of program lines which are common to all instruments. Thus an output control command signal from one instrument can be routed via any program line to control command inputs of any other instruments."
"Dual Zone Spatial Analysis (ZSA2 or ZSA-ZSA) performs spatial (position) analysis of detector data, applying techniques familiar in two-parameter pulse-height analysis. ZSA-ZSA is designed to police multiple-detector (hodoscope) nuclear experiments during initial setup and throughout data accumulation and readout. Interconnection, timing, and operational errors, equipment failure, detector misalignment, and noise pulses are detected, annunciated, localized, and tallied. Programmed test routines simulate the experiment. Data logging further assures integrity. Simultaneous studies are readily performed by steering data to different memory locations. The current version handles two 32 detector arrays plus control detectors. Capacity is limited by the 1024 word (17 bit words) ferrite core memory."
"The need for multiparameter multichannel analyzers which span a range of millions of channels is easily demonstrated. To meet this need three basically different techniques have been developed: event recording, multi-window preselection, and associative-memory analysis. Criteria for choosing between the various systems or combinations of them are reviewed. Within each analyzer class, design features which have proved effective in hardware and software implementations are presented. Two new systems, presently operational at our laboratory, are described. The first, a computer time-shared, magnetic tape, three-dimensional event recorder, has additional facilities for accumulating analysis and display of any three single dimensional spectra. Display selection parameters and window boundaries are all inserted by direct light pen manipulation on the data field. A second megachannel analyzer system, which uses computer programmed associative-memory techniques offers the user a more effective utilization of core memory than was attainable in the past. Finally, certain features such as speed, event entry, and memory utilization are reviewed in the context of the various systems."
"At the National Bureau of Standards a flexible data handling system for use with the NBS Linac has been built. In developing this system the need for ease of modifications, ease of coding, and lexibility were carefully considered. The NBS system is designed around a building block concept. Certain of these building blocks represent the necessary interface between the specialized input-output devices and the computer while the remainder of the blocks represent specific devices such as analog-to-digital converters, scalers, and other devices to facilitate man-machine communication at both local and remote stations. The modular concept of both hardware and software development has allowed for great flexibility in the devices connected to the computer at any time and in the programs required for use with these devices. New hardware building blocks can be added to the system with no difficulty and with no change in existing programs. The general building-block approach to the NBS system together with examples of specific units will be described."
"Modular programming for the handling of data on-line with a general purpose digital computer considerably simplifies the programming task. A system called ROMEO implementing this concept has been developed. More than 150 relocatable, self-contained programs of some 30 types have been prepared and used in a nuclear physics experiment using an SDS 920 computer. These programs, falling into the housekeeping, data accumulate, data manipulate, and data output categories, are described briefly and their use in the experiment is discussed. About 30 of these programs are stored in fast memory concurrently with loading and deleting possible during the experiment."
"The SNAP 10A, 2, and 8 nuclear reactor systems are designed to provide electrical power on space vehicles or environments of ultrahigh vacuum. Although each system has different power capabilities, the control components are basically the same. Development of the various control components and subcomponents is discussed. The electromechanical actuator, bearings and gears for each SNAP system are reviewed in detail. A control-drum-drive mechanism that provides fail safe scram capabilities for ground testing of the reactor system has been designed and proof tested. The details of this design as it applies to SNAP 10A systems are presented."
"The development of components for the SNAP (Systems for Naclear Auxiliary Power) program requires life-testing under fast neutron and gamma irradiation in ultra-high vacuum at temperatures to 1200F for periods up to one year. Thermal-vacuum evaluation is first performed followed by irradiation testing at levels to 1019 nvt (E> 0.1 Mev.) and 1010 r (Gamma) at operating temperature and pressure. The practical problems involved in conducting a successful component irradiation program include considerations of material compatibility with the irradiation and temperature levels, proper selection and operation of vacuum equipment, and the establishment of procedures which provide the cleanest possible conditions within the siamulation chamber. This paper discusses the above problems and the modifications which were required in both materials and vacuum pumping equipment. Materials phenamena related to the combined vacuum-temperature-irradiation environment are also presented. Discussion is made of the technical problems experienced in the combined environmental tests of two SNAP 10A control drum actuators coupled to two control drum position sensors."
"LMSC provided five sets of radiation dosimeters on the first SNAP 10A (reactor-thermoelectric converter) power system flight test to measure the reactor leakage radiations throughout the SNAPSHOT Agena orbital vehicle. Fast neutron and thermal neutron flux and gamma ray dose rate measurements were made. The radiation measurements were required for in flight analysis of the reactor steady state leakage radiation effects on the SNAPSHOT orbital power conversion, guidance, command and telemetry equipment. This solid state equipment was specially \"radiation hardened\" to withstand a year's exposure to the reactor radiations in the space environment. The paper covers a description of the dosimeters, principles of operation of each type of instrument, development, ground testing, calibration, vehicle integration and flight test results. Flight data of the reactor startup are presented in direct computer printout form showing the quality of the nuclear measurements obtained from the dosimeter orbital telemetry system. A brief description of the SNAPSHOT vehicle nuclear distributions developed from the flight measurements is also given."
"This paper describes the SNAP 10A instrumentation and control subsystems. The component development testing and qualification test procedures are described and illustrated by reference to specific control component development testing. Validation of component and subsystem compatibility obtained by the use of developmental systems is discussed. Developmental and qualification test systems are described which illustrate the ground testing activity employed on the SNAP 10A program to ensure that the flight systems are capable of withstanding all of the expected environmental factors with a high degree of confidence in the ability of the systems to meet performance requirements."
"The SNAP 10A/Agena Space System, developed under the joint direction of the Air Force Systems Division and the Atomic Energy Commission, is described with emphasis on the inter-relationship of the several subsystems and their integration with the Nuclear Power Unit. Development and refinement of the space system design by means of integrated subsystem and system level testing performed on a full-scale functional mockup of the spacecraft and payload is discussed with emphasis on the instrumentation and telemetry subsystems. The method of demonstrating electromagnetic compatibility of the space system is described, both as performed on the functional mockup and the flight vehicle proper. Final pre-flight system testing of the spacecraft, including the payload and payload simulator, up to the time of launch is discussed. Particular emphasis is placed on the discovery and resolution of problems that appeared only at the system level of testing and those that were the direct result of the uniqueness of the nuclear reactor payload. Integrating a nuclear power unit into a space vehicle and ground testing of the resultant system presented many typical aerospace system problems, but no truly new ones and certainly no insolvable ones. The technology resulting from the development of the SNAP 10A/Agena system is directly applicable to nuclear space systems in general. Subsequent nuclear power systems can be less experimental in nature and require less complex instrumentation and control, with a corresponding reduction in the complexity and time span of ground testing."
"SNAP 10A, the first space nuclear reactor power system, was launched and brought to full power on April 3, 1965. The unit consists of a compact reactor, cooled by a liquid metal and coupled to a thermoelectric conversion system. The reactor uses a fully enriched uranium-zirconium hydride material as the combined fuelmoderator and beryllium as the reflector. The demonstration of one primary SNAPSHOT objective - verifying the safe and routine, transport, test and launch of a nuclear system, culminated in the launch at Vandenberg Air Force Base. Launch preparations began with the establishment of generalized procedures for the factory-to-flight sequence. A safety analysis followed, resulting in development of safety devices, administrative controls and emergency procedures. Training of the crew and the validation of the support equipment was accomplished by handling and testing usage in the operations at Atomics International. Further training, procedure verification and equipment validation was obtained by a trial shipment and by sending a test system through the operations sequence. SNAP 10A arrived at VAFB on February 16. After a brief reassembly and checkout period, it was transported to the launch pad. A double pad cycle was instigated to ensure safe and complete checkout. In the first cycle, the system mated to the Agena was subjected to a SNAP 10A-Agenalaunch complex compatibility test. A simulated flight test followed, wherein a complete launch through orbital startup sequence using the backup systems was checked. A second simulated flight test exercised the primary systems."
"The SNAP 8 reactor is a heat source suitable for long endurance 10 to 50 kw space electric power supplies. The major milestones in the development of this reactor are three ground tests: the SNAP 8 Experimental Reactor (S8ER), the SNAP 8 Developmental Reactor Mockup (S8DRM), and the SNAP 8 Developmental System (S8DS). The S8ER test was completed in April 1965 after 500 days of nuclear operation. S8ER demonstrated long-term operation of the SNAP 8 reactor by operating for 1 year at thermal power levels in the range 400 to 600 kwt with a 1300° F coolant NaK outlet temperature. This test included a continuous run of 5000 hours. The continuous operation of S8ER was due in part to a facility reliability upgrading undertaken to minimize unnecessary test interruptions caused by instrumentation malfunctions or electrical disturbances at the test site. The second SNAP 8 reactor, S8DRM, has undergone a series of nonnuclear tests to verify the performance of the automatic startup and control drive system, and to determine the reactor's environmental capabilities (e.g., shock, vibration, vacuum, and temperature). The third SNAP 8 reactor test, S8DS, will start nuclear operation late in 1966. The objective of this test is to verify the SNAP 8 flight reactor design, and to operate the reactor coupled to a power conversion system."
"In the output power range below one electrical watt, the combination of an isotope heat source with a metallic thermoelectric converter yields characteristics that are superior to systems employing other kinds of energy sources or conversion methods. When the output power is to be delivered at a high impedance, the metallic thermocouple shows a substantial advantage over the semiconductor thermocouples. The isotope-metal thermocouple system can be designed to yield other important power source characteristics such as the ability to withstand severe mechanical vibration and shock and to produce constant output power over a very wide range of temperature ambients. The design for the present (SNAP-15A) device allows for an ambient range of from -65° to + 165° F, but a much wider range can be accommodated. Transient response to ambient temperature change can be tailored to specific requirements for uniform power output. Finally, the device can operate under water, in air, or in vacuum. The device characteristics support a wide range of potential applications. Following are some of the applications under consideration: 1. Provide a steady reference voltage for long life applications. 2. Supply a network of radio beacons for the lunar landing area. 3. Power transmitters for remote weather and detection data. 4. Provide fail-safe ultrareliable long-life power in space satellites. 5. Power miniaturized communication sets. The degree to which the new device is competitive with other power sources for such applications depends on the detailed requirements."
"Various aspects of communication theory are examined to consider their applicability to radiation measurements. The continuing development of the semiconductor radiation detector with its improved energy resolution has intensified interest in obtaining more information on the fine structure of a complex radioactive decay scheme. The system design criteria discussed includes correlation functions and decision theory. Suitable assumptions, model evolution, and problems to be solved are presented. Ideally the goal is to be able to detect and measure a monoenergetic signal regardless of its energy level or proximity to other monoenergetic signals. Clearly implied in these requirements are both the capability for the minimization of noise effects to improve resolution, and the ability to reach into any existing noise to identify signals smaller than the noise."
"A possible method for analytically removing the effects of pulse pile-up is described. The theory of pile-up distortion of gamma ray spectra, the least squares fitting procedure, and experience with the experimental computer program SPADE are also covered, along with the effects of normal counting statistics on the unpiling procedure."
"This paper describes the apparatus and techniques that are being developed at our laboratory in order to investigate the response of scintillators and semiaonductors to X-ray excitation. Examples of the signal averaging technique are shown using the highly attenuated output of a precision pulse generator as the signal source. A discussion of the intended applications of the apparatus is presented."
"In this paper we discuss a device which consists of 2n-1 strips of scintillation plastic coupled via light-pipes to n photomultiplier tubes in such a way that the combination of tubes which count at a given time gives directly the binary representation of the coordinate of whichever strip is traversed by a high-energy particle. We discuss how one might use such a device in high energy physics. In addition, we have constructed a device with n=4. Its geometry and its light-transmission properties are discussed."
"A method has been developed to automatically correct for the dead time losses in a 4πß and 4πß-γ coincidence calibration facility. Since radioactive disintegrations occur at random in a manner described by the Poisson distribution, the probability of observing exactly \"0\" counts in an interval in which the average number of counts is \"vT', is: Po = e-vT. By measuring \"Po\" in the interval \"T\", the true counting rate \"v\" can be calculated. This counting rate, as thus determined, is independent of any model for dead time behavior of the detector and substantially independent of secondary pulses. A simple three-channel instrument which measures \"Po\" is described. This analysis is applied to Geiger, proportional, and scintillation detectors. Comparison of the true counting rate from this analysis to the conventional output can be used as a simple, accurate determination of resolving time."
"A neutron time-of-flight spectrometer has been constructed and used to measure the energy of inelastically scattered 14.6-Mev neutrons. Neutrons were produced by the T(d, n) He4 reaction and flight time was measured using the associated particle method. Both neutrons and associated alpha particles were detected with plastic scintillators and photomultipliers. The transit time difference in the neutron photomultiplier was minimized with the aid of a nanosecond flash lamp that could be placed at various spots on the photocathode. Inexpensive avalanche transistors were used as time markers, pulse amplifiers, and in pulse-height discriminators to provide a \"fast-fast\" coincidence system. Time-of-flight was resolved (FWHM) to 0.95 and 1.6 nanoseconds with 20 percent and 86 percent energy windows, respectively, on the neutron detector."
"Synchronous-chopper neutron velocity selectors are often preferable to crystal monochromators. We have investigated the degree of synchronization which may be achieved with choppers using commercially available hysteresis-synchronous motors. With many commercial variable frequency generators, period instability limits synchronization to ± 15 microseconds. Using signal generators of high period stability (e. g. crystal oscillators, digital frequency dividers, very stable power amplifiers) synchronization to within 1 microsecond is readily achieved. At this level, small fluctuations in friction are readily observable. Magnetic instability can produce drifts over long periods unless careful attention is paid to motor requirements. Extensive experimental results will be presented."
"A pulse pile-up rejection system was developed and used successfully with a NaI gamma spectrometer to measure the bremsstrahlung spectral distribution from a 0.2-radiation-length gold-tungsten target bombarded by high energy electrons from a pulsed electron linear accelerator. The system utilizes a double differentiation technique to reject those scintillation events where more than one gamma ray is detected during a single linac pulse. The pulse pile-up rejection circuit was used effectively over a gamma energy range of 0.25 Mev to 21 Mev and increased data collection speed by about a factor of 20. The performance of the system agrees with theoretical predictions calculated on the basis of Poission statistics. Gamma spectral distributions measured with the system at the EG&G linac are presented to demonstrate utilization of the system."
"This paper presents experimental results of tests on new techniques of constructing superconducting cables; those fabricated from braided elemental and high field alloying superconductors. Braided superconducting cables are feasible for small size, packaged delay lines. Tests were facilitated by the use of. a tunnel diode pulse generator operating at 4.2°K. Cables fabricated with a braided niobium outer conductor and a solid niobium inner conductor, lengths of 200 feet to 1500 feet, show an output 10%-90% risetime of less than 3 ns at 4.2°K. When compared to the same length of RG-213U a marked improvement is observed. Similar cables constructed of a solid Nb-25%Zr inner conductor, lengths of 263 feet and 900 feet, exhibit an output 10%-90% risetime of 0.65 ns. These results indicated that the risetime was not a function of length as is the case in ordinary cables."
"A set of four modular building block elements have been designed for use in a variety of satellite experiments. These elements comprise an amplifier, a zero crossing discriminator, a linear gate and a pulse shaper. The circuits are constructed in hybrid form using discrete transistors and tantalum thin film resistors on ceramic substrates. This form of construction was dictated by considerations of radiation damage, component tolerances and power consumption. An attempt has been made to design the elements so that they can be used in a variety of ways. Individual examples of these applications are given in the context of a particular space experiment. This experiment involves the use of a multielement semiconductor detector telescope and employs approximately 100 of the analog building blocks. The total transistor count is approximately 500 and the power consumption is less than 1.5 watts."
"Monolithic integrated circuits have made tremendous inroads into many areas of electronics during the past year. The purpose of this paper is to characterize some of the available circuits and to discuss the problems and the possible gains in applying them to instruments used in experimental physics. Toward this end, a series of instruments are described that have been designed and constructed and are in use at this laboratory. These include a 50 mc decade prescaler, a 10 mc systems-type decade scaler, a time interval counter, an integrating analog-digital converter, and a packaged data acquisition system with a tape perforator output. These instruments are examined with regard to economy and reliability of operation. Interfacing with existing experimental equipment is discussed and solutions to problems uniquely associated with the use of integrated circuits in physics experiments are defined."
"An eight channel logarithmic pulse rate measuring circuit has been designed for use with a tissue equivalent gas proportional counter system. The use of thermal feedback in monolithic silicon microcircuitry is described together with its application to the temperature stabilized logarithmic pulse counting circuits. With this form of temperature compensation, each channel exhibits a logarithmic characteristic which is absolutely accurate to within 5% over 3 decades for the temperature range from 0°C to 60°C."
"An integrated circuit charge-sensitive preamplifier has been designed for use with gas filled proportional counters and/or silicon nuclear particle detectors. The circuit uses positive current feedback to achieve open loop voltage gains over 2000. The preamplifier noise with zero input capacitance is 1750 ion pairs (rms) which is equivalent to 14.3 kev (FWHM, silicon detector). The rms noise versus capacitance is 50 ion-pairs per picofarad. Charge sensitivity was found to be essentially independent of external input capacitance. The low frequency open loop gain can be increased by the addition of an external capacitance across the feedback resistor. This also has the effect of increasing the amplifier bandwidth."
"A solid state nuclear pulse amplifier designed with emphasis on temperature stability and linearity is discussed. Other characteristics include fast recovery from 500X overload, high count rate capabilities, common mode rejection, low zero-crossover walk, and a choice of pulse shaping (lumped delay lines and RC time constants). The basic amplifier, without shaping, is stable to within 50 ppm/°C at gains up to 1024, and exhibits ±0. 01% linearity up to 10 volts output. The basic feedback loop used in this amplifier has been analyzed in a previous article for gain stability as a function of temperature. The results of this analysis are summarized here, and a theoretical study is made of some additional feedback loop characteristics - frequency stability, transient response, and temperature stability versus input pulse rise time. With large output swings and/or high count rates special problems arise affecting risetime, fall time, linearity, and zero-crossover walk. The causes of these problems are determined using simple feedback loop theory. Finally a diagram of the complete amplifier circuit, with a description of shaping networks, is presented."
"A digital pseudorandom noise generator is described and analyzed. The generator output is predictable and deterministic in nature allowing precise calibration of the signal bandwidth occupancy. It is designed by use of a linear feedback shift register and exclusive-or (modulo-two) logic elements to produce maximum cycle sequences of 2N-1 where N is switch selectable. Modulo-two arithmetic and delay operators describe the generator by use of characteristic polynomials. Many independent noise sources are derived since there is a complete lack of correlation between outputs delayed a shift command apart. The auto-correlation function of the binary signal determines the time functions suitability as a random noise source. By use of this function the corresponding spectral density function is shown to approximate (sin x/x)2. By use of this function the bandwidth of the generator is shown to be directly proportional to the shift oscillator frequency. Two examples are given illustrating the use of the generator."
"The charge multiplying semiconductor detector has unique characteristics as a charge amplifier in a circuit containing a tunnel diode biased for charge detection. The relationship between the tunnel diode junction capacitance and switching speed to the electrical parameters of the multiplying detector will be discussed for minimum charge detection. Experimental data will be presented for an instrument using these principles that has a charge sensitivity of 10-16 coulombs. The simplicity and small volume that can be obtained using this technique can result in considerable economic advantages in the construction of large detector arrays for low energy particle detection."
"A constant-charge pulse shaper has been used as the basic element in two fast timing circuits using photomultipliers. The shaper is based on storage diodes (snap-off diodes) and delivers an approximately constant charge at the output, almost independent of the input current pulse amplitude. These constant-charge pulses are delivered to a tunnel diode, which in the sub-nanosecond range is a charge sensitive device. A coincidence circuit and a time-to-amplitude converter were built and operated with a Co60 source, two plastic scintillators used with 56 AVP tubes, and a slow coincidence discriminator. With a range of 20 mA to 200 mA the coincidence slope was 0.4 nsec for half-amplitude, while the time-to-amplitude converter showed a FWHM of 0.8 nsec on a multichannel analyzer."
"This paper describes a discriminator for use with nuclear detectors that incorporates both a pulse height threshold and a true zero-crossing time detector. A negative doubly-differentiated signal is applied both to the base of an avalanche transistor and to a tunnel diode pulse height selector. The transistor is normally biased off but if the leading edge of the signal trips the tunnel diode, a pedestal is applied to the emitter of the transistor allowing it to avalanche when the input signal crosses zero. By driving the discriminator directly from the anode of a proton recoil scintillation detector, a total time shift of less than one nanosecond can be obtained for pulses ranging from 1.1 to 30 times threshold."
"A zero-crossing type of discriminator with a very wide dynamic range and a short dead-time is described. When used with a 56 AVP photomultiplier with a linear dynode resistor chain, a light amplitude variation of at least 125:1 may be accommodated. The relative time shift of the output discriminator pulse is then only 200 p.s."
"A circuit has been developed which reduces amplitude-dependent timing errors to less than 0.2 nsec over a dynamic amplitude range of more than 100 to 1. The anode signal is clipped, and a pedestal added, allowing adjustment of the discriminator to the true \"zero-crossing\" point. Tunnel diodes are used as threshold devices and pulse shapers. A version of this circuit adapted to RCA-2067 photomultipliers is described which features a pulse-recognition threshold variable from < 1 to 10 mA and a pulse-pair resolution of < 15 nsec. In tests performed with a mercury-light pulser and in coincidence experiments with plastic scintillation counters, the time delay through this discriminator was found to be essentially independent of the signal amplitude over the linear range of the photomultipliers."
"A detector system has been made to detect the decay of K+ particles generated in nuclear events in the twenty cycles per second hydrogen bubble chamber at the Princeton-Pennsylvania Accelerator. The purpose of this system is to preview each event to minimize the number of non-productive photographs. Ninety-six (96) large plastic scintillator counters form an array covering 180 degrees of the down-stream side of the chamber. Particle discrimination is done by generating a clock timing pulse from counters placed in the incoming beam which enables a set of coincidence gates driven by individual array counters, in such a period as to exclude outputs due to various prompt particles (i. e. the primary beam or the results of various elastic interactions in the chamber). A second level of gating is required to determine if the interaction has occured during a period in which the chamber was sensitive. The output signal is used to trigger a chamber illuminating flash tube to photograph the event."
"Solid state circuits demonstrating fast speed of response, miniaturization, and low power consumption have been replacing relay circuits in the logic portion of recent nuclear reactor safety systems. Some of the advantages of relay logic, such as circuit isolation, minimum number of parts, and low cost have been lost in the transition. A solid state and a relay safety system are described, and the application and merits of each are developed. Both system designs can meet the principal safety criterion of having the capability to take safety action when required under all operating conditions and with the presence of any one fault eitherwithin or outside the safety system. Secondary criteria used to compare the merits of each system are operability (freedom from false shutdowns), simplicity in testing, ease of maintenance, speed of response and cost. Reliability considerations include mode of component failure, frequency of testing, and the need for developmental testing."
"Ostensibly, reactor safety systems compare nuclear and process measurements with predetermined operating limits and initiate automatic warning and protective functions. The importance of system engineering and establishing the levels of safety and availability required for reactor installations are discussed. Safety system logic schemes, operator confidence in the equipment, and protection against the effects of chance failures in safety circuits are considered. The authors suggest that existing reactor safety systems should be examined in light of the philosophical, logical and circuit considerations. Possible component failures should be evaluated on a system effects basis to determine the need for the automatic annunciation of these failures and to provide a measure of the system's capability of providing the required automatic corrective actions and protection against unnecessary plant shutdowns. Since reactor safety systems are a combination of different circuits in which the analog to digital interface is not always displayed, failures are not necessarily annunciated and a cascading of failures is possible. The development of the basic philosophy for these systems is a complex process employing broad and complex technical considerations."
"This paper describes an in-core reactor startup system employing fission counters and fission chambers to cover the range of in-core neutron flux of 105 - 5 × 1012 nv in a gamma field of 2.5 × 107 R/h at 550°F. The system can also be used with out-of-vessel fission counter-chambers where the range of 100 - 1010 nv has been covered."
"A major consideration in the control of a nuclear power plant such as the Experimental Gas-Cooled Reactor is the regulation of both the temperature and pressure of the steam entering the turbine. This paper describes a control system which varies the primary coolant flow and reactor Dower to make the plant produce steam at the required conditions of temperature and pressure over a wide range of steam flows. Analog computer studies showed. that the control system was able to make the simulated plant smoothly follow both large changes of turbine load (changing at a rate of 10% per minute) and small rapid changes of load (l% per second) while limiting the transient variations in steam conditions to acceptable values."
"The buildup of xenon-135 following the shutdown of high-flux thermal reactors with low excess reactivity may render these reactors subcritical for many hours. It has long been known that preshutdown power variations can modify the xenon-135, iodine-135 transients to correct this problem. Recently the techniques of Pontryagin and others have been used to optimize power programs which control the xenon buildup. Point reactor models have always been used. This paper reviews the solution associated with a minimum time optimality criterion. The effect of spatial variations in power, xenon, and iodine are shown to affect greatly the optimal power trajectories. Numerical comparisons between point and one-dimensional models are presented for a bare sphere reactor. The role of a digital computer in analyzing and controlling the shutdown procedure is discussed."
"In the detection of fuel element cladding failures in sodium-cooled reactors of high power density, it is desirable to discriminate between different types of such failures. Cladding rupture signals consist of count rate excursions, whose shape or \"signature\" is expected to depend on the type of cladding failure; the duration of these phenomena is expected to amount to a few minutes, and possibly include \"spikes\" of 0.1 sec. The accurate recording of such signals requires a display system bandwidth of the order of 100 cps; at the same time, no display or record is normally required except during an excursion. The system devised to meet these requirements inscribes counts directly on a continuous loop of magnetic recording tape and also presents them to a \"prompt\" count rate meter. After a short delay, the tape is read into another count rate meter which drives a fast oscillograph; the readout system is turned on only when the prompt CRM signal exceeds a predetermined level. The record thus consists of pre-signal background during the write-readout delay plus slightly less than 5 min of excursion signal, on two channels."
"An accelerator pulsed fast reactor has been constructed and placed in operation at General Atomic. A 20 megawatt L-band electron accelerator drives a super-critical U-235 metal reactor. This device has the unique characteristic that peak power and pulse width can be varied independently by adjusting various accelerator and reactor parameters. Pulse widths range from less than 0.1 μsec to 5 μsec and the fast fluxes attainable are in excess of 5 Χ 1015 n/cm2/sec at the surface and about an order of magnitude higher internally. Further improvements are planned to increase these yields by an order of magnitude. In addition to single pulse operation, these devices can be repetitively pulsed up to several pulses per second to provide high intensity fast or thermal fluxes if some means of cooling the fuel is provided."
"A spectrometer design to measure the flux and energy of electrons present at Gemini orbital altitudes is briefly described. The instrument utilizes a thick lithium drifted silicon detector, coupled with a 50 micron dE/dx silicon wafer and plastic scintillator to detect electrons of energy 0.25 ≤ E≤4.0 Mev. Straightforward pulse height analysis employing tunnel diode discrimination feeds a specially designed, fully digital data processor. When connected to the spacecraft PCM telemetry system, a seven energy channel spectrum is sampled every 1.3 seconds. Dynamic range of the instrument is sufficient to handle omnidirectional fluxes of up to 106/cm2-sec. A special collimator provides an aperture of 0.25 steradian so that particle direction, as well as intensity, can be determined."
"A neutron detector has been developed for space research applications which has directional properties for neutrons with energies greater than 10 Mev. The neutron detector is a proton recoil type utilizing 1000-1 mm diameter NE-103 plastic scintillator filaments embedded in a non-scintillating potting compound. The detector's axial efficiency is found to be 2% for 14 Mev neutrons and has an angular response half width of 30°. For pulse heights corresponding to En >5 Mev the contribution from gamma rays is negligible. A detailed description of an experiment utilizing this detector to search for solar neutrons is given. This work was supported by the National Aeronautics and Space Administration under Contract NASr-211."
"Cosmic radiation telescopes constructed at the University of Minnesota will be flown on the Polar Orbiting Geophysical Observatories, POGO C and D and on the Pioneer Deep Space Probes C and D. These experiments are designed to measure the differential energy spectra of protons, helium nuclei and heavy nuclei up to a charge Z=14 in the range 1.0 to 1200 Mev per nucleon. The POGO telescope utilizes a combination of scintillation and Cherenkov counters together with a semi-conductor detector. Use of the thresholds in the geomagnetic field extends the energy range for protons to 30 Bev. A Geiger tube, four lithium-drifted silicon detectors, and a Cherenkov counter comprise the Pioneer telescope."
"A small, relatively low-power spark chamber with vidicon readout has been developed for balloon-and satelliteborne high-energy gamma-ray astronomy investigations. The system has been extensively ground tested, and is scheduled for a balloon launch in winter 1965. The spark chamber consists of eight 7\" × 7\" × 1/8\" and fifteen 7\" × 7\" × 0.02\" aluminum plates for determination of gamma-ray flux arrival, direction, and interaction mean free path. Beneath the spark chamber, a lead-glass Čerenkov counter, 10 radiation lengths thick, is employed as an energy calorimeter. The spark chamber detector continually views a solid angle of 0.84 steradian, and can determine photon arrival direction to a few degrees. A stereo view of the spark chamber event along with a pulse height display (512 channels) from the Nerenkov counter is recorded on the cathode of a conventional vidicon. The vidicon is scanned at the normal 30 cycle/sec rate and, when balloon-flown, is telemetered to a mobile ground station via a 7-watt transmitter, with a range of approximately 350 miles. The video signal is stored both on video tape and on kinescope film. Visual display allows positive identification of gamma-ray events. The system has been assembled and tested on the ground with satisfactory results. Several systems for automatic computer data reduction using the video tape have been considered and are discussed."
"A new radiation detector instrument system was conceived by one of us (R.M.) in 1962 to measure the spectra of energetic particles in space. A laboratory prototype of a flyable version of such an instrument system has now been constructed under contract to the Air Force Cambridge Research Laboratories. It has been designed to measure unidirectional proton spectra in six energy intervals between 21 Mev and 210 Mev. The system consists of a sealed, compact, six-channel spark-chamber of ceramic and metal construction and associated miniaturized circuits for coincidence triggering, high-voltage pulse generation and data readout. Geiger counter coincidence triggering detectors are arranged co-linearly with the spark chamber. The thicknesses of the plates in the spark chamber are designed so that the intervals in proton range give approximately equal spacings on a logarithmic scale of the proton energy. This spark chamber spectrometer instrument system has the following features: 1. It derives its energy determinations from range-energy relations which are fixed absolute constants for the measurement. 2. The experimental calibration constants such as the solid angle, the effective area, and the direction are common to all channels. 3. It provides digitized information directly in the form of large electrical pulses. 4. It has a detection efficiency of nearly 100 percent. 5. Power consumption is of the order of 1 watt. 6. It is compact and rugged in construction."
"A digitized spark chamber has been developed for balloon borne and satellite gamma ray astronomy. The detector is a multi-array wire, plate chamber utilizing magnetic cores for buffer storage and magnetic tape for data logging. The high voltage system consists of a set of gas krytrons triggered by avalanche transistor pulsers. Track information is stored in parallel into a ferrite core array mounted to the chamber face and buffered via a linear select memory system into a sixteen track sub miniature tape recorder for bulk storage. Also included is a 16 channel rate meter and house keeping multiplexer which interleaves data with track information onto the tape recorder. The package is designed to operate for long periods of time on a single charge of neon-helium gas in a free balloon environment."
"The advent of manned space flight for extended periods will allow the retrieval of important photographic data. Under construction is a gamma ray spark chamber with photographic recording which is a prototype for manned satellite applications. On a 14-day orbital flight it can detect a point source of γ-rays of intensity 10-7 photons cm-2 sec-1 and can determine the power law dependence of the energy spectrum for a 10-6 source. The γ-ray energy can be measured from 2.5.107 to 5.109 ev. The counter triggering arrangement will have a 3П anticoincidence shield plus a directional Cerenkov detector to minimize accidental triggerings of the chamber. A high altitude balloon flight of this system in Panama is scheduled for October, 1965. Two smaller spark chambers, designed to detect cosmic ray gamma rays and electrons, have been flown on a series of 15 flights from 120,000 to 140,000 ft. over the past two years."
"The Triaxial Electron Spectrometer, scheduled for flight on the OGO-E spacecraft, measures flux and energy distributions of electrons reaching the detector with from zero to 10 kilovolts energy. Electrons are analyzed in a curved-plate, electrostatic analyzer, and detected with a windowless continuous-dynode electron multiplier. The multiplier is operated in a constant-output, variablegain, current mode as the null detector in a feedback circuit. Five decades of dynamic range for flux measurements are obtained with a logarithmically compressed analog telemetry signal. Tests of the gain stability of two different channel multipliers have been made for periods of up to 850 hours. These tests indicate that the gain loss can be limited to a factor of two or three during the one year lifetime of the spacecraft."
"A detector system for use with a magnetic electron spectrometer and a proton telescope is described. The experiment will be included on the Orbiting Geophysical Observatory \"E\" (OGO-E) satellite. Electron measurements cover the range from 60 keV to 2.7 MeV in seven differential energy channels. Each channel consists of an electron-plus-background detector and a background detector. A method of handling information from both detectors with the same amplifier system is discussed. This scheme is used to ensure that the proper background subtraction is made in spite of electronic drifts. Coincidence and anticoincidence logic is used for routing the electron-plus-background and background signals to their respective scalers. The four-element proton telescope uses solid state detectors directly in line with the collimator. The telescope lies within the pole pieces of the electron spectrometer magnet. Seven proton channels are provided covering the range from 200 keV to 50 MeV. In addition, three alpha channels from 6 MeV to 130 MeV are obtained. Pulse height selection of the pulses from each detector plus coincidence and anticoincidence between these pulses will resolve the double valued energy loss in the detectors and determine the energy channels. The alpha particles are differentiated from protons only through their greater dE/dx. A tunnel diode differential discriminator is discussed. This discriminator makes its logical decisions at the trailing edge of the input pulse. In this way pulses of varying widths cannot cause false decisions. Two charge sensitive preamplifiers have been developed for this work."
"A cosmic ray experiment to be flown on an Orbiting Geophysical Observatory (OGO-E) consists of Cerenkov, scintillation, and solid state detector telescopes with associated electronics. Primary emphasis in this paper is placed upon description of the 256 channel pulse height analyzer and coincidence system electronics. Description of the three parameter system used for the scintillation telescope is emphasized since it is the most representative of the three telescope systems. A pulse height analysis is performed on each of the three photomultiplier tube outputs. Results are sent into the spacecraft data handling system. Circuits in the analyzer discussed in detail because of their improved performance over previously used circuits are a low noise charge sensitive amplifier, an RC pulse shaping technique, a delay line gated oscillator and a peak detecting circuit for pulse shape discrimination. In conjunction with the basic analyzer a coincidence system using a basic circuit for threshold discrimination and coincidence gating is described. Precise control of resolution down to 100 nanoseconds is obtainable."
"A transistorized 1500 channel pulse height analyzer (PHA) has been developed for satellite use. It is of the \"stepping circuit\" variety, weighs 410 grams, uses approximately one watt and requires about one millisecond per event. This PHA is utilized in several satellite and balloon borne cosmic ray telescopes scheduled for flight this year."
"A simple low cost-low power consumption multichannel pulse height analyzer has been designed and fabricated for balloon and rocket use. This analyzer was designed to be used in a balloon experiment with a directional neutron detector to search for solar neutrons with energies greater than 10 Mev. It can-operate in the temperature range of -30°C to +70°C and can withstand storage temperature from -50°C to +90°C. The input pulses are digitized by an analog to digital converter with a clock rate of 2 MC. The output of the PHTC is read out by a series binary converter and is transmitted by a single subcarrier channel (70 KC ± 15% deviation standard IRIG Band E) to the ground, where it can be stored on tape or directly stored in a laboratory pulse height analyzer memory unit. The dead time of the PHTC is approximately 64 μsec, but the bandwidth of the subcarrier limits the overall dead time to 600 μsec. The analyzer was designed as a 32-channel pulse height analyzer, but by adding a stage to the series binary converter it can be used as a 64, or 128-channel pulse height analyzer. The total average power consumption is approximately 330 mW. The analysis range is from 150 mV to 4.6 V with adjustable zero setting. An external anticoincidence input is provided. This work was supported by the National Aeronautics and Space Administration under Contract NASr-211."
"The application of nondispersive X-ray spectrosccpy to the remote analysis of lunar and planetary surfaces is described. It is possible to design an instrument which is light in weight, fast in response, can be deployed directly over an unprepared surface, and requires little power for each sample examined. An operating breadboard has been constructed and test results are presented. A computer approach to data reduction is discussed. Several specific applications of the method are proposed."
"An instrumentation package is described that will perform five types of nuclear measurements in support of the Apollo Extensions System (AES) manned mission. The measurements will be used for the geochemical and geophysical exploration of the lunar surface and subsurface. They consist of 1) natural gamma ray, 2) spectral gamma ray, 3) gamma-gamma, 4) neutron-gamma and 5)neutron-neutron measurements."
"A rocketborne instrument for locating and mapping the gamma radiating debris cloud produced by high-altitude nuclear explosions has been developed and tested. The instrument contains two scintillating type detectors assembled into a directional uranium shield. Two detectors are employed in order to optimize sensitivity and angular resolution over the large dynamic range of gamma flux rates experienced during the lifetime of the debris cloud. A raster of celestial space is developed by slowly scanning the directional detectors in elevation while the payload rotates in azimuth."
"Three different types of instrumentation with high detection sensitivity for investigation of cosmic x-ray sources are considered in some detail. The first instrument is designed for detection of photons in the 2 to 20 keV energy interval. Large aperture is achieved by ganging together the outputs of many individual gas proportional counters. An x-ray experiment with a total aperture of ~0.1 m2 has been constructed for use on the first Orbiting Astronomical Observatory. The overall nature of this package is discussed and some details of the behavior of the gas counters and their associated electronics are given. Data from flight of similar well-collimated counters on Aerobee rockets suggests the background counting rate is proportional to the wall area of the gas counter. Therefore, instruments combining x-ray optics with a smaller detector are of value. Systems using both aplanatic and Venetian blind optics are considered. Some details are given of a rocketsized Venetian blind detector that was flown for investigation of 0.2 to 3 keV photons."
"It is necessary to protect a nuclear reactor against excess flux. The shut-down amplifier or excess flux trip amplifier supplies information to the safety circuit, so as to produce a reactor shut-down when the power exceeds a reference level. The operation is reviewed and the design requirements applicable to shut-down amplifiers are discussed. The three most essential design features of the shut-down amplifier are to give an indication of the difference between the reactor power level and a reference level, to cause a trip when the reactor power equals or exceeds the reference level, and to give a trip on failure of any component or combination of components in the system and absolute reliability of trip action in response to reactor power."
"Pulse shaping by triple differentiation is described as a technique for reducing the recovery time following heavily overloading signals in nuclear pulse amplifiers. Tests performed on a low-noise pulse amplifier containing triple RC differentiation show recovery to the amplifier noise level in two nonoverloaded pulse widths following a 4,000X pulse amplitude overload. Experimental data is presented to show that the noise level when compared with single RC operation is worse by 1.6X to 3X, depending on the number of low-pass filter sections used in the shaping networks and the type of noise being observed."
"A logarithmic amplifier is described which has a dynamic range of 6 decades of input current (from 10-13 to 10-7 A) while maintaining very good logarithmic response (output voltage deviates less than ±1% from a logarithmic function). A high degree of temperature stability is also achieved (total offset less than ±2% of full scale voltage over ambient temperature range from -10°C to +70°C). It has a usable range (by nonlogarithmic response extensions) to 9 decades. The circuit covers its exceptionally wide dynamic range without range switching. Power requirement is less than 1 W, and the circuit fits ontwo 4 X 4 inch printed circuit boards. It is readily portable and performs well under rugged field conditions, as demonstrated by its successful use in Plowshare nuclear cratering experiments."
"The design of the high-gain, low-noise, charge-sensitive preamplifier discussed in this paper was prompted by the need for a unit that would fulfill many experimental requirements without modification and/or redesign. This transistorized preamplifier has good versatility without sacrificing performance characteristics. The maximum gain is about 650 volts/picocoulomb, but can be reduced by a factor of 1200. The noise figure is approximately 300 rms electrons (2.6 keV fwhm referred to a silicon detector) at zero input capacitance and 1-μs pulse shaping. Either polarity input signal is accepted, with a maximum output of either plus or minus 5 volts delivered to a 50-ohm load with better than 0.05% linearity. When desired, 1-μs integration and differentiation can be switch-selected to provide shaped pulses suitable for scalers or pulse height analyzers. Circuit design considerations to include frequency compensation, linearity, temperature stability, and bipolar operation are discussed. Graphs indicate preamplifier noise and risetime performance characteristics. A brief analysis describes charge-loop performance in terms of circuit parameters. A modified version of the preamplifier, which has provisions for removing the FET from the chassis and cooling it to about 130°K, has yielded a zero-input-c apacitance noise figure of approximately 140 rms electrons (0.95 keV germanium)."
"A hodoscope sensitive to penetrating fast fission neutrons has been designed for the test reactor TREAT. Discrete portions of an imaginary 15 × 23 matrix centered on the fuel plane are scanned by individual fast neutron detector channels. Located outside the reactor core, 13 ft from the test pin, this hodoscope is able to record the movement of fuel with a 0.15-in. horizontal resolution and close to 1-msec time resolution. Instrumentation was optimized with regard to cost. Each neutron signal is translated to a digital positive pulse, several microseconds duration, which gates a 6977 fluorescent vacuum tube into conduction. An array of 334 lamps is photographed by a fast framing camera at 1000 frames/sec, making the readout system, in effect, an inexpensive two-parameter analyzer with a capability approaching 107 cps."
"A method is described for maintaining good operational characteristics of BF3 counters operating in gamma fluxes of 1000 R/hr or more. Loss of good counting ability, due to accumulation of chemical dissociation products of ionization, is counteracted by placing within the counter an absorbing agent capable of removing the impurities from the gas phase. Data is presented showing pulse height resolution of several counters exposed to various levels of gamma flux. Standard type counters are compared to those containing an absorbing agent. A marked improvement in neutron counting ability in gamma fluxes is shown."
"A number of different neutron detectors employing arrays of BF3 counters in hydrogenous moderators have been constructed and tested in the field. Some of the problems of obtaining BF3 counters with matching mechanical and electrical characteristics from commercial manufacturers are briefly reviewed. Several unexpected problems which arise when BF3counters are not used in a controled environment are discussed. A transient sensitivity to gamma rays in some counter designs immediately after the application of high voltage is noted and explained. A technique for reducing spurious counts due to humidity effects by coating the ceramic high voltage insulators with Teflon is described. Spurious counts due to inverting and vibrating the BF3 counters are examined for different sizes of counters."
"Thermocouples made at CANEL have been operated for long periods at temperatures between 2000F and 2500F. Data are presented on extended use in nuclear reactors and in non-nuclear environments. Thermocouples have been operated in inert gas and in liquid alkali metal. The thermocouples discussed are compacted-ceramic insulated, metal sheathed, and hermetically sealed. Detailed discussion is presented on Cb-1Zr sheathed, alumina insulated, chromel/alumel thermocouples. These have been tested and widely used at temperatures of 2000F to 2200F for 10,000 hours in liquid metal, in a reactor flux of 1013 nvt. Fabrication procedures and material specifications are presented in detail. Other thermocouple systems discussed are W-5Re/W-26Re and Mo/Cb. Transmutation effects are evaluated and explained with reference to resonance cross-sections. Failure mechanisms are discussed."
"The dose-rate meter comprises a small area p-n junction counter, charge and linear pulse amplifiers, a discriminator and a three decade logarithmic count rate circuit. It is designed to measure tissue dose rates from ß particles in the range 0.1 to 100 Rad/hour. It also measures, approximately, dose-rates from γ-rays in the same range. The design of the circuits and the application of the p-n junction, which is of commercial origin, are described. The mechanical design which features high component density, robustness, low weight and cost is also discussed. The, noise and stability under conditions of varying temperature and power supply voltage is reported. So also, is the dependence of the sensitivity on the nature, distance and direction of the beta source."
"The performance of the liquid hydrogen flow system during the startup transient of a nuclear rocket was measured in a fullscale simulated engine system at Lewis Research Center. In-flight exhaust conditions were approximated by maintaining a nozzle outlet pressure of 1 psia. Data and general conclusions on overall system performance are presented for non-nuclear operation. The ability of the rocket system to bootstrap (i.e., to build up appreciable hydrogen flow and pressure in the nuclear reactor without extra-system assistance) was clearly demonstrated by using only the energy from hydrogen tank pressure and latent heat of engine components. The severity (small) and characteristics of two-phase flow oscillations during windmill were determined. No significant operational problems were encountered."
"This paper describes the neutron and gamma dosimetry measurements made by the Westinghouse Astronuclear Laboratory (WANL) during the low and high power NRX-A2 and NRX-A3 (NERVA) reactor tests. Measurements were made in an effort to: 1) more clearly define the radiation environment about the reactor; 2) determine more accurately the leakage radiation per watt of reactor power for both a low and high power reactor; and, 3) verify analytical techniques employed for predicting gamma ray and neutron environment. Measurements made about the reactor with various resonance and threshold neutron detectors and gamma dosimeters are illustrated. Calculated values are presented to give a comparison to the measured values. It was concluded that further neutron experimental data are required to reduce uncertainties in the calculations and to provide a better definition of changes in neutron leakage for low versus high power NERVA reactors. Also, gamma exposure rates are needed for a high power run in order to evaluate changes in external gamma levels for low versus high power."
"The development of the NERVA reactor has reached the point where it can be operated predictably for sustained periods of time. This success in mechanical and nuclear design has given to the control engineers the opportunity to design and experimentally verify improvements in reactor control. This paper presents a summary of the control systems used to test the early KIWI and NRX reactors. Using these reference controllers, designs to improve reliability and performance are discussed. These improvements include the use of limiter circuits to protect the nuclear subsystem from controller malfunctions and off-design operation of the system without resorting to reactor \"scrams\" and the ensuing system shocks. A pressure control has been added to the facility flow control loop to improve the accuracy of the propellant system control. To help insure that the system parameters are maintained within the proper and safe relationship with each other, the temperature controller is slaved to the pressure loop eliminating the requirement for time base programming of two variables and improving system protection against flow system failures. On-Off control of reactivity is also discussed showing the advantages of simpler control drum actuator systems. Finally, the performance of a controller operating on-off without the aid of an inner power control loop is presented."
"A short review is presented of investigations concerning clustering of multiple identical solid core nuclear engines in a polygon arrangment, for space propulsion. A unique aspect of nuclear engine clustering is the coupling between reactors due to the exchange of neutrons which propagate transients within the system. A method has been developed at Douglas for evaluating the reactivity coupling effect for various reactor types and cluster arrangements. The results are in good agreement with available experimental data. An analog model of a clustered nuclear propulsion system has been used for simulating the operating cycle, with emphasis on the inherent control offered by the presence of hydrogen in the reactor. Coupling effects during transients, including start-up, abnormal reactivity perturbations, and an engine-out event are the major points of interest."
"The environmental conditions existing at many of the points at which measurements are required in the ground testing of the NERVA reactors are beyond the capabilities of commercially available transducers. The measurement of the temperatures inside the reactor core was accomplished by pushing thermocouples to the high temperature limit of this sensing means. Tungsten and tungsten alloys have shown the capability of surviving a reactor test at these temperatures in the presence of carbon and high pressure hydrogen. Vibration and pressure transducers have been developed which can operate in an ambient of cryogenic hydrogen with internal temperatures of over 500°F degrees generated by gamma and neutron heating. The measurement of strain with gages subjected alternately to cryogenic and maximum high temperatures for this type sensor was accomplished with weldable gages. The problem of bringing electrical signals from the sensors in the severe environments to the data recording system was solved by using magnesium oxide insulated conductors in stainless steel sheaths. In future testing, measurements are desired at locations in the core where temperatures and radiation levels are even higher than those which have already been experienced. Development continues on thermocouples to measure 5000°R, on vibration and acoustic pressure transducers to operate at radiation heating levels of four watts per gram and on methods of connecting magnesium oxide insulated sheathed cable to strain gages bonded with ceramic cements."
"To enhance the gamma-ray sensitivity relative to that of fast neutrons, haxafluorobenzene (C6F6), was substituted for the primary solvent in a standard hydrogenous scintillator solution. The solutes used included p-terphenyl, α-NPO, PPO, POPOP, DM-POPOP and decafluorobiphenyl. Optical absorption and emission spectra were measured. The sensitivity relative to NE-211 was determined for Co60 radiation, 14 MeV neutrons and 2.6 MeV neutrons as a function of solute concentration ranging between 0.03 g/liter and 3.0 g/liter. Sensitivity measurements were carried out by measuring the total integrated light output from the scintillators. For all samples studied, the relative sensitivity to Co60 gamma radiation was greater than that for fast neutrons by factors ranging between 5 and 15."
"Temperature can be employed as a tool to manipulate the internal energy of the excited electrons on the border of the Fermi level of the excited atoms. As a result of temperature decrease, the occupation probability of the excited electrons, obeying the Pauli exclusion principle and Fermi-Dirac distribution function, increases exponentially with the third power of the absolute temperature. \"Size Effect\" in terms of the total number of the atoms in the crystal can also be elucidated. The equation derived for the relative light intensity of the excited NaI crystal, which is initimately related to the specific heat of the crystal, can be expressed as -H [ 12 π4/5 Nk(T/H)3]TfTi where Ti= initial temperature (° K) Tf final temperature (° K) T = absolute temperature of the crystal (° K) H = proportionality const. (empirical) = 1.88 x 10-9for NaI (3/4\" D. ×0.100\") N = number of Na atoms in the crystal sample k = Boltzmann's constant = 1.380 x 10-16 erg/° K H = Debye temperature of NaI (° K) Preliminary empirical data at liquid nitrogen temperature (77°K) of NaI (pure) crystal (3/4\" D. × 0.100\" thickness) indicate an 11-fold increase of the relative light intensity in general agreement with theoretical prediction. The exponential increase of relative light intensity further emphasizes the validity of the highly quantized nature of the energy levels, and that excited electrons in the crystals, or excitons (bound electron -hole pairs) are Fermions strictly obeying the Fermi-Dirac distribution function."
"The relative light output of thallium-activated cesium iodide was measured as a function of incident ion energy for ions of H, He, C, N, O, Ne, Ar, Kr, Xe, and Hg. Pulse height versus energy curves were obtained for protons from 1 to 100 keV, for helium ions from 10 to 100 keV, for carbon ions from 16 to 300 keV, for nitrogen ions from 40 to 200 keV, for oxygen ions from 20 to 200 keV, for neon ions from 30 to 200 keV, for argon and krypton ions from 60 to 200 keV, for xenon ions from 70 to 200 keV, and for mercury ions from 100 to 300 keV. In all cases studied here, the relation of the pulse height to incident ion energy is linear; the slope decreases as the mass is increased. The resolution (ratio of full width of the peak at half-maximum intensity to the peak central value) is approximately proportional to the inverse of the square root of the energy."
"Europium activated calcium fluoride a non-hydroscopic, relatively inert scintillation crystal, is discussed as an x-ray and charged particle detector. Pertinent physical properties, including refractive index, optical transmission, and fluorescent emission characteristics are summarized and mass absorption coefficients calculated from elemental cross sections are presented. Recent advances in growth techniques have resulted in single crystal ingots with rather high scintillation light yields and data obtained from these crystals are presented. These data include relative pulse heights, linearity of response from 6 Kev to 122 Kev, resolution as a function of photon energy, emission decay constant, response to alpha and beta particles, and the light output of CaF2(Eu) as a function of temperature from -60°C to + +80°c."
"Corrugated plates as spark counter electrodes provide well-defined discharge gaps with low operating voltages, analogous to the conditions more usually obtained in multiwire arrays. By inserting boric acid or a hydrogenous material into the grooves, sensitivity to thermal or fast neutrons may be obtained. For a more sensitive counter geometry, plastic strips have been mounted between the grooves of adjoining plates, and coated with boric acid for slow neutron detection. A cylindrical counter consisting of a heavy threaded aluminum rod mounted in a matching threaded aluminum tube has been constructed with a set of plastic boron-coated washers as neutron converters. Good sensitivity has been obtained with this device as a detector of reactor neutrons without appreciable interference from background gamma-rays."
"To help maximize the photon statistical accuracy and uniformity of pulse height measurements from a Cerenkov detector, coatings of high reflectance were made and procured. A number of various combinations of pigments and binders were tried. Reflectances of these and various ready-made coatings were measured as a function of wavelength. From these measurements, an effective absorptance was calculated assuming an S-ll response and Cerenkov spectrum for each coating. Comparison led to the conclusion that Alucer MC alpha alumina from France is the best of the pigments tried. This pigment ground with Sylvania PS7, a potassium silicate, produced coatings with absorptances between .03 and . 04, nearly as low as that of freshly smoked magnesium oxide and several times lower tharn those of special high reflectance commercial coatings."
"Knowledge of the angular distribution and absolute efficiency for gamma ray induced secondary electron currents is necessary in the development of fast radiation detectors, in dosimetry and in transient radiation effects studies. The angular distribution of the emergent forward electron current and the absolute quantum efficiency for 1.25 MeV gamma ray induced secondary electron current has been measured for elements having atomic number 6, 13, 29, 48, and 82. To ensure electron equilibrium, targets of thickness about equal to the extrapolated range of a 1.25-MeV photoelectron were used. The non-equilibrium thickness of one-tenth the extrapolated range was also used. A significant difference between the total target current and the total forward current was observed. This difference increased with atomic number and target thickness, as would be expected from results of electron backscattering experiments. Forward currents, calculated as a function of atomic number and target thickness, using Mar' s universal electron transmission formula and taking into account both Compton and photoelectric effects, agree well with experimental results."
"This paper describes apparatus for the direct measurement of the statistics of secondary electron emission, i.e. the frequency distribution in the number of secondaries produced by individual primary particles. The method is to accelerate the secondary electrons to about 50 keV and to focus them on to a cooled silicon semiconductor detector. Unless a correction is made for the adverse effect of backscattering of electrons from the detector (up to 37%) the resolution of the system does not reach the expected value. A method whereby these scattered electrons are returned to the detector by a magnetic field is described. The resolution of the system is then sufficient to distinguish clearly between the groups even when they contain as many as 15 electrons. Results and comparison with theory for secondary electrons produced by an alpha particle emerging from an aluminum foil are presented. Preliminary results with an image intensifier transmission dynode are also shown."
"A technique for measuring the yield and energy spectrum of secondary electrons generated by the passage of a fission fragment through a metal foil is described. The electrons are accelerated through an electrostatic potential V and focused on a solid state detector using a lens. A number N of low energy secondaries are thus detected as a pulse corresponding to energy NV in coincidence with the fragment. An integral energy spectrum is obtained by using a suppression grid. The technique also yields information about the response of solid state detectors to electrons in the energy region below 30 kev."
"In this work it is experimentally shown that in several cases useful information about the impact angle or the mass of the particles can be obtained from the rise time of the pulses supplied by semiconductor detectors. Moreover a method is indicated of correction of experimental results which allows for a comparison with the previously obtained theoretical values. (cfr. Nucl. Inst. and Meth. 35 93 (1965). A method for digitalizing the information is also given."
"When an ionizing particle enters a semiconductor surface barrier counter, the pulse height that is produced is determined by the particle energy, while the range of the particle affects the shape of the pulse. The voltage pulse therefore contains information about the particle type. In this paper a low energy α-p identification system by the pulse-shape discrimination is described. The characteristics of the optimal detector for this purpose, as well as the electronic circuitry, are given. Particles which normally give a difference in rise time of 3 ns (in the range of 15-20 ns) can be discriminated with the artifice of bombarding the back side of the detector (hole collection). The lowest discrimination level attainable is 2.7 MeV. The energy to form an electron-hole pair in semiconductor nuclear particle detectors is independent on the nature of the impinging heavy particle. Hence, a simple pulse height analysis does not allow the distinction between different particles, with energies that are either the same or slightly different. A first method of pulse-shape discrimination has been proposed by Amsel,l Funsten2 and Scheer.3 It is primarily based on the difference between the collecting time of the charges created within the depletion layer on the one hand, and outside this region on the other hand. In the latter case, the charges created must diffuse toward the depletion layer, which leads to a slow component in the observed rise time of the pulse. This method requires the use of a detector which is suitable to the problem under a study and its application is limited to a rather small range of energies. Moreover, the pulse heights are no longer proportional to the energies of the impinging particles. A second method of pulse-shape discrimination, using a dE/dx. E telescope, gives good results for high energy particles, but is not so successful at low energies. This is mainly due to the fact that it is difficult to produce very thin detectors. Finally, a third method uses the particular pulse shapes resulting from the collected charges created in the depleted region of a detector. Such a pulse-shape discrimination has been described by Ammerlaan4 for particles of energies from 10 to 25 MeV. Using the principle of this last method, we have set up an experimental arrangement, which allows the discrimination between protons and alphas particles with energies greater than 3 MeV. The detector that was used, was a surface barrier Au-Si N counter. Under these conditions, the main difficulties are: firstly, the weak signal amplitudes involved (a few mV), secondly, the speed of the pulses (10-20 ns), and finally, above all the small difference in the rise time of pulses due to protons and alphas particles."
"A composite surface barrier type diode for low energy electron detection has been under development. The unit is fabricated on an approximately one inch diameter silicon wafer with a 1/2 inch by 1/2 inch sensitive window on the active side of the unit. The back side of the unit, polished to a mirror finish, has two perpendicular sets of parallel evaporated conductors insulated from each other, used for readout. The location of the incoming particle is determined by the particular channels through which the readout is accomplished. Electrons have been detected on several channels of the device. Currently, work is proceeding to increase the number of working channels and later, the resolution of the device will be increased to accommodate 32 × 32 to 64 × 64 lines per 1/2 inch2 instead of the presently used 10 x 10 lines per 1/2 inch2 . The test equipment consists of an electron gun with an accelerating potential of up to 50 KV, baffles, and a movable sample mount, capable of being cooled, all enclosed in a vacuum envelope. This unit with its readout arrangement, provides a unique scheme capable of position determination of low energy electrons with the minimum number of readout channels and readout complexity. Combining the above mosaic with a UV photocathode and a suitable accelerating potential, it is anticipated that a tube could be constructed capable of sensing extremely low intensity UV flux, down to possibly a few photons per second."
"Various corrections are made to the above-named work affecting pages 2, 6, 7, 8, and Figures 2, A2, and 13."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Advertisement, IEEE."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"One of the factors influencing the properties of a pulsed beam is the growth of the charge bunches due to space charge forces. The growth along the direction of motion of the bunch degrades the time-structure of the pulsed beam and the growth transverse to the direction of motion de-focuses the beam. Although the space charge effect is only important at high current densities, it must be considered a limiting factor in any pulsed beam system. A general method of obtaining the field in the bunch to second order in v/c was developed. From this the motion of charges in the bunch was obtained by numerical integration for the case of a Gaussian distribution of space charge under the assumption that the charge distribution remains Gaussian. Solutions are presented in a dimensionless, graphical form which can easily be scaled for a particular problem."
"The particle identifier described is based on an approximation of Bethe's calculation, which is commonly used in nuclear reaction experiments. The outputs of two logarithmic amplifiers are added together and inverted, in an antilogarithmic circuit, to form the inherent product. The logarithmic amplifiers are operational amplifiers with two parallel, inverted, feedback silicon diodes. The logarithmic inverter, being symmetrical to the amplifiers, provides temperature compensation of the logarithmic elements. The circuit is designed to handle bipolar pulses of 1 μs width, like those obtained from common double line differentiated amplifiers. Curves showing actual identifier spectra are provided."
"A conceptual design for the rf system for the proposed ZGS modification will be presented. The system differs very little, in principle, from the present ZGS rf system. The primary engineering difference lies in the extendedpower output capacity of the amplifier. The parameters and characteristics of the accelerator are outlined and the electronic equipment in an rf system meeting those needs is described. The radiation environment of the amplifier and cavity will be discussed and methods preventing failure of the system suggested."
"The oscillator described in the text generates a frequency program which sweeps between 4 - 13.7 MHz with an initial df/dt of 172 MHz/sec and a final df/dt of 420 kHz/sec. This program is stable within 0.025% of the required value. FM noise on the order of 800 cps peak-to-peak appears on the first part of the program and reduces to less than 250 cps p - p near the end. A second rf output is provided which sweeps 1 MHz above the 4 - 14 output to be used with beam monitoring equipment employing a 1 MHz heterodyne technique. Both rf outputs employ AGC loops to maintain 2vpp across 125Ω."
"This paper describes an analog computer representation of the ring magnet power supply system of the Zero Gradient Synchrotron. Included in this representation are detailed simulations of a salient pole synchronous generator with a rectifier exciter, the generator voltage regulator, the twelve phase rectifier with grid control, and the ring magnet load. The performance predicted by the computer model is compared with test oscillograms. The satisfactory correlation realized demonstrates the accuracy of the simulation and the utility of the computer in studying similar systems."
"The current pulses for the ring magnet of the Zero-Gradient Synchrotron are supplied by the a-c generators of a large M-G set through four groups of rectifier units, which are operated alternately as power rectifiers and power inverters. The exchange of stored energy between the magnet and the M-G set limits the current swing taken by the driving motor from the incoming power supply. The pulsing is programmed by phase control of the rectifiers, which is effected by a variable d-c bias voltage. The power and control circuits are described, several design problems are outlined, and some operating results are given."
"A time-to-amplitude converter of the start-stop type is described. Automatic suppression of readout in the absence of a timely stop signal and an analog memory, which permits delay of readout to allow independent evaluation of a conversion, are two of its several novel design features. With full scale ranges of 0.1 usec to 30 usec, the instrument provides good linearity, stability and resolution over a wide range of operational conditions."
"An image intensifier tube of the vacuum tube type, sensitive to thermal neutrons has been developed and tested. The tube provides a bright visible output signal for an incoming thermal neutron image. Sensitivity, resolution, speed, contrast and relative response to radiation other than thermal neutrons all appear to be adequate for application to neutron imaging studies employing either reactor or non-reactor thermal neutron sources. The above characteristics, and applications of the system, are discussed."
"Instrumentation requirements at Argonne have necessitated the development of circuits capable of delivering megawatt-level pulses into various types of loads. The allowed delay time between the command signal and the output pulse has ranged from a few nanoseconds to a few microseconds and the allowed time jitter has generally been in the low nanosecond region. This report will consider some of the components and circuits and some of the system design concepts in current use at Argonne for high voltage-high current pulse instrumentation."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Advertisement, IEEE."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Spark chambers, scintillation and Cerenkov detectors are used extensively in high energy physics experiments. The potential usefulness of semiconductor detectors is being investigated. There is a need for detectors which will identify very high energy particles. The various types of spark chambers are briefly reviewed, including narrow gap, wide gap and filmless chambers. Applications of scintillation detectors are discussed, together with remarks on light pipes, localization of particles by time-of-flight, use of multiparameter pulse height analysis, hodoscopes and on-line computers. The use of Cerenkov counters is summarized. Several new types of detectors are considered which may be suitable for identification of particles of very high energy, hundreds of BeV, including transition radiation detectors and semiconductor devices."
"Detector applications are discussed for three fundamental areas of Biology and Medicine: Radiobiology, Photobiology and Nuclear Medicine. The detectors discussed include photomultiplier tubes, image intensifier tubes, scintillators, semiconductors and spark chambers. Examples of biomedical work in progress are given which have been made possible by the development of adequate detectors. The biological and medical significance of the work is discussed and some needed detector advances are pointed out."
"The high resolution obtainable with semiconductor radiation detectors has extended the scope of neutron activation analysis. Illustrations are nondestructive analysis of archeological artifacts, meteorites and terrestrial rocks. A quite different new technique is the counting of tracks produced by massive energetic particles in glasses and crystals, which has been used, for example, to date ancient uranium containing glasses. The use of scintillation and proportional counters, amplitude selection, coincidence and anti-coincidence techniques, and the Mossbauer effect are discussed for various applications from X-ray crystallography to the detection of neutrino induced reactions. The anisotropic behavior or channelling in silicon detectors has opened a new field of research on the effect of crystal orientation on energy loss of penetrating particles."
"This review paper discusses new applications of detectors in low energy nuclear physics and emphasizes semiconductor particle detectors where new developments have had an outstanding influence on the nuclear physics which can be done. The paper includes an account of: new limits of detector resolution; a new method for measurement of gamma ray lifetimes; gamma-gamma angular correlation studies with multiple scintillation detectors; kinematic energy shift correction with radial position sensitive detectors; an improved particle identification system with multiple detectors; and the application of germanium to measurements of long-range charged particles. The paper also discusses present state-of-the-art limitations and possibilities in areas of particular importance to nuclear physics."
"The parallel developments of a variety of spark-chamber schemes have produced many workable systems with success in experimental applications. Major efforts have developed several methods for direct electrical readout of spark-chamber data. These include the use of magnetic cores for direct digitizing of information from wire spark chambers, as well as the use of Vidicon cameras to observe sparks, and of current division and acoustic transit time in analogue devices to measure spark position. For such systems the on-line use of computers, and (or) the construction of significant electrical interfacing circuitry, are important considerations in efforts to maximize the event rate. Conventional spark-chamber systems using film to record data have benefited from the continued development of automatic off-line scanning and measuring systems. There are also many experiments that will use the unique capabilities of wide-gap spark and streamer chambers."
"A new family of photomultiplier tubes has been developed using silicon diodes and transistors as multiplying elements. For applications requiring low and medium gains these tubes offer several advantages over tubes utilizing ordinary dynode multiplication. These include ease of fabrication, mechanical ruggedness, reduced sensitivity to magnetic fields, and fast response. Diode structures have provided normal gains up to the theoretical maximum and have exhibited very short response times. In a few cases anomalously high diode gains have been observed, apparently as the result of induced avalanching near the diode front surface. Much greater gains have been obtained from various transistor structures with some sacrifice in the response time."
"A phototube has been developed with a semiconductor diode as the multiplier element. The tube has an electron gain of 1200 at 5 keV and has a linear output current in the 6-A range with a dynamic range between 107 and 108. A description is given of the fabrication of the shallow-diffused p-n junction diodes and their use in sealed envelopes with a cesium-antimonide photocathode. Also included is a discussion of the electrostatic lens for focusing the photoelectron beam to the window of the diode, and of the overall operation of the tube."
"In recent months a variation of the caesium antimony cathode has been developed with a quantum efficiency up to 30%. The characteristics of this 'super' S-11 cathode are compared with the caesium potassium bialkali cathode, the trialkali cathode and other variants of the caesium antimony cathode. The parameters dealt with are quantum efficiency, spectral response, dark current at various temperatures and the resolution for gamma rays of both low and high energy."
"A simple optical model has been used to describe the influence of light trapping on the performance of photocathodes. The model is based on the assumption that light trapping occurs as a result of total internal reflection in the faceplate-photocathode structure. The analysis based on the model predicts that successive light photocathode interactions are related through a geometric progression, and the ratios of light intensities and photoelectric yields associated with successive light photocathode interactions are equal to the common ratio of the progression. Experiments on S-1, S-11, and S-20 type photocathodes tend to confirm three predictions based on the analysis: that the logarithm of the photocurrent for a specific interaction is a linear function of the number denoting the interaction; that successive photocurrents and light intensities have the same ratio denoted K, and that the ratio of the total photocurrent to that of the first interaction approaches 1/1-K."
"The root-mean-square deviation in number of secondary electrons from a normal secondary emitter increases with the square root of the secondary-emission ratio. The constant of proportionality is slightly greater than unity. The pulse-height resolution of a multiplier is therefore improved by the use of a high-gain first dynode. The secondary-emission ratio from a porous potassium chloride transmission dynode has a much higher value than that from conventional dynodes. Ratios of fifty to a hundred are easily obtained. If the statistics of emission obeys the same laws as for conventional secondary emission, porous dynodes would be advantageous as the first stage of a photomultiplier for scintillation counters used for energy resolution. A multiplier incorporating a porous transmission first dynode was built and tested. The pulse-height resolution was poor compared with that of a normal photomultiplier. The pulse-height resolution can be expressed in terms of FWHM as follows: FWHM =2.35 =1/√Ne√1 + M where Ne is the average number of photoelectrons per pulse and M is the degradation of resolution by the multiplier structure. A conventional photomultiplier operated at normal gain has an M value in the neighborhood of 0.5. A multiplier with a normal first dynode of gain 30 would have an M value of 0.06. The porous-dynode multiplier with a gain of 30 for the first stage had an M value of the order of 4.3."
"The distribution in the number of photons in the light pulses from the phosphor of a five dynode transmission secondary electron image intensifier (TSEM) has been measured for single photoelectrons emitted from the cathode. This distribution reflects the distribution in the secondary electron multiplication in the dynode structure. The distribution is monotonically decreasing, but deviates significantly from a simple exponential. The noise distribution has also been studied and several different components distinguished. The effects on these components of cooling the cathode has been investigated."
"The paper attempts to relate the important parameters observed in channelled electron multiplication to the physical processes involved. Ionic feedback and the effect of channel geometry on it are discussed. Saturation effects occurring in straight channels and curved channels are described and the different pulse height distributions are contrasted."
"Peaked pulse height distributions are obtained from curved channel electron multipliers at high gain levels. They are caused by a gain saturating mechanism which limits the instantaneous output current from the multiplier. Various limiting mechanisms are considered. Experimental and theoretical evidence strongly supports the hypothesis that space charge limiting is the major cause of gain saturation."
"Controlled photomultipliers may be used for analysing modulation frequencies and other time parameters of radiation, which lie beyond the bandwidth or the time parameters of secondary emission systems. On the basis of the electron-optical characteristics of a control system for photomultipliers with two control grids, the properties to be expected are investigated for quasi-stationary operation and under consideration of transit-time effects. Due to the electron-optical properties of the control system, disturbing residual pulses are nearly made ineffective. It is experimentally shown that when using two controlled photomultipliers of the Type SKP-1 as coincidence elements at a distance of 1.5 ns of the gating intervals, the pulse rate decreases to less than 0.1 % (Fig. 12) compared with the rate at a time coincidence of the gating intervals. These values do not only depend on the photomultiplier, but also on the length of the light pulses and the period of the control voltage. The half-width of the coincidence between a light pulse and an electrical control pulse is smaller than 0.5 ns."
"A comparision of experimental data and theoretical predictions on time resolution limits of fast photomultipliers has been performed. XP 1020 photomultipliers have been used and measurements were done with a fast electronic system built in our laboratory. This system was tested with a Co60 source, the best time resolutions achieved over a period of two hours being 164 psec at f.w.h.m. A hydrogen discharge lamp has been built which produced short light pulses whose shape is determinated by a sampling method. Several light intensities were used to simulate different energy losses in plastic scintillators and time resolution measurements were performed for different threshold settings of the discriminator. The results of these measurements were compared to theoretical data calculated by means of a statistical model of the photomultiplier. Good agreement was found assuming a photoelectronic yield of one photoelectron per 2.5 KeV in Naton 136 plastic scintillator and a single electron response (SER) variance of 500 psec. The necessity of having more accurate data on photomultiplier parameters, mainly concerning the transit time jitter, was pointed out in order to have a better understanding of the photomultiplier's behaviour."
"This work deals with tests of the RCA C-70045 photomultipliers in a delayed coincidence apparatus. Illuminating the photocathode of the photomultiplier with constant height light pulses, resolving time measurements are performed. Prompt resolution curves are then measured using two photomultipliers of this type associated with two plastic scintillators. A time resolution of 1.85×1O-10s (f.w. h.m.) was obtained with Co60."
"The line-width for a number of NaI(Tl) scintillation counters for low energy gamma-rays has been examined in detail down to an energy of 6 KeV. Below 100 KeV, the photomultiplier accounts for about half the relative variance. For energies in the range 30-40 KeV there is a curious anomaly in the line-width, interpreted as being associated with the K-edge of iodine at 33.2 KeV. The surface preparation of the crystal has an effect on the line-width which differs markedly from region to region over the whole energy range below about 100 KeV."
"The thallium dimer center, which is a pair of thallous ions occupying nearest neighbor cation sites in NaI, is found to have a decay time of less than 7 nanoseconds. Analysis of the emission spectrum of a typical NaI(Tl) scintillation crystal indicates that the dimer centers are responsible for approximately 25% of the scintillation light although only a small part of this is rapid. It is proposed that energy of excitation migrates among the monomers and between monomers and dimers as a result of thermal excitation."
"By timing on the earliest component of the anode current pulse of the photomultiplier, the time resolution obtained with NaI(TI) at 300°K can be made somewhat superior to that reported for pure NaI at 77°K. For example, the time distribution for x rays (31. 6 keV) relative to the conversion electrons from a Cs137 source, shows a full width at half maximum of 1.6 nsec and a slope corresponding to a half life T4324091 = 0.63 nsec. This implies that τ /R is much smaller than commonly believed, where τ is the mean life of the scintillation and R is the average number of photoelectrons per event. This small value is not due to a small τ because only the usual slow component is observed when the shape of the scintillation is measured by a probability technique. Therefore R must be larger than expected; the observed time resolution requires at least 8.7 photoelectrons/ keV. This is consistent with the value 9.3 p.e./ keV inferred from the pulse-height resolution obtained with artificial light pulses which are equivalent in amplitude to a 662-keV event in NaI(Tl). It is also consistent with the value (9. 1 p.e./keV) obtained by combining the absolute efficiency of NaI(Tl) measured by Van Sciver and Bogart with the quantum efficiency that RCA lists for the bi-alkali photocathode."
"Excimer (excited dimer) formation occurs in all the aromatic hydrocarbon solvents used in liquid scintillators. The influence of this process on solvent-solute energy transfer has been studied for a model system: 9, 10-diphenyl anthracene (DPA) in 1, 6-dimethyl naphthalene (DMN), diluted by n-heptane (Hp). Data on the fluorescence lifetimes, spectra and quantum yields and the viscosity of DMN in Hp are used to analyze the results. It is found that the energy transfer rate parameters of the excited monomer and excimer differ, but that they are independent of Hp dilution. The influence of diffusion and solvent energy migration on solvent-solute energy transfer are discussed, and a migration mechanism involving excimer formation and dissociation is proposed."
"Response curves showing both short and long decay components are presented for fifteen commercially-available scintillators. Scintillator time-response functions for detection of 1.114-Mev gamma radiation (Zn-65) were measured over a range of three decades by employing a delayed coincidence technique. The apparatus, which was described in a previous paper, measures time intervals between the start of a gamma-induced scintillation event and the detection of a single visible photon. The region of the decay curve between 70 percent and 7 percent of the peak value is found to be very nearly exponential for most scintillators. The decay time for this region was determined for each scintillator to an accuracy of ±0.1 nanosecond."
"The scintillation response of NaI(Tl) crystals to an alpha emitter, americium 241, grown into the crystal lattice was investigated. Americium 241 was added to the NaI salt prior to meltdown and growth. As a result it was dispersed throughout the ingot volume. Several ingots were grown. Test data obtained from these crystals are presented. These data include alpha peak resolution, the gamma equivalent energy of the alpha peak, and the variation of relative pulse height and gamma equivalent energy with temperature from -50 degrees C to 150 degrees C. Also reported are the specific activity levels attained."
"The orientation dependence of the energy loss rates of energetic protons and alpha particles in thin silicon crystals was first reported at the last Semiconductor and Scintillation Counter Symposium two years ago. Since that time the effect has been extensively and systematically studied in several laboratories. Particle channeling, as the effect is now called, can be manifest as anomalous energy loss rate, anomalous range, anomalous charge production, anomalous radiation damage, anomalous scattering or anomalous reaction yield. These phenomena can affect appreciably the results obtained from the use of crystalline detectors for charged particles and can also affect general nuclear and atomic scattering measurements independent of the type of detector used. It is important therefore that the nuclear experimentalist be aware of the nature and causes of particle channeling and be familiar with the techniques to test for, eliminate or in some cases use the effect in his measurements."
"Significant fluctuations and broadening of the energy-loss spectrum are expected in certain cases of passage of charged particles through \"thin\" detectors. Experimental measurements of this phenomenon (by use of lithium-drifted silicon detectors) are in good agreement with the rigorous theory of Vavilov, as tabulated by Seltzer and Berger."
"The rise time of produced surface barrier detectors fort⋉-particles, fission fragments and conversion electrons was measured with and without over-voltage and compared with calculations. The detectors were produced from n-type silicon with resistivities in the range, 250 Ωcm to 9000 Ωcm. The best rise times, 𝑡 (0-63%), obtained up to now, are ≈0.8 ns for alphas (241Am) and 1.4 ns for fission fragments (252Cf) at high fields (system rise time, 𝑡≈0.6 ns included). The contribution of the plasma time, 𝑡 ₚ , due to the erosion of the ionisation tracks with their high carrier density by the field was studied in some more detail. 𝑡 ₚ vs. Eₘ (effective field), derived from the rise time measurements, seems to be a relatively pure exponential dependence, 𝑡 ₚ ⋊ k Eₘ-n, Por a given detector at fields greater than 500 V/cm (0.7 < n < 1.3). 'k' is a constant, dependent on particle type. With fission fragments from 252Cf the time jitter of correlated fragments in selected energy ranges was measured by irradiating two detectors in a wide angle (sandwich counter). A minimum jitter (F.W.H.M.) of 90 ps was reached for threshold detection. Zero crossing circuitry was also used for time detection to have an idea of the probable pulse shape jitter from fragments irradiating a detector under different angles. (Different orientation of the particle track with respect to the field). Such jitter seems to exist, also at relatively high fields."
"Published explanations for the rectification at metal-semiconductor contacts have ranged from those which attribute the establishment of the diffusion potential (Vd) entirely to work function differences to those which presume a major role for adsorbed gases and surface states. By making direct (differential capacitance) measurements of the barrier height (Vd) and E-I characteristics during fabrication, and as a function of ambient and surface treatment, it is shown that it is possible to rank the variables for the type of etched silicon surfaces commonly used for radiation detector fabrication in the following order of importance; (1) surface treatment, (2) adsorbed gases, (3) work function. It is also shown that the high reverse currents observed in Au-Si structures before exposure to air are directly correlated with a small Vd and that the Vd associated with various surface treatments agrees with the results of Buck. Preliminary work with liquid metal contacts supports the assumption of a secondary role for the work function. A theoretical model based on surface states and interfacial layers of finite thickness is presented to explain the behavior of metal contacts on etched silicon surfaces, including the fact that many metals (e. g., Al) have been observed to form both rectifying and non-rectifying contacts on etched Si."
"Internal carrier multiplication in a particle detector makes possible a reduction in the noise contribution of the following amplifier. The carrier multiplication, however, introduces additional noise from two sources. First, the statistical nature of the multiplication process gives rise to variations in the magnitude of the carrier multiplications. Second, as pointed out by Shockley, l the inherent statistical spatial fluctuations of impurity density within the space charge layer of a p-n junction lead to corresponding local fluctuations of the avalanche breakdown voltage Vb. At a bias below Vb this corresponds to local fluctuations of the multiplication factor M. The significance of both noise sources is evaluated. It is found that in general multiplication will improve the energy resolution only for the detection of low energy particles and for moderate values of M. The findings are illustrated by detailed calculations for a silicon junction having a breakdown voltage of 30 volts with a corresponding space charge layer thickness of 1.3 microns, appropriate for low energy particle detection."
"As part of an extensive design study for a cyclotron project containing a few hundred semiconductor detectors of different types, we have developed a new version of the (dE/dx) detector as used in (dE/dx × E) telescopes. This checker board counter delivers, besides the ¿E signal, also information about the position of the incident particles. With this detector the angular distributions of charged reaction products can be measured with high angular accuracy in a large solid angle, while slit scattering is eliminated. The checker board counter is essentially a dE/dx detector, which is subdivided in a large number of sensitive fields. These are obtained by placing counter electrodes in the form of parallel strips on each side of the detector in such a way that the back and front side patterns are perpendicular to each other, together forming a rectangular coordinate system. In our case a checker board counter with 88 sensitive fields of 1.37 × 1.37 mm2 maintaining an angular accuracy of 1 degree with an 88-fold increase in solid angle was chosen. Some aspects of the electronic read-out system of the detector are given."
"Fabrication techniques for producing lithium-drifted telescopes for space experiments have been developed. High resistance grooves have been obtained in lithium-drifted silicon detectors which can separate the detector into independent regions having small cross-talk as well as sharp spatial definition. This indicates the possibility of making integrated arrays of lithium-drifted detectors in a single substrate. The origin of leakage current and noise is not yet clear. The surface condition of the n-i junctions can be a contributing factor. In addition, there are indications that the surface barrier plays a prominent role in this problem. Results of environmental life tests show that the methods of detector fabrication and vacuum encapsulation are capable of providing detectors with the stability required for space experiments."
"A telescope system is described, in which coincidence or anticoincidence of associated alpha particle pulses from the H3(d,n)He4 reaction with pulses produced in the counters is required in order to reduce the background in investigations of 14 MeV neutron induced reactions. By using current pulse transformers with surface barrier semiconductor counters and fast electronics, coincidence resolving time between neutron induced pulses in the counters and associated alpha particle pulses of 1.6 ns is obtained, and the background is reduced by an order of magnitude. The same method may be employed for studies using lithium-drifted germanium counters, both with 14 MeV neutrons and neutrons produced in the H2(d,n)He3 reaction."
"The resolutions of semiconductor detectors were measured for protons, deuterons, 𝑎 particles and 4He+ ions at different energies between 20 keV and 5.5 MeV. We obtained limits of the Fano factor and evaluated the contribution of nuclear collisions to the half-maximum width of the 𝑎 particle peaks. The latter result is compared with LINDHARD and NIELSEN's calculations. Moreover we measured differences between electron-hole pair creation energies for the different particles."
"Numerous published examples of high temperature induced changes in the properties of semiconductors indicate that thermal degradation of charge carrier lifetime may be responsible for excess current and noise in diffused junction radiation detectors. By comparing the noise and current in surface barrier diodes made from silicon which had been subjected to a thermal cycle to the properties of similar diodes made from uncycled material, it is demonstrated that there can be severe degradation of the original material. The relationship between charge carrier lifetime and noise in semiconductor radiation detectors is discussed. Detailed information on changes in resistivity and etch pit density for both p- and n- type silicon from several manufacturers as a function of original resistivity and thermal cycle is presented. Information on excess diode current and noise is available only for the n-type samples. The results are consistent with the previously observed strong dependence on both maximum temperature and rate of temperature change. Large increases in diode current and noise have been observed for cycles with peak temperatures as low as 500°C."
"An estimate of the effective charge carrier lifetime can be obtained from a determination of the collection efficiency as a function of the transit time for charge carriers produced by incident short-range radiation in a p-i-n junction detector. The results of this method have the advantage of being independent of both the charge carrier mobility and the depletion depth of the detector. Effective lifetimes as low as a few microseconds (τe) for electrons produced by natural alpha particles have been observed in several 2 mm thick lithium-compensated silicon detectors operating at room temperature. No significant bias dependent windows which might cause misleading interpretation of the results were observed. Window effects were investigated by measuring the changes in pulse height of detector output signals initiated by natural alpha particles incident on the detectors at angles up to 45 degrees. The electron lifetimes were observed to decrease when the detector was operated at liquid nitrogen temperature. The short effective lifetimes that can occur in lithium-compensated silicon set a lower limit on the field strengths that must be maintained for efficient charge collection in thick p-i-n junction detectors. Effective hole lifetimes can also be obtained using this technique but with the present geometry of lithium-compensated silicon detectors this measurement is more difficult if short-range particles are used. The effects of charge carrier lifetime and amplifier pulse rise and fall times on the observed radiation-induced pulse shapes are discussed."
"During the study of P-I-N Ge (Li) junctions to be used for gamma-ray spectrometers, it appeared that the drift process of Li+ ions is strongly depending on the nature of the raw materials: in similar conditions, the maximum width of the compensated region can change from less than 1 mm to more than 5 mm. The influence on drift rate of several factors is studied : resistivity, nature of acceptors (Ga, In, Zn), lifetime of minority carriers, copper diffusion. Attention is given to lithium precipitation. Using different thermoelectric probes (described) the concentration of Li+ ions and the rate of precipitation can be measured. The effect of lithium precipitation on drift rate is discussed."
"The ratio of variance to yield was studied for γ-rays at energies up to 10.080 MeV in lithium-drifted germanium detectors. With detectors of thickness up to 14 mm this ratio was found to be as low as 0.13 /spl I.plusmn/ 0.02 at 122 and 356 keV. At energies between 1 and 10 MeV the ratio was found to be 0.16 ± 0.01, corresponding to a detector contribution of 4.8 /spl I.plusmn/ 0.1 keV (FWHM) at 10 MeV. Investigation of the dependence of the ratio of variance to yield on electric field intensity resulted in acceptance of F = 0.13 /spl I.plusmn/ 0.02 as the best experimental estimate of the Fano factor, and F = 0.16 is interpreted as an upper limit for γ-rays at energies between 1 and 10 MeV."
"Pulse shape distributions resulting from the interaction of γ-rays in germanium detectors were studied as a function of field intensity, γ-ray energy, and detector width. It was observed that at 2300 V/cm the initial rate of charge collection approached 10 nsec/mm. Due to a slow component the total charge collection was about 30% longer. At 1000 V/cm the collection time was somewhat longer, and at 250 V/cm it was considerably longer. These observations appeared to be independent of γ-ray energy in the range of 0.6 - 3 MeV, and detector widths of 3 - 11 mm. Events interacting near the center of the detector result in fast rising pulses and those interacting near one of the electrodes have a risetime which is approximately twice as long, thus giving rise to a distribution of pulse shapes. With low energy γ-rays all shapes occur with equal probability, but at higher energy the pulses tend to have a more uniform shape. Due to the spread in risetimes, signals from monoenergetic γ-rays do not cross a given pulse height level at the same time and therefore produce timing uncertainties. With a 1 cm detector timing uncertainties of more than 30 nsec have been observed at the 50% level, and less than 5 nsec at the 5% level. It therefore appears that for accurate timing of all signals, the timing discriminator should be set at the lowest level consistent with the system noise. The variations in risetime can also affect the energy resolution."
"Recent developments in producing thin-window Li-drifted germanium detectors have enabled us to investigate their response to 29- and 40-MeV protons. The window is of negligible thickness for long-range particles, probably about 0.5 μ, although a precise measurement has not been made. Resolutions of 28 and 44 keV (FWHM) were obtained on 29- and 40-MeV protons, respectively. After subtracting nondetector contributions, mainly the energy spread in the cyclotron beam, the resolutions obtained approach the theoretical limit for a Ge detector. A brief discussion of the response of a 0.5 cm thick, high-voltage Li-drifted silicon detector is also presented. Although extensive measurements have yet to be performed, these devices appear to be capable of a resolution approximately equal to that for Ge detectors for 29-MeV protons."
"A lithium-drifted germanium diode has been used for total-absorption detection of 59-MeV protons from the Oak Ridge Isochronous Cyclotron. The detector is 1.9 cm in diameter, has a depletion depth of 6 mm, is cooled to less than 85° K, and is sealed in an aluminum can with a 0.0026-in.-thick window. The diode was oriented so that the protons entered in a direction parallel to the detector junction. The energy resolution attained for 59-MeV protons was 150 keV (FWHM), uncorrected for energy straggling in windows of 76 keV, for approximately 60 keV of beam resolution, and for electronic noise. The peak-to-total ratio, determined by using an anticoincidence collimator, was as high as 0.94, which is comparable to 0.96 observed elsewhere for NaI. When the collimator was moved along a line parallel to the junction and perpendicular to the beam, the energy resolution and peak-to-total ratios remained constant within the experimental accuracy over a 10-mm scanned distance. As the collimator was moved in a direction perpendicular to the junction and toward the depleted material, the peak-to-total ratio decreased, as was expected from multiple scattering calculations. When the diode was connected by a 125-ohm terminated coaxial cable to a fast amplifier, a rise time of 4-5 nsec was observed. Since the protons entered the detector parallel to the junction, pictures obtained show the superposition of nearly rectangular current pulses arising from hole and electron collection. The length of the pulses is correlated with the point of incidence of the collimated beam."
"Large volume (16-54 cm3) germanium lithium drift diodes coaxially drifted with one open end have shown excellent performance as γ-ray spectrometers. However limitations have been found in the coincidence resolving times possible with short coaxial diodes due to large variations in charge collection times which result from the non-uniformity of the electric field - especially in the closed end portion. Leading edge time distributions as a function of axial position were made on a longer (6.6 cm) coaxial diode with one open end using 511 keV γ-rays. In an attempt to improve the electric field uniformity, the closed end was cut off to produce a double open-ended detector 4.2 cm long, and a single open ended detector 2.1 cm long. Both diodes were excellent spectrometers. In the 4.2 cm detector (C = 55 pF) the full width at tenth maximum W0.1 of the leading edge time distributions varied from 34 nsec to 19 nsec due to a large variation in core size along the axis. In the 2.1 cm detector (C = 34 pF) W0.1 varied from 17 nsec in the coaxial region to 30 nsec at the closed end. A 6.1 cm long coaxial diode was made with two open ends, a circular crosssection, and a circular core cross-section nearly uniform along the length. W0.1 of the leading edge time distribution for this improved diode was 19 nsec for the whole detector, and varied by less than 2 nsec from end to end."
"Large volume Ge(Li) detectors have been used in a γ-γ coincidence arrangement employing two Ge(Li) detectors. The first part of this paper reports the results of studies of the timing properties of planar and coaxial diodes and the time resolution curves that can be obtained. For two cylindrical coaxial diodes the full-width at half-maximum of the time resolution curve was 14 nsec for 511 keV γ-rays. The second part of the paper describes the application of the detectors in γ-γ coincidence experiments. The coincidence counting rates are limited by the total singles counting rates that can be tolerated without excessive loss of energy resolution. Results are shown illustrating the application of a Ge(Li)-Ge(Li) coincidence arrangement to a complex γ-ray spectrum and the ability of this technique to reveal new information on γ-γ cascades."
"A calculation of the resolving time one can obtain by the delayed coincidence method with a P.I.N. detector, is developed. The results show that submillimicrosecond time resolution can be obtained with a 2mm thick detector. Experimental results lead to 1.1 ns (FWHM) with a Co60 source and 2.8 ns with a Na22 source. The broadening of the prompt spectrum is explained in term of the electronic system noise."
"Large-volume, lithium drift germanium and silicon diodes have been fabricated using the \"coaxial\" configuration and their diode and γ-ray spectrometer characteristics investigated at liquid nitrogen temperatures (770K). Techniques are described which have been used to drift volumes up to 40 cm3 from 10 ohm-cm, Ga-doped germanium and 22 cm3 from 1100 ohm-cm, B-doped silicon. Drift data, diode d.c. conditions for best spectrometer operation, and experimental resolutions for Co-57,60 source γ-rays are tabulated for Ge diodes, 14.5 - 40 cm3 active volume, and other sections taken from these. γ-ray spectra up to 17 MeV γ-ray energy are presented for typical diodes Resolutions (FWHM) of 2.0, 3.4 and 7.3 keV on the full-energy peak of 122, 1173 and 2754 keV γ-rays have been obtained from a 14 cm3 Ge(Li) diode using a cooled, FET input stage preamplifier. The performance of a coaxial Ge(Li) diode with a guard-ring construction for high bias voltage operation is described. Coaxial Si(Li) diodes primarily intended for application as γ-ray pair spectrometers have been drifted to 22 cm3 active volume. The spectral responses to 122 and 2754 keV γ-rays from a smaller, 11.5 cm3 Si(Li) diode are given. Problems in drifting \"single-ended\" coaxial Si(Li) diode structures are discussed."
"Practical drift depths for Ge LID detectors are limited to less than 15 mm so that large-volume detectors have a relatively high capacitance because of their increased junction area. A fabrication technique has been developed and evaluated which significantly reduces this capacitance by increasing the effective thickness of the intrinsic material between the junctions and decreasing the junction area. In making a large-volume, low-capacity detector, a conventional Ge diode is first drifted to a depth greater than 1 cm. The original junctions used for the drifting operation are then removed and new junctions are applied to the compensated material in a more favorable geometry. A number of these detectors have been fabricated with a contact structure consisting of a gold surface-barrier P-type contact and a diffused-lithium N-type contact. The diodes that were made had an active volume of 4.5 cm3 and a final capacity of less than 2 pF as compared to their original capacity of 9 pF. The detector performance with a preamplifier and a source confirmed the improvement in resolution that would be expected for this decrease in the diode capacitance without a significant reduction in the active detector volume. This technique may be extended to larger detectors and would make possible the fabrication of a 30-cm3 Ge LID detector with a capacitance less than 5 pF."
"Improved performance of germanium detectors, prepared by use of lithium-drift techniques, was obtained by means of measurements of diode properties and surface resistivity during preparation. A compensated thickness of 16 mm was obtained for several detectors in a single drift operation. For these and other detectors the provision of a negligible (i.e. < 10μ) dead layer on one side allowed the detector to be useful from 10 keV to 10 MeV. An electric field intensity of 50 to 175 volts/mm was sufficient to give satisfactory energy resolution (i.e., 3.0 - 4.5 keV @ 1.333 MeV) and full counting efficiency for detectors of thickness up to 16 mm. The preparation of 2 - 3 cm thick detectors by use of a dual-drift procedure, wherein two adjacent diode structures are caused to merge, is described. The joint use of coaxial and planar techniques, and their relative advantages, are discussed. It is concluded that the preparation of germanium detectors of area 25 cm2 and thickness 1.5 - 3.0 cm is feasible with present techniques, but limited by the quality of the crystals utilized. The results of application of these detectors to muonic x-ray studies, neutron-capture gamma-ray experiments, charged-particle induced reactions involving gamma rays, and isotopic analysis of materials such as uranium are presented. An advantage of a reduction in sensitive volume for some measurements at energies in the range 5 - 10 MeV is shown."
"Hermetically sealed Ge(Li) diodes for γ-ray spectroscopy have now been manufactured and under study for approximately two years. During this time, 'planar' drifted encapsulated diodes have been increased in size from 2 cm2 × 2 mm deep (0.4 cm3) to ˜ 8 cm2 × 10 mm deep (8 cm3). Coaxially drifted diodes of 25 to 30 cm3 volume have also been encapsulated. Encapsulation details of both types of detector are given, together with performance characteristics. Measured intrinsic full-energy peak efficiency curves are given for four detector sizes. For an 8 cm3 planar diode this efficiency is 1.1% at 7 cm for 1 MeV γ-rays. The corresponding efficiency for a 27 cm3 coaxial diode is 3.1%. Voltage ratings of 1000 V/cm with leakage currents ⩽ 1 nA at operating voltage are achieved. Resolutions of 3.4 and 5.5 keV (fwhm) at 1173 keV γ-ray energy have been obtained with a 2 cm3 (5 mm deep) planar diode and a 27 cm3 coaxial detector respectively. Mounting and general application details are discussed."
"While it has generally been stated that lithium-drifted germanium detectors must be operated at liquid-nitrogen temperature for optimum performance, no systematic investigation to prove or disprove this statement has been reported. The closest experiment is that of Tavendale who, however, only investigated the resolution as a function of temperature for a monoenergetic low-energy gamma-ray source. We have investigated the resolution and efficiency of two lithium-drifted germanium detectors, approximately 20 mm in diameter and 3 mm thick, as a function of detector temperature in the range from 85° to 160°K. Gamma-ray energies ranged from 203Hg (279 keV) to 60Co (1333 keV). We found that, contrary to the results of Tavendale, the resolution of the detectors had a pronounced peak at about 105°K. The origin of this peak is, at present, unknown, but is not due to changes in diode capacitance or leakage current. Since both detectors were cut from the same germanium ingot, it is possible that these results are peculiar to these detectors. It is therefore proposed to repeat the experiment with a detector produced from a different germanium ingot, as soon as such a detector becomes available."
"Calculations of the intrinsic double-escape peak efficiency of cylindrical Li-Ge detectors for parallel beam of gamma rays ranging in energy from 1.5 to 10 MeV, were carried out using a computer code based on the Monte-Carlo method. The detectors considered are 18 mm. in diameter with 2, 3.5, 4, 5, 8 and 10 mm. depletion depth. Comparison is made with the experimental results of Ewan and Tavendale1 for a 18 × 3.5 mm. detector."
"The unpredictable variations in lithium drift rates of various commercially available germanium crystals have made the production of germanium gamma-ray detectors rather difficult. Some asreceived germanium ingots have shown diffusion constants D reduced by nearly three decades. Because drift time varies inversely with D, the time required to drift such germanium to make large-volume detectors can become too long to be practical. The drift rates and lithium precipitation kinetics of such germanium were investigated to determine if they were correlated. We have examined the lithium precipitation kinetics in 24 samples cut from 13 different germanium crystals covering a wide range of drift rates. These samples were cut from both zone-leveled and pulled crystals from three vendors."
"The minority-carrier drift mobility of driftable and nondriftable germanium was measured in an effort to determine the presence of an impurity which reduced the lithium drift mobility but did not affect the resistivity and lifetime of some of the material used to make lithium-drift detectors. The measurements were made at 77°K where the mobility is limited by impurity scattering rather than lattice scattering. The mobility was measured as a function of temperature for five samples of Ge which had varying lithium drift mobilities. Good correlation was found between the driftability of the material and the minority-carrier drift mobility at 77°K. Estimated impurity levels in the range of 1014-1015/cm3 apparently reduce the effective lithium mobility, while impurity concentrations greater than 5 X 1015 make the Ge unsuitable for making lithium-drift detectors. A mass-spectrometer analysis indicated that the impurity apparently has a mass number less than Mg; oxygen is a likely possibility due to its known behavior with Li in silicon."
"The problem of devising energy-dependent detectors for the ultra-relativistic region is discussed from the point of view of thin film devices. Ionization loss, secondary electron emission, and transition radiation are proposed mechanisms for producing an energy-dependent signal from thin films."
"Radioisotope cameras are relatively new instruments for imaging the distribution of γ-ray or positron-emitting isotopes in vivo. They produce pictures similar to those made by medical radioisotope scanners, showing the uptake of tracer compounds in tumors and organs. Cameras can produce pictures in much less time than scanners because of their higher sensitivity and their ability to view all parts of the subject continuously. In the scintillation camera described here, an array of 19 multiplier phototubes view a single, large, thin, sodium iodide crystal. From the relative amount of light seen by each phototube when a scintillation is produced, the position is determined in two dimensions and it is displayed as a point flash of light on an oscilloscope. Pictures are obtained by taking a time exposure of the oscilloscope screen. Pinhole or parallel multichannel collimation is used with γ-ray emitters, and coincidence techniques are used with positron emitters."
"The authors formerly described a high efficiency, gas filled device for the visualization of X and γ sources distributed in a Volume 1, 2, 3. Latest work in this connexion has revealed great further scope: in first approximation, there does not appear to be any limit to the particle rate that can be recorded. If the density of the particle flux is high, the grid-anode gap field permits the creation of electron avalanches only, and the light signal is amplified by a conventional image intensifier, whereas for a lower flux density, the higher field permits sparking. Spark energy is reduced and controlled by an original device: the anode is a conductive coating of several 103 to 105 ohms per square and limits instantaneous current, while an electronic circuit triggered by initiation of the spark discharges the grid-anode capacitance. We have obtained images from avalanches with exposures ranging from a fraction of a second to several seconds and from sparks with an exposure of up to 30 minutes or more, using radioactive collections of X-emitters with energies of 27 and 70 keV. Impact localization can be recorded with an accuracy of a few tenths of a millimeter, and the image size may be as much as thirty centimeters or more."
"Ring images produced by a lens from C჎renkov radiation have been observed by using an image-intensifier system. As a result of the passage of a single fast particle through the Cerenkov radiator, a photograph of the output of the system shows a ring image defined by some 12 to 26 spots, the precise number varying according to the conditions. The calculated number, and distribution in number, of spots is shown to be in agreement with the experimental results. A least squares method is used to fit a circle to the set of points defining a ring. The precision in fitting is such as to give a standard deviation in measurement of particle velocityß(= v/c) of 2 x 10-4 and in measurement of particle direction of ~5 milliradians. The least squares method used is of an unorthodox nature and its performance is checked by a simulation programme in which points representing a ring are generated by a computer. It is found that the accuracy in determining ring radius for the experimental rings is similar to that for the computer-simulated ones."
"The products of neutron reactions that give rise to heavy charged particles will form damage trails in insulating materials. These damage trails can be selectively etched so that the resulting tracks can be imaged with an optical microscope. Track counting is used as the basis for neutron measurement. Applications will be discussed, e.g., the measurement of homogeneity in nuclear fuel."
"A low-cost detector 18' x 2' x 5\" has been developed for an underground cosmic ray neutrino experiment. The liquid employed is a high-clarity mineral oil-based mixture, and light is guided to the ends of the detector by total internal reflection at the surface of the Lucite container. Signals from 2 five-inch photomultipliers at each end give energy and event location for single penetrating particles, with relatively good discrimination against natural radioactivity by virtue of the substantial thickness. Data are presented on the response function of the tank, energy resolution, rates and thresholds. A number of modifications that have been tried are also described."
"A low-speed modification of the chronotron has been adapted to recording data from an array of 144 photomultiplier tubes. By noting the kinds of co. nbinations of signals expected for the various physical events of interest a relatively simple pulse position code is devised to display the data. This display gives addresses and amplitudes of signals for a composite event and in addition permits us to determine whether the waveforms are bona fide in nature or spurious. Some degree of redundancy may also be incorporated into the system."
"This paper describes one of two methods employed to record the events from the large multiple scintillation detector array described in the preceeding paper. The detector itself and the other recording scheme are reported at this Symposium in two papers by M. F. Crouch, et. al. These should be referred to for a more complete understanding of the overall system. Some of the data and its significance are discussed in reference 1. The principle of the system is to store pulses, which occur simultaneously in up to 144 phototubes, in analog form as charges on individual capacitors. Subsequent to the actual detection of the event, the charges on the capacitors are measured and their values digitized in sequence. The resulting numbers which represent the original pulse heights are stored in serial fashion in the memory of a pulse height analyzer. The analyzer is then printed out and the system made ready for a new event."
"Recent development of pre-amplifiers employing field-effect transistors have made it possible to achieve energy resolutions less than one kilovolt (FWHM) with lithium-drifted germanium gamma-ray detectors. This coupled with the availability of 4096-channel ADC's makes it possible to measure gamma-ray energies to better than 1 part in 104 over a reasonable energy range. To realize this degree of precision it has been necessary to re-examine all elements of a laboratory pulse-height analysis system. This includes linear amplifiers, ADC's, test pulse generators, and data storage and analysis techniques. To establish the limits of present state-of-the-art equipment for precision gamma-ray spectrometry, an extensive evaluation has been made of amplifiers, threshold amplifiers, gain stabilizers, and 4096-channel ADC's. Several noise sources exist that are amplitude and rate dependent, thus affecting energy resolution as a function of gamma-ray energy. These effects make it difficult to obtain accurate experimental measurements of the Fano factor for germanium. Recent measurements of the Fano factor obtained with a 4096-channel ADC, are presented. Techniques are described for the measurement of system linearity, stability, and dynamic performance of spectrometers under changing experimental conditions. The evaluation of analogue-to-digital converters has included their use both with conventional \"hard-wired\" pulse analyzers and programmed data processors. Precision pulse generators, methods for measurement of system linearity, and computer programs for data analysis developed to obtain precision values for energies and intensities of gamma rays in complex pulse-height spectra are described. Data are presented to demonstrate the precision which can be obtained with equipment presently available."
"This paper presents the design considerations and experimental characteristics of a transistorized charge-sensitive preamplifier that has a noise line-width significantly lower than that of the best vacuum-tube preamplifiers, and a high gain-bandwidth product which allows stabilization of the charge gain against detector capacitance fluctuations over a wide range of pulse-shaping time-constants. The open-loop gain of both the input charge-sensitive section and the output cable driver section is sufficiently stabilized against temperature fluctuations by compensating elements to allow the feedback capacitor in the charge-sensitive section to control the gain drift of the entire preamplifier. The input device is a new type of n-channel field-effect transistor (2N3823) that has excellent gain characteristics and an unusually low noise output. The measured gain and noise characteristics of the device are presented in this paper as functions of frequency (500 Hz to 750 kHz), temperature (-200°C to + 25°C), and bias point. The maximum signal-to-noise ratio for the best devices occurred when the case temperature was about -110°C. The charge-sensitive input section of the preamplifier has a midband open-loop voltage gain of about 3700, a low-frequency 3-db point less than 100 Hz and a high-frequency 3-db point at about 500 kHz. This high gain-bandwidth product (1.85 GHz) was obtained by developing a new type of input cascode circuit. The new circuit employs a single-stage shunt fedback current amplifier connected between the first and second stages of the conventional cascode circuit."
"The use of a 2N3823 or a 2N3819 (the Silex equivalent of the 2N3823) field-effect transistor (FET) has led to the design of an improved charge sensitive preamplifier. The amplifier has provisions for paralleling FET's in the input stage which gives considerable improvement in the resolution vs capacitance slope over single FET's. Measured resolution of the amplifier temperature was 0.53 keV(Ge) + 0.046 keV/pF with a single FET in the input stage and 0.91 keV + 0.023 keV/pF with four paralleled FET's in the input stage. Cooling the FET's to 140°K gave 0.36 keV (Ge) + 0.030 keV/pF with a single FET and 0.62 keV(Ge) + 0.017 keV/pF with four paralleled FET's. Theoretical computations of the expected resolution gave excellent correlation with the results from the measured circuit."
"A charge-sensitive preamplifier has been built employing a pair of varactor diodes in a novel parametric amplifier configuration as the first amplifying element. The circuit consists of a parametric subharmonic oscillator, pumped at about 130 Mc included in a negative feedback loop. Input charge signals perturb the oscillator tuning. The feedback circuit prevents significant change in the oscillator amplitude by supplying an approximately equal, opposite charge to the input circuit through a small feedback capacitor. The following noise performance, referred to germanium detectors, has been obtained. Temperature FWHM Slope 300°K 1.40 keV 20 ev/pF 77°K 0.64 keV 13 ev/pF"
"Network analysis and synthesis techniques were applied to design a new experimental nuclear pulse amplifier whose performance is superior to any other similar type of amplifier. The amplifier is designed to closely approximate desirable overall transfer functions. The instrument consists of broadband, fixed-feedback amplifiers and a novel passive, linear lumped-element network. The gain of the amplifier is adjusted by passive, constant-impedance attenuators. The variation of crossover time with attenuator position (for both fine and coarse controls) is less than ±0.5 nsec, and it is not necessary to make separate trimming adjustments for each attenuator setting. The pulse-shaping network yields a unipolar output pulse having a monotonic return to the base line and having a theoretical signal-to-noise ratio superior to that of any published lumped-element network, and having minimum pileup distortion for a given noise-corner time-constant. The bipolar pulse has nearly equal-amplitude positive and negative peaks, but with no tertiary overshoot. No delay lines are used. Minimum pile-up distortion and excellent recovery from overload are achieved by the use of polezero cancellation techniques throughout the system. This amplifier was evaluated for overload recovery, crossover walk, pile-up distortion, common mode rejection, and noise-to-signal ratio."
"Exploitation of the high resolution and wide energy range of semiconductor radiation detectors imposes severe demands on the linearity and stability of the associated A.D. C. system. A study has been made of various alternative conversion and stabilization schemes with particular reference to their use in a computer-based data gathering system. As a result of this study a 4096 channel 50 Mc/s servo-stabilized ramp converter has been developed. Stabilization is based on a bang-bang servo scheme, the ultimate reference being a mercury double pulse generator. A feature of the design is the ability to dial the energies defining the upper and lower limits of the range of interest. In this way the converter acts as its own window amplifier, always spanning the designated range with 4096 channels. In the design particular attention has been paid to factors affecting the system linearity. Notable among these has been the importance of transient thermal effects in the transistors, and the window expansion scheme which eliminates the problems associated with biased-off amplifiers."
"Studies of low-yield nuclear reactions such as (He3, He6) or (He4, He8) require definite identification of about one interesting particle in the presence of 106 to 107 reaction product particles. Conventional ΔE-E identifier systems are of limited value in these experiments as a small fraction of the abundant reaction particles produce ΔE signals which deviate considerably from their normal value. The resulting false identification signals cause a general background in the identifier output spectrum which interferes with the peak due to interesting particles. In the improved identifier two ΔE detectors are employed; each time a particle passes through the counter telescope two identifications are made, each using one of the ΔE signals. If they do not agree with each other within prescribed limits (due to one of the ΔE signals deviating from normal) the event is completely rejected. Fast coincidence and pile-up rejector techniques are used to reduce the effects of chance coincidences between unrelated detector signals and a fourth counter is used to reject high energy particles which pass completely through the telescope. Details of the instrument and its performance in several experiments are given, and the general problems in this type of work are also discussed."
"In many experiments involving charged-particle spectroscopy using semiconductor detectors, the rate at which data can be obtained is frequently severely limited by large background fluxes of gamma rays and electrons. While the use of detectors whose sensitive depth is limited to that necessary to stop the charged particle of interest can substantially reduce the background contributions, pulse pile-up effects can obscure the desired spectral information through either accidental coincidence between an electron pulse and a heavy charged-particle pulse or through the simultaneous detection of several electrons. These pile-up effects can be minimized by the use of fast current-mode amplification which reduces the system resolving time essentially to the collection time of the detector, and a linear gate to permit integrating the eharge due to the selected events only. While such systems do not exhibit the excellent resolution of low noise charge-sensitive amplifiers, alpha particle line widths of 60 keV have been observed in the presence of electron fluxes as high as 108 electrons/cm2/second. Several examples of aceelerator, reactor and neutron spectroscopy experiments are given."
"The response time of the signal processor is examined from the standpoint of the \"trade-offs\" that can be made by the experimenter in defining the data accuracy in terms of the signal processor recovery time, observed counts, standard deviation, and required number of data scaler bits. Curves are shown which for different values of recovery time, the true event rate can be determined at an observed count rate. Other curves show the relationship between data scaler bit levels and resultant data accuracy at different standard deviations."
"The report covers the application of silicon semiconductor detectors to a wide-range, gamma-ray doserate meter using the detectors in a pulse counting mode. It reviews pertinent circuit and detector characteristics that establish the doserate ranges that can be covered, the energy dependence to be expected from both large lithium-drifted detectors and very small silicon junction diodes, and finally the stability requirements imposed on the electronics by the pulse mode of operation. Methods of tailoring the photon energy response of semiconductor detectors are reviewed. Particular attention is given to the effect on design of amplifier and detector noise and variations in the noise level. One example of a combination of detectors to cover the doserate range from 0.2mR/h to 2000 R/h is shown. The report supports the conclusion that it is practical to make a survey meter, using silicon semiconductor detectors, that covers both the health physics and high doserate ranges of interest in military radiac design."
"In many nuclear physics experiments, particularly those based on coincidence methods, the active descriptors are distributed over a relatively wide field. Associative storage has been suggested as a means of processing this type of data. However whether hardware or software is used, the cost per descriptor stored is many times higher for associative analysis than for conventional analysis. Costs may be reduced by taking advantage of the fact that in many experiments information occurs in groups or 'clusters' of channels. This is achieved by the Zone Selection technique. The experimental field is divided into zones of adjacent channels and it is then only necessary to store the addresses of the active zones in the associative mode, the individual channels within the zone being defined conventionally. The overall system is then equivalent to conventional analysis with digital windows automatically set to the active zones while no storage space is used for inactive regions of the spectrum. A general formula has been derived for the performance of any system in relation to the zone and cluster sizes. The technique has been applied to both hardware and software systems."
"A hardware analyser based on the zone selection technique has been constructed. It has an input dead time of 10 μ.seconds and will analyse 4096 channels, in 256 zones of 16 channels from a million channel field. The input 20-bit descriptor is divided into the 16 most significant bits to form the Zone Code, specifying the zone within the field, and the 4 least significant bits to form the Channel Code, specifying the channel in the zone. Zone Codes are held in a 256 word 16-bit transfluxor contents addressable store which enables the storage location occupied by any Zone Code to be found in a single operation. The methods of loading, comparing and reading out codes are described. Each location in the transfluxor store is allotted a 16 word block in a conventional 4096 word 20-bit core store. The specific location in this block at which the count is to be stored is specified by the Channel Code. The live display includes map, section and an 'isometric' projection which may be rotated or tilted. This latter display, though geometrically accurate to 2%, uses simple circuitry with linear potentiometers. Both display and data collection may be confined to selected areas of the data field. In the limit this area may be reduced to 64 × 64 channels giving a total analysis of 4096 adjacent channels within a field of, for example, 1024 × 1024 channels. Automatic selection of descriptors on the basis of counts accumulated is also provided."
"Use of the zone selection technique has allowed efficient use of a small computer (PDP8) as an associative analyser. The 4096 word 12 bit store operates associatively with 128 zones of 16 channels. This total of 2048 counting channels, each of 18 bits, means that 75% of the store is directly occupied with experimental data. The input 20 bit descriptor, giving a field of 1,048,576 channels, may be compounded from one, two or more parameters provided that the bits of the full descriptor are in approximate order of significance. The most significant 16 bits form the zone descriptor which is disposed in a zone descriptor store by a quasi-hash routine which also reduces the word length to 12 bits. Each zone accepted is allocated a 16 word block in the counts store which is identified by a start address held in the adjacent location in the zone descriptor store. Individual channels are then selected by the remaining 4 least significant bits of the full descriptor. A small input buffer gives a pair resolution of 10 μsec, while the mean input data rate is more than 10,000 descriptors per second. Live map and isometric displays are incorporated, and both display and data collection may be confined to selected areas of the data field. Separate programs, which may be introduced without disturbing the stored data, allow printout and other facilities."
"At the end of a high resolution measuring chain, data are stored in the computer-associative megachannel analyzer For sorting of data, two basically different techniques may be used: tree search or hash coding. Features of the two techniques are compared. A new technique - the standard analysis of parameter X and associative analysis of parameter Y - is presented. This procedure allows efficient use of a small computer as a hybrid analyzer. The memory contains three lists, called X, Y and count. X digits of a descriptor are used to directly address the X list, where the pointer to the associative Y list is found. Using this technique, more than 80% of the memory space can be devoted to the count list. The procedure is useful for spectra which present continuous \"mountains\" in the X-Y field."
"Some methods by which the applicability of the magnetostrictive delay line readout for wire spark chambers can be extended for use in magnetic field regions are described. For fields up to 20 kG iron-cobalt alloy wires with either a coil or a piezoelectric receive transducer can be used. A different method involving the generation of acoustic pulses in non ferromagnetic wires is described. With a piezoelectric receive transducer this delay line is essentially unaffected by magnetic fields."
"The invention of the magnetostrictive spark chamber has created problems in detecting, digitizing, and storing the data from arrays of such chambers. These arrays are expected to vary widely in size from one experiment to another. The system of electronics developed for such use should be easily adapted to arrays of different size, and economically feasible for use with the largest arrays. Such a system is described. The basic components of the system are a preamplifier, timing discriminators, and digitizing and storage electronics. The preamplifier, designed to be mounted at the spark chamber, uses an integrated-circuit operational amplifier. It amplifies and clips the pulses from the transducer. The zero-crossing timing discriminator uses a tunnel diode in a cock-trigger circuit. The timing characteristics of the discriminator with expected variations in input pulse shape are described. The digitizing of spark location is accomplished with start/stop scalers operating with a 20-MHz clock. Scalers of 12-bit capacity can be used with chambers as large as 1 meter on a side. The digitizing and storage electronics has been designed in modular form. The number of channels (transducers) and the number of sparks per gap can be expanded or contracted as required by a given experiment. The system can be used with any of three modes of connecting the transducers: parallel, series, or parallel-series. The use of integrated circuits has led to simplifications in the design and economies in production."
"Semiconductor devices were exposed to high intensity 1.6 MeV electron pulses. Glass diode packages and integrated circuit chips were broken. However, the failure occurring at the lowest radiation doses is lead-chip separation at the point where the lead is bonded to the chip. Statistical experiments show that the damage is caused by energy absorption in the device, and, assuming a Weibull failure distribution, give the probability of failure as P = 1 - exp[-0.00708 (㩣.15)], where P is the probability that a given gold-silicon bond will fail when exposed to dose Φ, and Φ is the incident pulsed radiation dose in gramcalories/cm2. A technique based on absorbed doses and differential temperature rises is suggested to correlate these results with other environments. 90% confidence level failure rates and survival probabilities for many lead systems are also given."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Advertisement, IEEE."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current committee members."
"A good central region yields a compact, dense, well-centered beam in a phase interval which will optimize the following acceleration and extraction processes. This paper reviews the role of various central region features in attaining desired beam properties. Results of careful calculations are shown to closely agree with observed beam properties."
"Methods of cyclotron beam development and diagnostics are described. Techniques for measuring the space, time and energy distributions of both internal and external beams are included. Emphasis is on the more recent methods commonly used at many laboratories."
"The description of the central optics for 2.4 m isochronous cyclotron is given in this report. The main parameters of the cyclotron are reported in an other paper contributed to the conference [1]. This cyclotron will accelerate protons up to the maximum energy 100 MeV and other particles. The aim of original orbits property studies is to obtain compact ion beam at possibly high time duration of current pulse. In addition to, the control flexibility requirement for the position of all central optics elements is taken into account, which is important for cyclotron with variable energy of particles. A number of experiments were carried out on 685 mm sector cyclotron [1], which investigated the ion motion near the center."
"A non-intercepting ion phase measuring equipment is in use at the Karlsruhe cyclotron. Five phase signals, steadily and simultaneously displayed are presenting a good survey of phase width and phase distribution versus radius. High noise immunity is obtained by the use of differential electrostatic pickup probes. Concerning the Jülich cyclotron a similar device with twelve double electrostatic probes is in construction."
"From the measurements made during the first operation period of the Karlsruhe cyclotron those of radial beam density, phase width and axial beam distribution are mentioned. Because of the satisfactory separation of the single orbits in a large radial range it has been easy to obtain information on the energy gain per turn, the amplitudes of the coherent radial oscillation and the radial dependence of the radial and axial betatron frequencies."
"Some Parameters determining the beamquality and energy resolution, will be discussed. Experiments have been performed, and results will be shown."
"The salient features of the resonance extractio ystem for the MSU cyclotron have already been described in a series of studies includings the generation of turn separation via the resonance mechanism, the design calculations for the electrostatic and magnetic channels, and the development of the air-core magnetic channel. A report issued in connection with this conference describes the status and presents pertinent data on the performanc of the cyclotron, including the extraction system. Since the issuing of that report, the electrostatic channel has been installed for preliminary tests. Experiments have verified that a suitable field bump drives the beam into this channel with clean turn separation, and that the turn pattern observed under these conditions agrees with orbit computations; the upper part of Fig. 1 shows the turn patter obtained from the differential and integral probe with the deflector in place (the azimuth of the probe is 160° before that of the channel entrance). The air-core magnetic channel is approaching completion and when this channel is installed, the extraction system will beame fully operational."
"This work is a review of regenerative beam extraction for synchrocyclotrons and isochronous cyclotrons. The linear and nonlinear theories of the system for synchrocyclotrons are briefly reviewed. The problems for the extraction efficiency and external beam quality are discussed. A theory for isochronous cyclotrons is given. Finally, present operating features of the systems and future prospects are summarized."
"For the extraction of the beam in an AVF cyclotron a regenerative system or an electrostatic channel can be used. Some factors of importance for the beam will be discussed. Extraction with an electrostatic channel can give very high external beam quality and extraction efficiency. For such a system it is of importance whether the beam is extracted before or after the νR=1 resonance. The beam can even pass the νR=2νZ resonance without blowing up vertically if attention is being paid to the radial oscillation amplitude and some machine parameters. The general orbit theory can be used for an analytical study of a regenerative system in an A.V.F. cyclotron."
"Negative hydrogen ions are accelerated at a fixed magnetic field. The energy of an extracted beam is determined by the radius of a stripping foil and its azimuth and radius determine the exit point of the beam from the cyclotron. The exit points can be adjusted so that an auxiliary magnet causes the various extracted beams to enter a common beam transport system. Since February, 1966, external beams whose energy is variable from 25 to 50 MeV have been produced by the above means at UCLA and the University of Manitoba. While this is primarily a report on the UCLA system and its performance, special features of the Manitoba system are presented."
"The highly effective extraction of accelerated particles from a relativistic cyclotron (RC) is one of the basic problems since the successful use of the RC a high energy physics instrument and its normal employment are possible only when practically all the particles are extracted from the chamber and external targets are used."
"The electro-static regenerative beam extraction system for the Berkeley 88\" cyclotron is described. Results of the orbit studies using the modified general orbit code are shown. The design features of the regenerator with a 3 section electro-static deflector are given. The results obtained from the machine tests are summarized."
"Following the success of a test electrostatic regenerator unit in the Berkeley 88-in. cyclotron, a new regenerative deflection system was built. The system was comprised of a regenerator unit and an electrostatic channel. The regenerator unit was positioned opposite the dee near extraction radius. This unit having a positive voltage gives the last few accelerating internal beam orbits such a bump off their normal orbit paths that their turn-to-turn separation was increased at the entrance to the deflector channel. This separation decreased the amount of beam dumped on the septum and thus increased the efficiency of the deflector. The electrostatic channel consisted of three pairs of electrodes. Each end of each electrode was positioned remotely from the control room where its radial position was also read. This was made possible by the use of a flexible linear ball-bearing unit connected between the electrode end and a motor drive unit located outside the cyclotron vacuum barrier. This same motor unit also drove a system of selsyns for position readout. The entrance septum elevation was also remotely adjustable. The septum was mounted on a linear ball-bearing wedge driven by a unit similar to that used in positioning the electrodes. The regenerative deflector was installed in November 1965 and delivered beam when first tried. It is presently undergoing beam development alternately with delivery of experimental beam."
"In this paper it is shown that the extraction efficiency in a synchrocyklotron can be increased considerably by selecting proper values for the internal circulating beam parameters. A good energy homogeneity and a high microscopic duty cycle can be achieved simultaneously. A calculation for some relevant radial amplitudes and energy gains/turn gives the energy diagram in fig. 11. From this it can be found that, if the internal beam is composed of 0.4 - 0.6 cm incoherent radial amplitudes and if the useful acceleration voltages are 7.2 - 10.6 kV, the gross extraction efficiency is 40 % for an energy spread of 300 keV. The duty cycle will be about 20 %. These results are valid if the vertical amplitudes are small so that the median plane motion program is correct."
"The effectiveness of magnetic shielding between superconducting niobium tin plates has been studied. Shielding factors, field profiles and gradients have been established for transverse magnetic fields up to 19.5 kG. In addition, it has been found that starting with a \"frozen-in\" field of -19.5 kG between the plates, it is possible to return the magnetic field to +19.5 kG suitable for particle acceleration, leaving -13.3 kG between the plates to establish reverse orbit curvature. It is the purpose of this writing to set forth the details of these endeavors for possible application to future accelerator extraction systems."
"A few examples demonstrate an elementary method of calculating the closed orbit in a cyclical accelerator when perturbative forces are present. The free oscillations can be found in a similar way, the criterion for stability being the same as for the strong focusing synchrotron. A steadily increasing extraction force will, however, destroy the condition necessary for resonance."
"Since their advent six years ago polarized ion sources have been successfully installed in 15 accelerators of various types around the world, including FF, FM, and isochronous cyclotrons. The advantages of sources over nuclear reactions for providing polarized particles are (1) greater intensity, (2) control of polarization mode and direction, and (3) freedom from background radiation from the primary target. Currently operating polarized ion sources can produce several tenth-microamperes of up to 80% polarized protons or 100% polarized deuterons and negative ion currents a thousand times smaller. Basic principles and recent developments in polarized ion source design and technology will be reviewed, with particular reference to the problems peculiar to cyclotrons. Some of the major contributions to polarized ion source development have been made at cyclotrons laboratories, first at CERN and later at Saclay, where the powerful adiabatic passage process for inducing hyperfine transitions has been extensively developed. More recently, the achievement of axial injection at Birmingham and the successful acceleration of polarized particles in the isochronous cyclotrons there and at Saclay indicate that polarized ion sources installed on this latest range of cyclotrons could provide the most powerful tool yet for examining nuclear polarization phenomena in the intermediate energy region."
"Discussion is restricted to low and medium energy cyclotrons. Some reasons for using external injection are given. At the present time injection is either in the median plane or axial. Among the possibilities for injection in the median plane are cycloidal motion along a sector edge, linear motion by electrostatic compensation, and high energy injection with trapping into cyclotron orbits by change of charge. In the axial direction all methods have much in common--focussing down a hole in the magnet pole and inflection into a cyclotron orbit. As an example of the problems and possibilities with external injection the axial method is discussed in more detail. Topics include basic principles, beam quality, variable energy arrangements, bunching and the choice of injection energy."
"Using the MSU source testing facility, the phase space density of a cyclotron-type ion source has been computed from axial and radial emittance-area measurements at a variety of arc conditions and for a number of source geometries. Studies to date have all employed a 1.5 × 9 mm source output slit. Arc currents have been varied from 0.5 to 5 amps. Geometrical variations have thus far been principally concerned with explorations of the focusing effects of various source face shapes. Both axial and radial emittance areas from a normal flat source are found to have a considerable admixture of coherent motion which results in inefficient use of aperture and also, in combination with non-linear fields, can lead to an effective dilution of the phase space density. Moderate recessing of the source contributes a focusing force in both r and z and makes the phase space volume much more compact. The effects of plasma boundary and space charge are evidenced in the axial measurements. The axial plasma boundary is found to be concave, with the results that ions emitted from the top and bottom of the ion source slit are focused toward the median plane. Space charge effects are clearly discernable; the axial width of the beam linearly increases as a function of total beam current."
"The effects of the electric fields generated by the ion beam in a cyclotron are investigated theoretically on the assumption that the beam consists of well defined bursts of ions moving on separated orbits. The theoretical analysis is carried out in two steps by first calculating the field acting on an ion at the surface of an individual burst due to the charge contained in the burst itself and then adding the contributions of charges on neighboring orbits. The electric field is found to be a function of the burst's radial position, inversely proportional to the velocity (or radius) on the first turns and then rapidly leveling off at intermediate radii. The influence of various parameters (dimensions of the bursts, energy gain per turn, etc.), the changes in the betatron frequencies and current limitations due to the space charge forces are discussed and illustrated in a numerical example."
"We plan to inject a heavy ions beam, previously accelerated, into the median plane of the Orsay CEVIL. The heavily charged ions, obtained after the stripping operation in the central region of the cyclotron, can achieve an energy proportional to the square of the charge number. The choice of injection energy represents, in fact, a compromise between price and performance. The e/m ratio, chosen to be ≫ 0,1, will give the possibility of accelerating heavy ions up to bromine, and Krypton. The injector will be a linear accelerator, either pulsed or continuous. The distance between the linear accelerator and the cyclotron will allow the debunching of beam packets, at the RF frequency (25 Mc/s). The drift tube circuit is similar to the Manchester one. We have gone duply into the problem of the focusing system in order to obtain an accelerated beam of more than 100 μA. The chosen solution was strong focusing grids, obtained by means of two parallel tungsten strips placed at the beginning of each drift tube, each pair being at 90° to the preceeding one. The theoretical studies of this apparatus are well advanced at present ; the industrial production of the main elements is under way. The whole equipment should be completely finished in July 1967."
"The goal is a continous external proton beam of the order of 100 μA, the usable current depending mainly on extraction rate because of activation. The energy of 500 MeV is best suited to produce high fluxes of low energy or stopped mesons. The main fields of the research are planned to be: properties and interactions of mesons and nucleons, nuclear structure physics and medical and biological applications. The use of internal targets in field free regions as well as external targets should provide a great variety of beams for simultaneous experiments. The two-stage accelerator has a 70 MeV sector focussed cyclotron for injection into an isochronous ring accelerator consisting of eight spiral sector magnets. Four cavities operating at 50 MHz should provide at least 1 MeV energy gain per turn. In the course of present development the main fields of work are orbit dynamics and measurement on 1:5 scale magnets and design of a 1:1 model magnet sector. vZ is to be kept around 0.95 throughout acceleration and vr = 1.5 may be used for resonance extraction. Experiments to reach high gap voltage on a full scale cavity in vacuum are in progress (200-300 kV obtained at present). Remaining problems are some aspects of mechanical structure, in particular the vacuum chamber and schemes for quantitative extraction and secondary beam production from external targets at very high radioactivity levels. Funds of 21 Million Dollars have been approved for construction of accelerator and buildings."
"The possibility of increasing the output of fm cyclotrons is being explored simultaneously in many laboratories. Space charge seems to be the limiting factor. Practically every laboratory is investigating a form of hooded source known as the Livingston, calutron or Oak Ridge source. The ions must clear such a source so higher dee voltages are needed. The higher dee voltage is desirable in any case since the beam usually increases as some power of this voltage (if the repetition rate is increased correspondingly). The theoretical picture indicates a variation between V and V2. Some fm cyclotrons will try to increase performance by this method alone. Others will include all the possible improvements including a complete sector field near isochronism which will provide strong vertical focusing and reduce the frequency swing. The largest machines will probably try to achieve their goal by small sectors near the source and somewhat lareer limited radii sectors on the poles (with an unchanged radial profile). The status of these efforts is reviewed and some data on the Berkeley model program is given. It appears that most fm cyclotrons will eventually be partially or wholly converted to sector focused synchrocyclotrons."
"A modification is proposed for the Uppsala 185 MeV Synchro-cyclotron to obtain a high intensity beam of different particles. By introducing sectors, a radially increasing magnetic field can be used. The reduced bandwidth makes it possible to replace the present rotating condenser by an electronically tuned broadband system. Protons will be accelerated with decreasing and heavier particles with increasing frequencies. No correction coils are required. Expected external currents are of the order of 10 μA."
"Studies are in progress on possible improvements of the center region and extraction system of the 184-in. cyclotron. The center region is being studied with a 28-in. model proton cyclotron, which has been operated without frequency modulation at 16 and 23 kG and at 1% duty cycle. Frequency modulation has now been added to study space charge and capture problems. Computer studies are also being done with an orbit code including electric field, to study median plane motion. The extraction system is being examined to reduce losses in the regenerator region."
"Our synchro-cyclotron is a 450 MeV machine. We want to increase the beam energy and intensity. The magnetic field will be increased by 6 almost radial high field regions. The steel will come within 2 inches of the midplane. A coil close to the gap will reduce the leakage flux. The acceleration electrodes will be confined to two opposite valleys and will be frequency modulated. The machine improvement is still in the talking stage. I wish to describe two computer programs which may help us to a more definite proposal."
"The possibility of injecting the Synchro-Cyclotron extracted proton beam into a strong focussing ring called CYBEST, is investigated. It is seen that pion beams produced in internal targets of such a device show some advantages with respect to present Synchro-Cyclotron beams. More detailed studies are needed however for final judgement. CYBEST is realizable if a sufficiently fast extraction from the Synchro-Cyclotron could be obtained. The magnetic structure is simple but occupies a large area and the required aperture is also relatively large."
"Certain problems associated with cyclotrons in the energy range above 200 MeV are discussed and possible solutions suggested. These concern: Producing the flutter and profile changes required for the acceleration of a wide range of particles and energies, the proportion between the RF wave length and the exit radius, phase acceptance, phase slip at extraction, extraction electrical field, turn separation and tolerances on the power supplies Computer applications in this energy range are also discussed."
"With the continuing evolution of the various types of meson factories the relative merits of the H- spiral ridge eyclotron appear to be improving. The development and design of such an accelerator has been led by UCLA. Recently three universities in British Columbia have combined personnel for a design study intended to lead to an H- meson facility called TRIUMF - Tri University Meson Facility). Among the various meson factories the H- facility is the only one which combines the following advantages: (1) large duty factor; (2) variable energy; (3) ease of beam extraction; (4) use of simultaneous beams; (5) high beam quality. Until recently it faced two problems: (a) uncertainty about field dissociation of negative ions; (b) lack of polarized ion sourees. Recent UCLA measurements of field dissociation and the advent of polarized H- ion sources and axial injection into cyclotrons remove these problems. The field dissociation measurements agree with Hiskes' calculations and enable the use of higher fields than previously proposed for H- facilities. The TRIUMF project concerns a machine whose beam characteristics (maximum energy 500 MeV; maximum beam radius 271 inches; beam current 20-100 μA) were selected for optimum use in nuelear structure experiments, for low cost and for operating simplieity."
"This paper describes briefly the present status and future plans of the work at Los Alamos Scientific Laboratory on a meson factory project. At the time of writing, some 40 scientists and engineers are engaged in research and development activities for this project. The primary emphasis at present is on the linear accelerator which will generate the proton beam for meson production; in the future, this emphasis will shift to research activities connected with the use of the accelerator as a tool of experimental physics. More detailed descriptions of this work can be found in the quarterly progress reports (LA-3419-MS and following reports). The first section of the paper contains a general description of the accelerator; the following sections give somewhat more detailed descriptions of particular research and development activities."
"A novel guide-magnet configuration has been devised which makes possible the acceleration of all charge-to-mass ratios from 0.04 to 1. A concentric storage ring, with the associated beam-switching equipment, allows for the extension of beam duty factor to essentially 100%. The storage ring can also be used in a bootstrap acceleration of heavy ions in which the ions are injected at low e/m, accelerated to a moderate velocity, stored while the accelerating ring returns to minimum field, stripped to maximum e/m, and re-injected for further acceleration. With a pressurized 2.5 MV Cockcroft-Walton injector, the proposed system is capable of accelerating all ions from protons to uranium--to energies up to 1.5 BeV for protons and 0.3 to 0.5 BeV/nucleon for the heavier ions. Intensities of 1012 to 1013 nucleons/sec for the lighter ions (M ⩽ 128) are anticipated. The heavy-ion charge-exchange probabilities determine the vacuum requirements of this system. To minimize these requirements and to increase beam intensity, a 60/sec cycling rate has been chosen. The vacuum requirements and the special rf resonator and beam-switching problems attendant with the high cycling rate are discussed."
"The separated-orbit cyclotron (SOC) is a cyclic accelerator which combines the advantages of the isochronous cyclotron, the synchrocyclotron, and the linear accelerator. In an SOC, injected ions are accelerated by radio frequency cavities interspersed with the sectors of a magnet structure that guides and focuses the beam along a fixed spiral path. The magnet structure, intersected radially at equal azimuthal intervals by the rf cavities, is designed so that the time per revolution of the particles is independent of their energy, as in an isochronous cyclotron, and it may incorporate any of the well-known methods for focusing ions, such as are used in various types of synchrocyclotrons. The particles accelerated in the SOC are phase focused with respect to a synchronous phase angle corresponding to a chosen rate of energy gain and a peak accelerating voltage. This is made possible by the independent magnetic focusing for the separated orbits since the transverse dimensions of the beam are much smaller than the separation between adjacent turns, 100% beam extraction efficiency should be easily achieved. Variable energy can be obtained by moving the extraction magnet to intercept all of the beam at the right turn for the energy desired. The original concept of the SOC featured a spiral-helix ion path, sometimes called \"beehive,\" Fig. 1, in which the orbit separation necessary to accommodate the independent magnet structure for successive turns was gained mainly by axial displacement."
"A new concept in cyclic particle accelerators is described in which time harmonic accelerating fields are produced without recourse to conventional power amplifiers. Instead, the accelerating fields are produced by extracting energy from a bunched beam of particles. In essence the new machine consists of two intimately connectbd Separated Orbit Cyclotrons, one of which is operated in the decelerating mode. The decelerating particles obtain their energy initially from a D. C. high voltage supply."
"The importance and relationship of cyclotron beam characteristics to various experiments are discussed, and examples of some of the influences are given. The beam properties considered include phase-space density, energy, energy-spread, energyvariability, energy stability, and duty factor."
"Although AVF cyclotrons have been in operation only for a relatively short period an impressive number of experiments have been performed and much work is also currently being done. The available time for this talk is too short, of course, to give an exhaustive survey of what has been achieved in Europe during the last year and I must select some typical experiments for presentation, apologizing to those authors, whose work I cannot mention."
"The installation of a broad-range spectrograph system at ORIC has now been completed. The system consists of a beam analyzing magnet, two triplet quadrupole magnets, and the spectrograph magnet. These magnets are operated as a compound system to obtain optimum energy resolution. The quadrupole pair gives the system a unique flexibility in matching the properties of the beam preparation and the spectrograph magnets. Preliminary results of the operation of the system show the importance of this compound operation with obtained resolutions approaching 1 part in 2000."
"High demands (for example [1]) claimed to beam quality of modern cyclotrons force to solve on the whole the problems of extraction and transport of particles. In 240 cm cyclotron design [2] six experimental rooms with total area of about 100 m2 are provided. The ion optics of this installation has been described earlier in the paper on Frascati conference[3]. In the present paper some results of electronic computer calculations of the extraction and transport systems' parameters are given. A brief description of secondary particle analyzers is also given."
"A system consisting of two coupled electrostatic deflectors and the associated electronics is described. The principle of the system is shown in fig. 1: One deflector which is located near the center of the machine is used for a two-fold purpose a) to eliminate two out of three microstructure pulses by deflection to a beam stop and b) to form ion bunches of 4,5 usec duration each consisting of fifty microstructure pulses. A second pair of deflector plates is located at a mean radius of 39 inches and serves to simultaneously deflect the set of microstructure pulses to a target positioned above the median plane of the cyclotron. At the time of deflection, the bunch is distributed over 4 inches in radius. Using this method neutron pulses of 1 ± 0,3 nsec duration with a repetition rate of 20 kc/sec can be produced. A neutron time-of-flight spectrometer has been put in operation using this \"deflection-bunching\" system."
"The automatic-control requirements of the 88-inch cyclotron trim-coil power supplies resemble those of many industrial processes. Certain set points must be automatically realized and maintained throughout an extended experimental run. The recently installed system reduces trim-coil setup time to less than 5 min, and maintains these set points within 0.4% or less over an 8-hour period. Although the system is primarily analog, the set points for a run are programmed on an IBM card and entered into the system through a digital-to-analog interface. The system is being extended to include the many machine-parameters--such as the deflector positions and voltages--that have set points."
"Machine development at the 88-inch cyclotron is described. Topics include instrumentation, deflector development, a radioactivity survey of the dee tank, and computer calculations on the gap-crossing resonance. Studies were made of external beam energy spread and pulse shape. Axial injection progress is described. Recommendations are made for design improvements on the 88-inch cyclotron."
"The characteristics of the proton beam extracted from the Milan AVF cyclotron by H- ion stripping have been studied. Quality and phase measurements were made in an external beam which was obtained without any geometrical definition of the internal H- beam path."
"It is possible to obtain an isochronous magnetic field over a wide range of average induction for a given ion by changing the structure of the electro-magnet. This new structure allows great reduction of correcting adjustements. We obtained, at Orsay, encouraging results by the use of shims with variable permeability and damping gaps. Only two correction coils were necessary to make the average field isochronous to within 30 gauss, for all the ions. The internal beam tests confirmed the good quality of the magnetic field and verified the theoretical calculations ; the intensity of the multicharged ion beam was generally greater than the initial evaluation. Two extractors are at present set up : an electrostatic deflector and a stripping extractor. This latter device perserves the optical qualities of the beam. Furthermore, one or more simultaneous beams can be obtained with an excellent efficiency, and with various energies, depending on the radius."
"To operate the MSU cyclotron, controls are set to pre-computed values prepared by a computer program known as SETOP; to obtain a complete set of operating instructions the experimenter need only specify the particle of interest and a field identification number roughly proportional to energy. The program uses this information along with measured field data and a pre-computed set of ideal fields to determine the desired \"operating point\" in a straightforward series of calculations: (1) the fields at the desired excitation are synthesized by interpolation in the measured field data, (2) an average field is obtained using a modified least squares fit of the desired average field by the trim coils, and (3) the rf frequency is determined so as to minimize the energy spread of the beam in a single turn at the extraction energy. This paper describes the procedure used in SETOP to determine such operating points, and discusses the principle features of these computations. A typical SETOP sheet is presented along with instructions for its use. Results of beam measurements are in excellent agreement with computed beam behavior."
"This paper describes some of the design, engineering, construction and procurement details of the Texas A & M University Variable Energy Cyclotron (TAMVEC). All major engineering has been completed, and system components are presently under construction at various vendor plants throughout the country. Assembly and installation of the machine will begin in the latter part of June 1966. It is anticipated that construction and check out of the machine will require only 9 months. The TAMVEC machine is funded by the United States Atomic Energy Commission. Engineering, procurement, and construction of the machine is being performed by the Bechtel Corporation. TAMVEC is a variable-energy cyclotron basically similar in physics and arrangement to the 88-inch variable energy, spiral-ridge cyclotron(1) installed at Lawrence Radiation Laboratory (LRL) in Berkeley, California. However, as a result of LRL, Texas A & M University, and Bechtel staff experience and recommendations, the TAMVEC machine has several improved design features incorporated in it. These are discussed in the following paragraphs."
"This index covers all technical items that appeared in this periodical during the year."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Advertisement, IEEE."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"About four-thousand events have now been measured at ANL using three measuring machines, each equipped with a small Recomp II computer. The computer has a 4K memory of 40 bit words and has floating point hardware. The computer guides and, in a sense, watches over the measurer, performing many elementary checks of the measuring process. A space reconstruction is not attempted, but sufficient checks are made to eliminate most mistakes and inaccuracies which would later cause failures during the reconstruction process."
"A transistorized trip circuit is described which employs a simple self-testing technique to achieve a high degree of fail-safeness with a minimum number of components. It operates with d-c input currents in the range from 10 to 100 microamperes and can control up to 100 watts of load power. The trip differential for a load change from full power to zero power is less than 0.1 microampere; and the temperature stability of the trip point is better than 0.02 a/°C. This trip circuit may be used with either relay or solid-state logic and power switching circuits."
"The currents induced by nuclear radiation from a pulsed reactor on several commercial capacitors are compared with those induced by the electron beam of a linear accelerator (LINAC) source. Dependence of the radiation induced current on applied voltage, geometry, dose, and dose rate is contrasted for Mylar*, polystyrene, mica, tantalum, glass, and ceramic capacitors. These effects are analyzed in terms of models appropriate for the various capacitors, and values of parameters defining these relationships are given. The relative effectiveness of neutron and gamma radiation in producing induced currents in these capacitive elements at the reactor environment was also obtained."
"Operational alpha counting characteristics have been obtained for a point-plane counter in air working in the corona-streamer mode. Hemispherically capped wires and rods were used as anodes having diameters 1.0 mm - 3.5 mm and spaced 0.6 cm - 2.0 cm from a flat polished tungsten cathode."
"A wide-range vibrating-reed electrometer that obtained extensive detailed data on the \"solar wind\" during the Mariner II flight to Venus is described. This circuit used an inverting carrier-type dc amplifier with a logarithmic diode as its principal feedback element and represented the first successful application of a space-qualified dynamic capacitor electrometer. This system also represents one of the earliest all-semiconductor amplifiers to be used in a dynamic capacitor electrometer. The wide dynamic range of the application (10-13 to 10-6 A) required the stabilization of a closed loop having 7 decades of continuous variation in the dynamic resistance of the primary feedback element. Some details of design, analysis, and performance associated with the electrometer amplifier and its feedback system are presented."
"Experimental data obtained on the degradation of the short-circuit current in 1-ohm-cm N/P silicon solar cells irradiated by low-energy, 0.1-3.0 MeV, protons were analyzed with the aid of an N-layer solar-cell model. The results show that the damage constant, K(Ep), rises less rapidly with decreasing proton energy, Ep, than it does at higher proton energies. The derived damage law can be analytically described as follows: K(Ep) = Ep ⟨ E1 =.962 MeV E1 ≤ Ep =2.98 MeV where K0 = 1.92 × 10-5 p-1 C1 = 1.08 MeV-1 C2 = 0.85 This representation has been found adequate for incident proton energies of 0.5, 1, and 3 MeV and definitive for Ep ≥ 0.1 MeV. The value of Ko listed should be considered as representative only of the particular solar cells analyzed."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Summary form only given, as follows. The authors of the paper \"The mechanism of channel electron multiplcation,\" which appeared on pages 88-99 of the June 1966, issue of these Transactions note that the subheading 'Saturation in curved channels' on page 89 should be transposed with 'Saturation in Straight Channels,\" on page 90."
"Instrumentation requirements at Argonne have necessitated the development of circuits capable of delivering megawatt-level pulses into various types of loads. The allowed delay time between the command signal and the output pulse has ranged from a few nanoseconds to a few microseconds and the allowed time jitter has generally been in the low nanosecond region. This report will consider some of the components and circuits and some of the system design concepts in current use at Argonne for high voltage-high current pulse instrumentation."
"Radiation detectors extensively used in high energy physics are briefly reviewed. Applications are discussed, together with remarks on light collection efficiency of various light pipes, Čerenkov counters, time-of-flight techniques, and use of integrated circuits. Finally, several new types of detectors are mentioned which may be suitable for identification of particles at very high energies (hundreds of BeV)."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Advertisement, IEEE."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"Presents the table of contents for this conference, which is included in this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current committee members."
"Theoretical calculations have been made of the energy deposited in silicon in ionization and elastic interactions by neutrons in the energy range of 60 keV to 15 MeV. In contrast to earlier determinations, care was taken to calculate accurately the effects of atomic recoils. These are of primary importance for permanent effects in silicon at all neutron energies and account for about 30% of the transient ionization at 14 MeV. To test the calculation of the energy deposited by 14 MeV neutrons, experiments were performed with a pulsed d-t generator. The experimental values in rads per unit fluence were (11 ± 2) × 10-10 rad-cm2 for special p-n junctions and (8 ± 2) × 10-10 rad-cm2 for power transistors. Both experimental values agree, withi jerror, with the calculated value of (8 ± 1) × 10-10 rad-cm2. The calculated variation of radiation damage in silicon with neutron energy was compared with existing experimental data. There is general agreement of theory with experiment from 200 keV to 14 MeV."
"For an understanding of displacement effects in semiconductors, it is important to establish a correlation of the magnitude of these effects with various types of radiation. A study has been made of the effect of highly energetic radiation on n-type silicon using two techniques. First, with electron-spin resonance studies, the energy dependence of formation of the Si-Bl center at 80° and 300°K by 1.5, 2.5, 5, and 30 MeV electrons and by reactor neutrons has been determined. In addition, the energy dependence of the production of the divacancy by electrons with energies between 2.5 and 30 MeV in n-type silicon have been obtained. Second, using galvanomagnetic techniques, information has been obtained on the irradiation response and subsequent recovery during annealing of the conductivity, Hall coefficient, and Hall mobility of n-and p-type silicon. The samples were bombarded at 80°K with 5 to 30 MeV electrons and isochronally annealed to 400°K. A considerable amount of annealing was observed in all cases, but the recovery was never complete."
"Crucible grown p-type silicon crystals with various dopants were irradiated with 1 MeV electrons. The Hall coefficient measurements indicated that the introduction rate of the Ev + 0.3 eV energy level was independent of the chemical acceptor atoms and the dislocation density. This energy level was not found in similar float zone crystals. The evidence supports a defect complex with oxygen, but does not involve atoms of the chemical acceptor. Annealing studies of the Ev + 0.3 eV level indicated a first stage annealed at 400°C and a second stage anneal at 550°C. The second phase of this work involves the electron irradiation of heavily-doped samples of floating zone silicon. It was found that the defect introduction rate increased very slowly with phosphorus concentration. The introduction rate decreased linearly with the remaining car rier concentration during irradiation. In the impurity conduction region, the activation energy for conduction increased with electron irradiation. Production of vacancy-phosphorous pairs appears to be responsible for the changes observed."
"Neutron-induced degradation of carrier lifetime in silicon was observed for n- and p-type material containing various amounts of oxygen and different dopant impurities. There was no observable dependence of lifetime degradation on oxygen concentration. No dependence on type of dopant was observed in n-type silicon, and only small effects appeared to occur in p-type material. Evidently the recombination process is dominated by centers within primary defect clusters, rather than by point defects. These studies indicate that the choice of dopant-impurity or growth technique is usually unimportant in determining device failure in a neutron environment."
"The dependence of minority carrier lifetime on injection level was analyzed to yield recombination center parameters for neutron-irradiated germanium. The results are an improvement over data obtained by other methods because they eliminate a possible dependence of capture probability on temperature, and are more sensitive to energy level position. Six n-type specimens doped with arsenic and antimony in the resistivity range from one to twenty ohm-cm were studied. The results reveal a recombination center level of Er - Ev = 0. 34 ± 0.01 eV for antimony-doped germanium and Er - Ev = 0.335 ± 0.01 eV for arsenic-doped germanium. The dependence of lifetime on injection level for high excitation demonstrated the appropriateness of the model which includes the effect of a level of Ec - Er ~ 0.2 eV."
"Transient annealing following pulsed neutron exposure has been investigated in silicon transistors and solar cells as a function of both irradiation temperature and injection level. In addition, experiments incorporating both X and gamma ray irradiation have demonstrated that transient annealing is a bulk, not a surface, effect. The observed annealing following neutron irradiation is considerably slower at low temperatures than at room temperature. At 213°K thg density of annealable defects remaining at 10-10 seconds after exposure is approximately three times that observed at this same time for a 300°K irradiation. The injection studies show that at any temperatures from 76°K to 300°K the presence of minority carrier injection considerably speeds the transient annealing processes. A model is presented which explains many of the features observed in transient annealing. Various kinetic processes are discussed in the derivation of this model, including diffusion-limited and generation-limited processes, and the results of the model are compared with experimental data."
"This paper presents certain preliminary results on the fracture of silicon, germanium and indium antimonide resulting from pulsed electron irradiation. Experimental results show that the rapid absorption of energy can produce brittle fracture in the semiconducting materials silicon, germanium and indium antimonide. Samples were irradiated using the external electron beam from a flash X-ray generator having a peak electron energy of 2.2 Mev and a pulse width of approximately 40 nsec. All irradiations were done at room temperature with the total exposure controlled by an appropriate choice of separation distance between sample and source. Samples of various sizes and geometry were prepared from single crystals of n-type germanium and silicon. Sample orientation was obtained through X-ray diffraction. Surface treatments were varied and included a finish polish and etch. Experimental results on germanium, silicon and indium antimonide have established the fracture threshold for polished and etched bulk material to be approximately 34 cal/g for silicon, about 8.5 cal/g for germanium and 4 cal/ g in indium antimonide. Surface treatment played an important role in the observed fracture level. No dimensional dependence of the fracture threshold was observed using polished and etched bars 1 × 1 mm2 in cross section and having lengths between 1 and 25 mm. The fracture planes in both silicon and germanium were found to be the (111) crystal planes and the (110) planes in indium antimonide."
"Transient radiation effects induced in silicon irradiated in the temperature range 90 to 300°K by 0.007 to 4.5 microsecond pulses of 48 MeV electrons were studied using the transient response of resistivity and Hall effect voltages as the measuring probes. Results are given for one ohm-cm phosphorus-doped n-type silicon and 10 to 100 ohm-cm n-type and p-type samples. In the case of one ohmcm silicon the results clearly show the actual buildup of excess electrons produced by ionization during the time the electron pulse is irradiating the sample. Moreover, the shape of the pulse during buildup is independent of temperature as long as the electron beam pulse is kept constant. Dependence of the number of injected excess carriers on the ionization intensity (total integrated electron flux in the pulse) was found to be linear up to excess carrier concentrations of ~ 1017 cm-3. The lifetime is found to increase linearly with injection implying that the recombination may be dominated by one defect energy level. In p-type silicon the transient Hall and conductivity voltages decay in ~ 20-50 jsec. Relatively long saturation times (~ 10 to 100 microseconds) are observed in the transient Hall and conductivity voltage following an electron burst. The saturation time decreases with dose accumulation in p-type and also decreases as the irradiation temperature of the sample (both n- and p-type) is decreased. Very similar effects also are observed in n-type silicon samples."
"It has been previously reported that, at relatively modest dose-rates (~109 rad/sec), certain transistor types exhibit an anomalous primary photocurrent response which results in serious departures from the commonly assumed linear dose-rate dependence. This paper presents additional experimental evidence concerning the anomalous photocurrent problem and develops a model which explains the observed data in terms of carrier generation and transport processes within the device. The analysis and supporting experimental evidence shows that the observed phenomenon is the result of base-emitter junction breakdown. This breakdown is induced by transverse photocurrent flow in the active base region and causes the device to assume a common emitter configuration wherein the primary photocurrent is amplified by the device gain."
"Transient response of a transistor exposed to an ionizing radiation environment can be predicted solely from knowledge of the radiation environment and transistor lumped-model parameters calculated from geometrical and electrical data. Accuracy of the lumped-model transistor representation depends on the detail and accuracy of the data used for calculation of the lumped-model parameter values, an accurate representation of the carrier generation rate in the semiconductor transistor chip, and an accurate representation of the interaction of the radiation environment and the transistor leads and package. In general, we have found that the detailed transistor model represents the common emitter transient response to well within a factor of two. The transistor response is calculated from electrical and geometrical data and the measurement of the radiation intensity from a silicon PIN detector. The transistor response is considered over the entire practical range of quiescent emitter current (<10 μa to > 10 ma) and common-emitter source resistance (100 ohms to 10 kilohms)."
"The feasibility of predicting equilibrium photocurrents in silicon switching diodes entirely from nondestructively measured electrical parameters is shown. The prediction method is derived from the basic theoretical equation for diode photocurrent. Junction areas and depletion widths are related to avalanche voltages and capacitance-voltage characteristics by a general solution to McKay's avalanche condition integral equation. Diffusion lengths are related to storage times. The feasibility of the prediction method is demonstrated by comparing predicted and measured values of equilibrium photocurrents in 46 test diodes."
"Spontaneous dielectric breakdown was studied in methyl methacrylate polymer, Plexiglas, with a Field Emission Corporation Model 705 Febetron. The breakdown plane was influenced by the presence of embedded metal foils. Charge deposition was measured in a stack of thin sheets of Plexiglas and compared favorably with the calculated charge deposition under the condition of no charge buildup. The energy deposition behind samples of Plexiglas showed a reduction with increased sample thickness. An incident charge density of 4.l × 10-2 coulombs/M2 was found necessary to cause spontaneous breakdown in samples thicker than the electron range. The time between the deposition of maximum charge and spontaneous dielectric breakdown was 30 to 40 nanoseconds for an 1/8-inch thick sample with 7.4x10-2 coulombs M2 of incident electrons on an 1/4-inch diameter area. When Plexiglas was irradiated to 7.4x10-2 coulombs/M2, 1/16-inch thick samples did not show breakdown whereas 1/10-inch thick samples did show breakdown."
"A theoretical analysis of the transient response of insulators to various types of irradiating particles is given by considering the different nature of the paths of ionized electrons that are formed by the primary radiation. Theory shows that for the class of insulators with a low dielectric constant, the transient response from a densely ionizing particle will be much less than that of a lightly ionizing particle for equal amounts of ionization energy deposition because of direct electron-ion recombination. For insulators with a high dielectric constant, the difference in response to the two types of particles is greatly reduced. In addition, a method for predicting the onset of nonlinear response as a function of radiation dose is given. It is seen that competition between direct electron-ion recombination and change in occupancy of the traps can occur. An interesting result of considering the non-uniform generation of electrons is that the response to irradiation by densely ionizing particles should depend on the orientation of the beam with respect to the applied electric field."
"Recent results obtained on anthracene crystals make it possible to calculate the number of carriers created in polymers when they are subjected to high energy radiation. These results are described and applied to some recently reported measurements on polystyrene. Reasonable values are found for such quantities as carrier mobility and trap densities."
"The effects of high-energy ionizing radiation on the behavior and output frequency of electronic oscillators, whose frequency-determining elements were quartz crystals operating in the vicinity of 5 Mc, have been studied. Both fundamental- and fifth-overtone crystals were studied over a dose range from 3,000 rads (Si) to 2 Mrads (Si). The crystals studied were of two types: (1) standard commercial precision crystals fabricated from natural quartz with Q's of approximately 2.5 × 106 for the fifth overtone and 4 × 105 for the fundamental, and (2) special fifth-overtone crystals fabricated from swept pure Z-growth synthetic quartz. The natural quartz showed much larger changes in frequency and transient loss of Q than the swept synthetic crystals. The crystals were incorporated into commercial precision oscillator circuits and maintained in a temperature-controlled oven. The radiation doses (both 25-MeV electrons and 10-MeV peak bremsstrahlung gamma rays) were provided by the General Atomic electron linear accelerator. The radiation was collimated to irradiate only the crystal. The oscillator output signal was monitored with an oscilloscope during and after the radiation burst, and the frequency was measured by cycle counting for 10-or 100-sec time intervals. The precision of the frequency measurements was ±2 parts in 108 for the 10-sec intervals and ±2 parts in 109 for the 100-sec intervals. Electrons and gamma rays were shown to have the same effect on the crystals; therefore, most of the work was done with electrons because of the convenience of accumulating large doses in 4.5-psec pulses."
"Microcircuit response to nuclear radiations has become an increasingly important concern over the past year. This discussion will consider transient radiation effects (TRE); a companion discussion will cover space radiation effects. The interesting effects occur in two areas: displacement effects resulting from fast neutron irradiation, and ionizing effects caused by prompt pulses composed of x-rays and γ-rays. Fast neutron degradation of microcircuit performance is dominated by transistor current gain reduction. Current gain degradation in microcircuit transistor elements follows the same laws as current gain reduction in discrete transistors of similar base region design and geometry."
"Photovoltaic measurements indicate that lithium in the n-type region of floating-zone silicon p-on-n solar cells interacts with radiation damage induced by 1 MeV electrons or 16.8MeV protons. The centers formed by this interaction do not degrade the minority-carrier lifetime; therefore, these cells are potentially the most radiation-resistant ones available. The interaction involves the motion of lithium; thus, the cell temperature and the radiation rate are important in establishing the amount of degradation which is observed. At room temperature and low rates, the cell output does not degrade. At room temperature and high rates, the cell output degrades but it recovers after irradiation, i.e. the cells are self-healing. The rate which can be used without causing observable decay in the photovoltaic output increases with the cell temperature."
"This work illustrates the use of radiation damage as a \"tool\" enabling one to learn more about the conduction and injection mechanisms operative in GaAs p-n junctions. This is done by varying the minority carrier lifetimes by means of radiation damage and noting the resulting changes in various measured parameters. The electroluminescence (E.L.) and current in \"lightly\" doped diodes (~2 × 1017 donors/cm3) and their behavior after 2-MeV electron irradiation indicate that, although most of the recombination occurs within the depletion region, those few electrons that do succeed in being injected into the conduction band of the p-type side are the ones responsible for the E.L. In the case of \"heavily\" doped diodes (~2 × 1018 donors/cm3) at nitrogen temperature the E.L. occurs within the depletion region and is described by the \"band-filling\" model. The \"band-filling\" model also describes the behavior of the increase in current resulting from radiation damage. Short circuit current measurements during irradiation indicate that the diffusion length of electrons is much greater than the diffusion length of holes in diffused junctions, and gives additional information about the rate of defect introduction."
"After low-exposure dosage of electron and/or gamma radiation, anomalous permanent changes in transistor gain have been observed which cannot be attributed to changes in base minority-carrier lifetime or to temporary surface effects. A study of these permanent effects has been performed using base current component analysis similar to that applied to neutron damage by Goben. By this method it was possible to observe the buildup with dose of individual components of base recombination current. These components can be related to damage in the base-emitter space-charge region and in the base regions of the devices. It was possible to correlate the buildup and/ or saturation of the components with structure observed in the curves of anomalous gain degradation. Furthermore, analysis of damage in the base region revealed two components which appear to be related to changes in the surface recombination velocity and to changes in the minority-carrier lifetime, respectively."
"An investigation of electron-induced ionization and displacement damage in N-P-N and P-N-P transistors at medium and low powers is presented. Measurements of base and collector currents as a function of base-emitter voltage with radiation as a parameter were made. The transistors were irradiated sequentially with 125 keV and 1 MeV electrons. Initial saturation of surface-damage effects with 125 keV made possible the separation of displacement and surface damage. The results show that the dominant displacement damage occurs within the emitter-base transistor region for fluence levels less than or equal to 5×1015 1 MeV e/cm2 and emitter currents less than or equal to 10 milliamperes in the 2N2102 and 2N1132 transistors. Above this fluence level, displacement damage in the bulk of the base region becomes effective. Isochronal and isothermal annealing measurements indicate that the results can be explained by attributing the damage in the transistion region to recombination current losses at K-centers for N-P-N transistors and A-centers for P-N-P transistors."
"The instrument consists of an invar cylindrical cavity of variable length, suitably excited in the TE014 and TE015 modes by a fixed X-band frequency of 9.28 GHz. The inside surface of the cavity is silver plated. Disc-shaped specimens are placed on top of a micrometer-driven noncontacting plunger that forms one of the end-plates. The other end-plate is a vacuum-tight flange with a window to permit particulate or ultraviolet radiation to enter the cavity and bathe the specimen. Signal coupling hoses are placed along the cavity side wall on the same plane, at a distance 3 λ/4 from the top end-plate. Input ports are two tectangular slots machined lengthwise along the major axis of the cavity and coupled 180 degrees out of phase at the points of maximum magnetic field. The output port is an orifice located halfway between the input slots. A side-arm vacuum flange below the cavity connects to a sputter-ion vacuum pump. Another similar flange provides an insertion port for the specimens. The shaft of the plunger is isolated from the chamber by a stainless steel bellows. To facilitate specimen insertion, the plunger-micrometer assembly is lowered by a rack and pinion. Precise repositioning is achieved by two conical indexing plugs. Relative dielectric constant of a specimen is obtained from the shift in cavity resonant length when the specimen is inserted. Loss tangent is obtained from the shift in half-power resonance bandwidth. Dielectric measurements under vacuum have been made with the specimen irradiated with ultraviolet light."
"A radiation-hardened data recording system has been designed, fabricated and tested. The employed data sampling and recording technique samples the input signal waveshape and stores the instantaneous voltage in a memory bank for subsequent data read-out or telemetry. A design concept, incorporating parallel write-in, variable-rate sampling and tunnel-diode memory, was implemented for development of a ten-megacycle prototype system. The prototype system exhibited radiation hardness in excess of 3 x 1010 rads(Si)/ sec and 1014Nvt, with promise of extending the design concept to provide another order of magnitude radiation hardness."
"Two different types of commercial lithium fluoride phosphors in powder form, Con-Rad type N and type 7, have been systematically studied according to their reactions with different neutron energies which range from thermal to 14 Mev. Special efforts have been made to investigate the half life of isothermal decay, the order of kinetics, frequency factor, trap depth, probability factor, and the dosimetry prospect. The study of kinetics of thermoluminescent decay is based on the first-order and second-order kinetics and also on the experiments of isothermal decay and the glow curve analysis from which the parameters such as the frequency factor, s; the trap depth, E; the probability factor, pi, are derived. Comparison is made with the work of other investigators who have derived methods to determine the values of E and s. The experimental results show that type N LiF has a relatively deep trap distribution, while type 7 LiF has a rather shallow trap distribution. This indicates that the order of kinetics for type NI LiF seems to be second order while that for type 7 LiF is most likely first order. Type NJ LiF has a cross section of 71 barns for thermal neutrons. Through the reaction Li6(n, α) H3, type N LiF can be applied in thermal neutron dosimetry. Followqing Cameron's mathematical model, a definite relationship betwieen neutron fluence and thermoluminescence response has been obtained. Type 7 LiF is a prospective material for fast neutron dosimetry."
"The use of pulsed electron sources capable of delivering doses of tens of megarads in periods of 10 to 40 nanoseconds presents unique problems from the standpoint of dosimetry. To conduct experiments in this environment it is usually desirable to measure the spatial variation of the incident flux as well as the absorbed dose. At present the larger available pulsed electron machines may give poor exposure reproducibility at constant source-to-sample distance. This requires that dosimetry be performed with each exposure and necessitates the use of a \"thin\" in-line dosimeter. Measurements of absorbed dose are readily obtained by \"thin calorimeter\" techniques. A practical limitation to this type of measurement is its insensitivity to point variations in the incident flux. Changes in transmittance, or optical density, of materials such as blue cello-phane or red Cinemoid provide a means of mapping the exposure with reasonable precision. Comparative dosimetric studies were made with titanium, aluminum, and copper calorimeters with thickness as a variable. An in-line pair calorimeter experiment showed that a calorimeter can be used to measure the surface dose to a sample provided the effects of scattering(including back-scattering) and absorption are considered. The change in transmission of the dyed films for a given amount of energy absorbed showed a strong dependance on the ambient oxygen concentration. The oxidation effect is obvious when one compares pulsed and steady-state irradiation in air and in vacuum. Therefore, ambient conditions must be considered in a calibration."
"High-energy electron bombardment of Me-SiO2-Si and Me-Si3N4-Si capacitors has been investigated by means of C-V and G-V measurements. The bombardment usually results in the introduction of positive charge into the insulator. This effect is explained by a physical model which involves interaction of secondary electrons with the insulator lattice to generate electron-hole pairs and predominant trapping of holes in the insulator. Dependence of radiation sensitivity on initial surface state density, gate thickness, oxidation procedure, surface orientation, bombardment bias, and previous radiation history, as well as the annealing behavior was studied."
"Insulated gate field-effect transistors with silicon dioxide and silicon nitride insulationwere irradiated with 1 MeV electrons over a wide range of biasing conditions. In nitride insulated devices the radiation induced shift in gate turn-onvoltage was greatly reduced and source-drain leakage currents eliminated. The dependence of the equilibrium shift in gate turn-on voltage on gate bias varied critically with the structure of the insulating layer, and an attempt has been made to correlate this with charge transfer mechanisms across the interfaces of the insulator."
"The effect on MOS field-effect transistors of moderate doses of ionizing radiation (up to a few tens of kilorads) is a lateral shift in the Id-Vgs characteristic. Experimental results are given here to describe this shift, particularly for low ionizing doses, and from these results a model similar to others recently published is given to describe the mechanisms involved. The experiments are based on measurements of \"small-dose radiation sensitivity\", defined for the MOSFET as the incremental shift of gate threshold voltage with the application of an increment of radiation, i.e. dVT/dØ. Detailed observations of dVT/dØ under a variety of conditions of radiation, bias and temperature, lead to a technique for radiation hardening. Using this technique, the radiation sensitivity can be made negligible for doses up to several thousand rads, at the expense of only minor changes in other device parameters."
"MOSFET devices and microcircuits have been designed and built into flight hardware for use in open operational spacecraft (IMP D&E) by NASA/GSFC. A look at some of the engineering results associated with studying this class of devices for use in these applications is reviewed here. In addition, there is a first-cut engineering study for comparison of performance, in a simulated space radiation environment, of two types of MOSFET's and the newer experimental silicon nitrite devices (MNS-FET). The experiments reported upon are application parameter oriented and of limited sample size. Therefore, no attempt is made to draw any far-reaching conclusions about MOSFET's in general, nor are any devices physics oriented interpretations included."
"Data is presented on a room-temperature instability which has been observed in certain types of MOS systems after bombardment with ionizing radiation. This instability can cause the transfer characteristic of an irradiated MOS transistor to shift rapidly when bias is applied. The shift can be as much as 3 volts for a unit that has been bombarded with 1015 1 MeV electrons/cm2. In order to explain this effect it is postulated that the ionizing radiation introduces a number of surface trapping sites in the oxide which can exchange charge very slowly with silicon. Shifts in transfer characteristic under bombardment, due to immobile charge accumulation in oxide were also observed. The shifts observed were unusual in that they indicate negative charge buildup, which is contrary to the usual finding."
"The effects of transient gamma radiation on thin film insulated gate field effect transistors have been studied. N-and p-channel thin film epitaxial silicon nonjunction devices on insulating sapphire substrates manufactured by Autonetics have been irradiated in the study. The experimental work was performed using a 600 kev flash X-ray. The devices were irradiated in a common source test circuit configuration. A vacuum chamber operated at a pressure of 10-5 Torr was used to eliminate air ionization effects. All data were obtained at a dose of 1.0 rad (LiF)/pulse. The reproducibility of the radiation pulse was monitored by a PIN diode photodetector. The effect on the drain current of transient voltages generated in the gate circuit was observed by varying the external gate resistance. In n-type devices, the drain current transient increased with increasing gate resistance, indicating a positive gate voltage transient. In the p-type devices, there was a transient decrease in the drain current. The magnitude of these signals increased with increasing gate resistance. These data indicate the generation of a positive transient gate voltage in both the n- and p-channel devices. The same data are shown in a nitrogen atmosphere to show the effects of gas ionization leakage currents. Using standard techniques to measure the effect of radiation on the gate dielectric, no conductivity through the dielectric could be detected. Electron emission currents were the predominant effect in the gate circuit."
"The transient response of the polycrystalline CdSe thin-film transistor (TFT) to pulsed ionizing radiation has been experimentally observed. The incremental drain current is characterized by a prompt response followed by a much slower decay, which has a time constant of the order of 100 microseconds. This slow portion of the device response has been shown to be due to trapping processes in the bulk semiconductor film. A model has been developed to explain this response."
"The following conclusions have been obtained from a study of transient radiation effects phenomena on MOS transistors and integrated circuits. The dominant response mechanisms for Sprague MOS transistors packaged in nitrogen encapsulated TO-5 cans have been identified as: radiation induced leakage from. a lead to the case due to ionization of the encapsulated gas, and the primary photocurrent of the drain-substrate p-n junction. The ionization-induced leakage can be reduced considerably by using air or paraffin as an encapsulant or by using a smaller package. For Sprague p-enhancement transistors, the two identified mechanisms are sufficient to explain all observed responses at various load and bias conditions. For Sprague n-depletion transistors, however, additional response mechanisms must yet be identified to fully explain the observed response. The additional response mechanism(s) is believed to be associated with carrier generation in the channel region and, in the active region, the additional drain current can be explained as a transient change in the threshold voltage (VT) of the device. The MOS digital integrated circuits which were tested exhibited transient radiation failure thresholds on the order of 10 to 100 r for radiation pulse widths less than the RC time constants of the circuits (typically, μsec). Both substrate photocurrents and the gm amplification of induced gate voltage changes are instrum. ental in causing failure in microcircuits. No latch-up phenom. ena were observed in any of the microcircuits tested."
"Both the transient radiation response and the permanent radiation damage of thirty-four types of monolithic integrated digital circuits were measured and the critical radiation thresholds for circuit failure were determined. A theory for the transient radiation response of OFF-gates is derived on the basis of primary photocurrent in the collector-substrate junction of the output transistor. From this theory the critical radiation thresholds can be predicted for circuit failure, which is defined in terms of circuit noise margin. The effects of fan-out are included in this theory, but it is shown that fan-in has no effect on the response. The theory is used to explain the qualitative features of the experimental results. The basic features of the transient radiation response of ON-gates are also examined and analyzed. It is demonstrated that the sensitivity of ON-gates can be minimized by a proper choice of supply voltage and circuit design. A theory for permanent damage in monolithic integrated circuits is derived on the basis of existing theory of the degradation of current gain , E in trnsistors. From this theory the criticsl radiation threshold can be predicted for circuit failure which is defined in terms of the increase of the output voltage to levels above which noise margin disappears. This theory is in agreement with the experimentally observed results."
"Previous radiation-effect studies on monolithic microcircuits using p-n junction isolation from the substrate showed that failure under pulsed ionizing irradiation occurred because of radiation-induced currents through the substrate junction.1 It was expected, therefore, that removal of the substrate junction would eliminate this failure mode and lead to a less vulnerable circuit. Since additional construction techniques have become available, a study program was initiated to evaluate the relative radiation resistance of each technique. The goal of this program was to develop an understanding of the radiation response of circuits constructed by means of these various techniques. The following material summarizes the important results of this work, the details of which are reported elsewhere.2 The work Is treated in three subjects: 1. Ionizing Radiation Effects 2. Neutron Radiation Effects 3. Latchup"
"The primary purpose of this study Is to evaluate methods of hardening monolithic Integrated circuits to transient ionizing radiation. This is done by (1) controlling the maximum amount of transistor primary photocurrent through controlled variations In the doping profile, and (2) evaluating different fabrication processes for similar circuits. It Is found that photocurrents for similar geometry transistors can be controlled over a range of better than 2:1 with doping variations. Microcircuit output response can be varied over a range of 10:1 with different fabrication processes. Transistor profiles are evaluated using a computer program developed to predict primary photocurrent. Circuit fabrication variations are: diffused and thin-film resistors, oxide isolation, and p-n junction isolation. The circuit design technique using diode compensation of primary photocurrents is investigated. Oxide isolation was the fabrication process that was the hardest to transient radiation for these particular circuits."
"A satellite-borne magnetometer used to detect magnetohydrodynamic wave propagation within the magnetosphere is introduced. The instrument is a biaxial, closed-loop, fluxgate magnetometer. The unit consists of the basic magnetometer plus additional sections, including a data processor, a field nulling section, and sensitivity selection logic. The basic magnetometer is discussed briefly, the additional sections in greater detail. It is shown that the use of sum and difference amplifiers in the data processor enable the derivation of magnetic field vectors transverse and parallel to the spacecraft spin axis. The field nulling section involves the use of an offset-field-generator to apply discrete current steps to the sensor offset winding in order to null the ambient sensor field. The use of three sensitivity levels is shown to maintain the analog output within the dynamic range of the instrument. An in-flight calibration section is discussed and referenced to instrument stability and sensitivity. A brief discussion of the ATS satellite mentions the advantages of its orbit, which is favorable for the study of long-term magnetic field variations and for correlation with plasma and particle experiments also onboard."
"A three-axis, fluxgate magnetometer was selected for flight on the fifth Orbiting Geophysical Observatory. This instrument, along with an electron telescope, will provide data for the study of magnetohydrodynamic waves and other magnetic field structures in space. The magnetometer has sufficient dynamic range to measure magnetic field values from the surface of the earth to apogee. In addition to this wide dynamic range, the instrument provides for a resolution at all field values of 1/16 gamma. This resolution and dynamic range are accomplished by employing a tightly fed-back, closedloop magnetometer and a digital offset field generator in each of the three mutually perpendicular axes. The analog output of each axis is filtered by active filters to prevent frequency aliasing of the signals. The cutoff frequency of these filters is automatically switched to the proper frequency as the spacecraft telemetry data sampling rate is changed. In-flight calibration circuitry provides front-to-back calibration of each magnetometer channel during the flight. Packaging and construction techniques used in this instrument are also discussed."
"A Study of the effect of gamma radiation upon silicon controlled rectifiers (SCR's) is presented and correlated with electron radiation encountered by spacecraft. Six electrical characteristics of each SCR were measured before, during, and after exposure to radiation. During irradiation some were unbiased, some biased, and others were pulsed electrically. Additionally, two different dose rates of radiation were employed. Test results are presented in graphic form, showing each of the six characteristics as a function of the total accumulated dose."
"Typical performance of this transductor circuit includes a long-term stability of a few parts in 105, an output noise level less than 0.002% of full output voltage, and a pass band from 0 to 1 MHz. The circuit provides low-pass, band-pass, and high-pass sections, suitably designed to provide a uniform frequency response. The circuit configuration inherently filters out the commutation noise, thus providing a high signal-to-noise ratio."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"A measurement system for obtaining pressure and heat-transfer data from models flying freely in hypersonic tunnel streams is described. Test models are either released from suspension threads or launched by low-velocity pneumatic launchers and have internal miniaturized frequency-modulated telemetry units. This technique permits the historically desired measurement of support-free afterbody pressure and heat-transfer rates. Base heating and pressure measurements for a cone and a sphere in free flight are included to illustrate application."
"In a large hyperballistics range, detection of projectiles atstations becomes more complex. Range length permits variation of projectile luminosity and requires greater area for detection. A technique has been devised, using electrooptics, triggering instrumented stations with luminous or nonluminous projectiles. The phototube circuit response, effect of velocity, and effect of light screen thickness on performance are discussed. Data on performance are presented for velocities of 10 000 to 21 000 feet per second. Performance is predicted for velocities of 40 000 and 60 000 feet per second. Nonluminous models as small as 3/16-inch diameter spheres have been detected at a velocity of 21 000 feet per second."
"A family of 4-wire electronic equipments is being developed for use in a tactical switching system for the field army. The characteristics and design of two automatic switchboards to be used in the system are discussed, as well as the signaling methods and numbering plan that are employed."
"A design approach for a Malfunction Detection System (MDS) to beused on board a manned spacecraft is considered. This design is directed toward orbiting laboratory type vehicles, in which man will be subjected to hostile environments for extended periods of time. The prime purpose of the MDS will be to monitor and evaluate critical signals and display out-of-tolerance conditions. This paper initially discusses a mathematical model approach to a monitoring-system design. Another topic covered is the feasibility of using some value less than the specified tolerance as a signal \"test\" limit. Finally, various design decisions and trade-offs involved in choosing a monitoring subsystem configuration are discussed, and the conclusion is that the approach is feasible and could be expanded to include other capabilities."
"The effects of frequency multiplication circuits on the short-term stability of an oscillator system are analyzed. The short-term stability of real components such as varactor multipliers are compared to the short-term stability of an \"ideal\" frequency multiplier which maintains the stability of the basic oscillator. In addition, it is shown that positive feedback like that used in a synchronized oscillator, while useful for tracking, degrades short-term stability."
"The development of a system to perform first-order airborne geodetic surveying is described. It is shown how existing distance measuring techniques were applied to solve the operational requirement for a system that can measure the length of lines up to 900 nautical miles long with a probable error of 0.0017 nautical miles, and determine the nadir points of aerial photographs within twenty-four feet for ninety percent of the measurements. The implementation of the Distance Measuring Equipment (DME) using a CW carrier phase modulated by four ranging tones is described at the block diagram level, it is shown that modulation with a large index (twelve radians) reduces the ranging errors associated with multipath propagation which formerly were a significant source of error in DME systems. Results of a flight test program are presented."
"Electrooptical systems exist which can make use of the available bandwidth and directivity at optical frequencies without utilizing the coherence aspects of lasers. Development of a sensitive, very highspeed (microwave response) photoelectric detector which can function as a high-gain microwave amplifier and mixer is described. Sysyems are described for radar, communications, and reconnaissance purposes. Basic noise considerations are shown. CW and FM-CW optical range and range rate tracking systems are described in which the required detection bandwidth is not a direct function of the range resolution, allowing highly accurate range and range rate determination at low signal levels. Communication systems utilizing noncoherent carriers, microwave subcarriers, and the dynamic crossed field electron multiplier as the detector-amplifier-mixer are described."
"A Loran-C Receiver is used as an example to show how an analog system could be converted to a digital one to take advantage of the expanding integrated circuit technology. The digital equivalents of the analog servo elements are described. Criteria for the design of a phase-tracking servomechanism is developed in detail. The Loran performance requirements are used to illustrate their application. The noise performance of a critically damped Type II servomechanism is derived in detail. Since the system will be employed in aircraft, tracking velocity becomes an important consideration. An analysis is made showing that an adaptive control is desirable."
"A breadboard microwave pointing device (ElectroTransit) has been designed, fabricated, and tested. The device and accompanying RF sources comprise a portable, battery-operated, azimuth angle measuring system with application in surveying, mapping, and geodesy, and for conducting basic research in tropospheric propagation and turbulence studies. The angle measuring sensor combines a Ka-band interferometer with an optical theodolite to provide two modes of pointing. Azimuth angle can be read directly to 0.1 arc-second. Preliminary tests on the interferometer show a pointing repeatability on the order of two arc-seconds, three sigma, when tropospheric turbulence is minimum and a mean absolute error of less than 10 arc-seconds, three sigma, compared with first-order optical standards. This paper describes the design, fabrication, and testing of this extremely precise instrumentation."
"Crowding of the Military communication spectrum has aggravated the need for preselectors capable of receiving a low-level desired signal in the presence of a high-level adjacent channel signal. Described herein are two novel HF preselection approaches which appear eminently suitable to cope with this problem. Applicable to the frequency range of 2 to 30 Mc/s, one preselector employs parametric mixing and the other exploits the low loss properties of superconductivity. In addition to other advantageous features, both preselectors have demonstrated an outstanding dynamic range capability in the order of 140 dB. Each of the preselectors is evaluated as a conventiona1 filter. In addition, performance data of a high quality military receiver is compared with that obtained when the receiver is preceded by each of two preselectors. Considerable stress is placed on the use of crossmodulation characteristics as a more meaningful and precise measure of preselector performance."
"Efficient use of booster development programs by accommodation of secondary payloads, together with maximum utilization of off-theshelf equipment, developed and space proven on other programs, makes it possible to place scientific experiments into earth orbit at comparatively low cost. A low-cost vehicle designated the OV2-1, developed for the Office of Aerospace Research, is described in some detail, starting with mission requirements, and covering each electronic subsystem, the electronic checkout equipment, and testing."
"This project is to demonstrate and refine a computer programming concept known as Generalized Data Management as exemplified by the Advanced Data Management (ADAM) System developed by the MITRE Corporation for the Electronic Systems Division/MITRE Systems Design Laboratory. ADAM is designed to provide generalized routines for functions common to a large class of command and management problems. Although earlier implementations of the Generalized Data Management concept have been demonstrated, ADAM has not been demonstrated in an operational application. The Air Force Logistics Command has provided an application (Category I and IIR Consumption Item Requirements Computation System) with which to test ADAM. The Requirements System provides Logistics Command managers with information concerning stock items to buy, procurement contracts to terminate, items to repair, and budgets. ADAM implementation will provide an on-line real-time information system; the present Requirements System operates in a non-real-time batch processing mode. The usefulness of providing an on-line system, which can be easily modified, will be evaluated."
"A panel session held at the 1965 Aerospace Conference, Houston,Tex., June 23, 1965. Panelists discussed Life-Suppport interfaces with Electric Power; Communications; Navigation; System Integration for Future Space Programs; and Reliability."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Lists the institutions that support this publication."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"Lifetime earnings of a high school graduate of $150 000 can be increased to $725 000 with a doctorate. Continued study is required to \"stand still\" with an engineering half life of ten years. These points, among others, point to the value of investment in continued education."
"The fundamental problem of inertial navigation, double integration of acceleration to obtain position, is defined and discussed. Mechanizations of both space-stable and local-vertical platform systems are exhibited. The synthesis problem for an electrically suspended gyro (ESG) strapdown system is defined and discussed: readout, readout errors due to vehicle motion, synchronization of readout with system computer, alignment, correction and calibration for mass unbalance drift, and digital mechanization. Alignment, calibration, and acceleration measurement are also discussed. Sources of error involved in the electronic gimbaling including those peculiar to strapdown configuration are discussed and compared to mechanically gimbaled systems. Advanced developments required in the component and systems areas are listed, and it is shown that such development will lead to reduced complexity, higher accuracy, and increased reliability and utility for inertial systems."
"An instrumentation tracker is described which provides real-time positional data on high-speed cooperative targets with precisions of ±1 m at ranges between 300 m and 10 km. Unambiguous range is determined by a precise digital FM-CW ranging technique at a rate of 15 per second. A target-mounted beacon and a narrow laser ranging beam permit measurement of target position to values much less than target dimension. Azimuth and elevation angles are read out by precision shaft angle encoders and recorded in binary form, along with range and time, on magnetic tape or directly into a real-time computer."
"Prepared specifically for those engineers having responsibility for the design, evaluation, or application of mechanical or electromechanical parts and components, the state-of-the-art in nonelectronic component reliability is examined from the viewpoint of history, ancient and modern. A technique is presented to measure the relative overall effect of failure of nonelectronic components in so-called electronic systems. Failure data from the 413L system are analyzed to reveal significant failure modes and mechanisms which are of value in designing for, or assessing the reliability of, a specific component. An overall \"Figure of Hazard\" for failure mechanisms is presented."
"This paper describes an SHF receiver capable of demodulating analog or digital information rates of up to 50 Mc/s. The receiver is a dual conversion superheterodyne design having a first IF of 1660 Mc/s and a second IF of 445 Mc/s. The model was developed as part of an Air Force contract to study and evaluate design techniques aimed at increasing reliability of aerospace SHF communication equipment. Semiconductor circuitry is used throughout, in addition to numerous deposited thin film circuits for reliability enhancement. The second IF amplifier design is unique in that all circuit components, with the exception of the semiconductors, are deposited, whereas more conventional microelectronics approaches to date have employed externally connected, discrete-component, frequency-selective devices, such as tunable IF coils or filter networks."
"Machine analysis of aerial reconnaissance data is desirable. New acquisition techniques, equipment, and sensors, plus a growing demand for rapidly obtained, accurate information necessitate machine performance of tasks presently accomplished by observers and interpreters. Many of these tasks can be described as pattern recognition or information processing functions. This paper discusses significant problems encountered when attempting to identify objects or regions automatically from aerial photography. Problems include sensor distortions, variations in target environment, and concepts of design and \"teaching\" of an actual device. Operational requirements such as processing speed and flexibility restrict the types of solutions available. Approaches to target recognition with relative merits and shortcomings are presented; these include shape correlation, feature extraction, and image quantization. The effect of mission requirements on system parameters is discussed. A bibliography is included."
"The basic design of a nonlinear, time-invariant filter is postulated for detecting signal pulses of known shape imbedded in nonstationary noise. The noise is a sample function of a Gaussian random process whose statistics are approximately constant during the length of a signal pulse. The parameters of the filter are optimized to maximize the output signal-to-noise ratio (SNR). The resulting nonlinear filter has the interesting property of approximating the performance of an adaptive filter in that it weights each frequency band of each input pulse by a factor that depends on the instantaneous noise power spectrum present at that time. The SNR at the output of the nonlinear filter is compared to that at the output of a matched filter. The relative performance of the nonlinear system is good when the signal pulses have large time-bandwidth products and the instantaneous noise power spectrum is colored in the signal pass band."
"Test instrumentation is described for use in the measurement of threshold sensitivities and noise bandwidths of narrow-band phase-locked receivers. The method is statistical in nature with the data being recorded digitally by a counter and printer. Scale factors can be selected for convenient relation of the data to the standard deviations, 1,2, or 3 sigma. Curves are included showing the results of a typical experiment."
"The economic analysis of maintainability is concerned with the selection of one of several feasible alternative maintenance resource allocations. The available resources are specified by the operational deployment of the prime mission equipment. Operational requirements such as reaction time, on-station time, dispersal time, and mission time will directly affect maintenance doctrine and hardware. The complexity of the cost-operations-maintenance interaction and the consequences of decision are such that the selection of an alternative cannot be done by chance or by the adoption of the first feasible solution. This paper discusses the application of appropriate analytic techniques to the formulation of a cost-effective tactical doctrine."
"STADAR is a Servo Tester with Automatic Data Acquisition and Reduction developed for the Apollo program. This paper describes the operational capability of STADAR and discusses certain aspects of the design. STADAR evaluates system performance by supplying an input stimuli and two data acquisition and analysis channels. Stimuli (0.02-30 c/s 0-10 V peak) are automatically programmed to a frequency accuracy of ±0.01 percent and an amplitude accuracy of ± 0.1 percent. Data acquisition accuracy is 0.1 percent or 50 microvolts. System design utilizes programmable data filters to improve system S/N ratio. Active filter mechanization methods and results are presented as well as techniques for instantaneous precise generation of stimuli which are automatically programmed."
"Flutter and time errors are critical factors in all instrumentation recording. This paper presents analytically the relationship between flutter, time base error, and time base error difference (sometimes called jitter), and the effects of these factors on direct and FM recording. Methods of measuring these quantities are discussed and experimental examples are given. Finally, a measurement method for the interchannel time error is presented, and some trends of correlation among all channels are discussed."
"The particular circumstances of individual equipment procurements necessitate variations in the methods used to demonstrate Reliability. This paper discusses six separate Reliability Demonstrations, the variations from standard Reliability methodology required by each, and the general principles illustrated by each. In addition, the first example is accompanied by cost data which computes the operating cost reduction caused by design changes resulting from the Reliability Demonstration."
"When pulse compression having a bandwidth approximately equal to the desired short CW pulse is incorporated in an array to obtain longer pulses as well as good range resolution, the question of system response, gain, and resolution as a function of θ arises. An array's response to an expanded or complex waveform can not always be visualized or calculated. The theorem stated and proven in this note has shown that an array's response to an expanded or complex waveform is identical to the response obtained by the waveform's compressed pulse shape. That is, the antenna's response is dependent only upon the co-mpressed pulse shape and not on the expanded or complex wavefo:rm used to transmit the desired energy or information. If a given short pulse is to be extracted from a radar's signal processing section, it is unimportant whether linear-FM. nonlinear FM, step frequency pulse coding, etc., is used."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Lists the institutions that support this publication."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"Engineering schools have a responsibility to provide a science background upon which graduates may build to solve the across-the-discipline challenges of tomorrow. They cannot and should not train for solutions to today's problems. Schools must insure that their faculty continues its education beyond the Doctor's degree by means of workshops, professional meetings, and involvement in investigation and research. Individuals must, however, retain primary responsibility for investment of time, energy, and effort necessary to remain a productive member of the profession for their career."
"The array approach to increasing space-communication capability is analyzed and discussed. The problem of signal acquisition is given particular attention. A lower range bound of array operation is defined by assuming a system which employs independent acquisition by each antenna circuit; an upper bound is defined by assuming a prefocused array. It is believed that systems can be implemented which have capabilities well in excess of that achievable by the former system and not greatly less than that achievable by the latter system."
"A two-port with both generator and load constitutes a closed system; it can be defined as a system with only interdependent variables or as a system containing no independent variables. The flowgraph describes the relationships between variables in a closed system as determined by the topology of its components. The corresponding closed flowgraph represents a zero-port network from which N-port networks can be generated as subsets by truncation of the closed system. A constraint governing any closed system expressing the properties of its cut-sets and tie-sets is referred to as the topology equation. The topology equation can be computed from the sum of loops in the closed flowgraph, and forms the key for the derivation of properties of closed systems and derived N-port subsets. Oscillators analyzed as zero-ports are discussed in detail to illustrate the rationale for the flowgraph approach to closed systems. To exploit the closed system model conceptually and computationally for N-ports, an approach is suggested and illustrated for N = 1 by an analysis of transfer functions and for N = 2 by a sensitivity analysis of stochastic networks."
"For many military applications, low-frequency oscillators are required which maintain their frequency within 5 parts in 104 after they have been exposed to an acceleration of 30 000 g and also after a storage period of 5 years. In addition, the same stability must exist while a constant acceleration of, say, 5000 g is applied. The characteristics of mechanical systems and various electrical circuits proposed for time bases will be summarized. It will be shown that oscillators, based on the use of RC networks and solid-state negative feedback amplifiers, can fulfill the requirements. It will also be shown that, for cost reduction, the conventional amplitude control over many cycles can be replaced by an instantaneous limiter without detrimental effects on stability. A hybrid timer, consisting of an electronic oscillator, synchronizing a spring-driven mechanical clock, is suggested."
"Secure ground-to-ground communication links, communication from satellites and space probes, and coherent optical logic in high-speed integrated computers lie within the realm of semiconductor single lasers or laser arrays. Lasers of this type have the advantage of extremely small size, ease of direct modulation, and high efficiency. Ruggedness and simplicity of pumping promise high reliability for military electronics. A discussion is presented on design considerations, technological problems, and performance of p-n junction lasers for short range communication systems. After a brief review of fundamental principles for lasing action in semiconductors, an account is presented of previously unpublished technological procedures required to achieve GaAs laser diodes with high output in the coherent beam at a high pulse rate required to operate a pulse code, modulated voice transmission system. A description is given of wafer preparation, diffusion of extremely planar p-n junctions, and the formation of ohmic, low-resistance area contacts. Measurement techniques to determine the performance characteristics of these lasers with respect to such factors as threshold current density, maximum output power, external quantum efficiency, spectral distribution, and linewidth of emitted radiation are discussed."
"A method of improving angular discrimination artificially in radar beacon systems, without going to extremely high frequencies of operation or using unreasonably large interrogator antennas, involves the use of a null-type antenna pattern superposed on a normal directional beam. The effective are over which replies are obtained is determined by an amplitude discriminator circuit within the beacon which compares the amplitude of the pulse signals received on the null pattern with those received via the directional beam. Only if the latter exceed the former by a predetermined amount does the beacon produce a reply. The method, which has been tried experimentally and its theory verified, produces an increase in traffic handling capacity, as well as improved angular resolution, by reducing unwanted triggering and, hence, clutter on the display and the over-interrogation of transponder beacons. An antenna is described which eliminates triggering on sidelobes by providing the proper current distribution to the radiating elements to cause the null pattern to cover the sidelobes of the normal beam. Triple-pulse amplitude discriminators have been built and tested in a double-pulse interrogation system. Some theoretical considerations and design curves and equations for use in designing nulltype antennas are given in the Appendix."
"A tactical system designed to inspect and diagnose malfunctions in all army tactical vehicles including jeeps, trucks, and tanks is known as Ready Multipurpose Automatic Inspection and Diagnostic System (READYMAIDS). The laboratory model developed to prove the feasibility of design is discussed together with design problems such as instrumenting a vehicle without modifications. The system uses a small digital computer in addition to switching, measurement, and loading devices. These devices are integrated into a small transportable unit. Results to date, problem areas, and possible solutions are described."
"The use of a two-lobe monopulse radar for measuring slant range to the surface of the earth in the absence of discrete targets is analyzed. It is shown that tracking dispersion can be considered as the resultant of two components. One component is independent of range and results from the finite pulse length and gate length and the random nature of the return signals. The other component is due to receiver noise and increases as the signal-to-noise ratio decreases. The dispersion component independent of range is shown to be proportional to the pulse length and tracking gate length. The variable dispersion is shown to be proportional to the five halves power of the range and the three halves power of the cotangent of the depression angle of the antenna boresight axis. Performance calculations for a specific radar are carried out and compared with experimental data."
"Aircraft maintenance has, since its conception, relied primarily on two methods of fault detection and isolation: 1) in-flight observation and reporting by flight personnel 2) ground operation or testing of airborne systems and equipment. Both methods, even when combined to the optimum, are not always sufficient to pinpoint the exact cause of trouble or locate a defective component. A third method, which analyzes airborne system's performance through various techniques of multiparameter sampling, has recently come into the picture and is showing significant promise for advancing the present state-of-the-art in aircraft maintenance. Systems utilizing this technique are discussed and examples of their benefits cited. These benefits not only encompass detection and isolation of defective units or components, but also include predicting impending malfunctions."
"A height-finding technique utilizing the relative phase between a series of point sources of a traveling-wave array is described. The point sources in the focal region of a torus antenna are used to control the phase of the antenna elevation pattern in space. Signals received from a given beam angle will arrive at each terminal of the traveling-wave feed with a different phase. By comparing this phase with a reference phase, the angular direction of an arriving plane wave can be measured with considerable accuracy. Thus a radar system with a single antenna and feed structure can be employed to yield instantaneous height coverage along with the usual range data."
"Discoloration of ZnO from ultraviolet absorption can be produced in the laboratory, but is most severe in extraterrestrial environments, when microcrystalline ZnO is used as a pigment for spacecraft thermal control surfaces. Understanding of this degradation process should lead to development of pigments with improved thermal stability under prolonged ultraviolet exposure. It is noted that movement of photoexcited holes to the surfaces of crystallites, followed by oxygen evolution from the lattice and the creation of interstitial zinc (which causes the optical degradation), can continue indefinitely if the interstitial zinc is able to migrate inwards. The evidence supports a finite mobility for interstitial zinc at temperatures as low as 300°K. Doping techniques aimed at minimizing the tendency towards continued degradation are discussed."
"This paper presents the theoretical probability densities of the outputs of both an amplitude-comparison monopulse radar and a phase-comparison monopulse radar when the monopulse radars are excited by Gaussian signals plus Gaussian noises. These probability densities are useful for studying the responses of monopulse radars to noise excitations. For example: Noise excitations arise when the monopulse radars are \"viewing\" a noise source or a radar target consisting of randomly moving scatterers. The probability densities also serve as useful approximations for characterizing the outputs of monopulse radars when sinusoidal signals plus Gaussian noises excite the monopulse radars. Some special cases of the probability densities are presented in graphs."
"One purpose of the GEMINI program is to study the problem of and establish techniques associated with acquisition, tracking, and photography of terrestrial objects from the orbiting spacecraft. This paper describes a ground-based simulation which was performed to obtain a realistic understanding of this problem and to provide the astronauts with preflight experience. The results presented evaluate the test subjects' performance in terms of tracking-rate errors, position errors, and fuel consumption for various orbital altitudes and target offsets."
"The potential of airborne radar to provide pictorial displays as an aid to low approach has stimulated invention of several aircraft approach systems. Early developments are reviewed briefly, and an experiment in producing and flight testing a two-dimensional, range and azimuth, pictorial radar display is described. The monopulse radar equipment and a monopulse display improvement (MDI) technique used in the flight test to enhance the B-scope display are also described in some detail. Representative radar scope photographs are used to illustrate the display available in the aircraft."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Lists the institutions that support this publication."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"Flowgraph techniques are extended to systems with piecewise-linear characteristics by developing criteria for construction of an optimum model from related subregions in which linearity holds. This requires the synthesis of several known techniques and results in a wide range of useful applications including: 1) devices with nonlinear characteristics which may be considered as linear over certain subregions; 2) networks whose response to changes in applied signal frequency or magnitude may be approximated by piecewise-linear asymptotes; 3) systems processing two or more signals simultaneously with different transfer or immitance characteristics for each signal; 4) circuits approximated by different equivalent circuits depending on the numerical values of critical parameters. Representative examples will illustrate these and similar applications. Procedures are presented to provide a logical, orderly, and effective approach to construct a model, to determine figures of merit, and to optimize the model for a prescribed region of operation or for a desired range of parameters."
"This paper presents a method of greatly simplifying the processing of received signals from antenna arrays through the use of a coherent optical system for signal processing. It is shown that a coherent optical system is ideally suited for carrying out beamforming operations. Several other advantages of coherent optics for this application are also discussed. A major result is a technique for forming several unambiguous beams simultaneously by correlating the signals from two linear arrays. The coherent optics technique permits this operation to be carried out with extreme simplicity."
"This paper describes bit-plane encoding, a technique for reducing redundancy in data gathered in space probes. The results of testing bit-plane encoding on particular data gathered by Explorer XII are summarized, and the technique is compared with alternative schemes for encoding the same data. Bit-plane encoding is intended for use aboard spacecraft. The technique presumes input data in binary form. The encoder implementation consists of a memory to store data samples, a monitor, and a code box. Both the monitor and the code box perform simple operations on binary sequences. Bit-plane encoding is especially useful when the data have an amplitude spectrum which is concentrated in different ranges in different time intervals. With a stored group of 128 samples, bit-plane encoding could be used to describe energetic particle counts gathered by Explorer XII with less than 50 percent as many bits as were actually used, and with no loss of information. The technique also conveniently allows certain useful information destroying operations."
"This paper derives and graphically illustrates the performance characteristics of Phase-Shift-Keyed communication systems where the receiver's phase reference is noisy and derived from the observed waveform by means of a narrow-band tracking filter (a phase-locked loop). In particular, two phase measurement methods are considered. One method requires the transmission of an auxiliary carrier (in practice, this signal is usually referred to as the sync subcarrier). This carrier is tracked at the receiver by means of a phase-locked loop, and the output of this loop is used as a reference signal for performing a coherent detection. The second method is self-synchronizing in that the reference signal is derived from the modulated data signal by means of a squaring-loop. The statistics (and their properties) of the differenced-correlator outputs are derived and graphically illustrated as a function of the signal-to-noise ratio existing in the tracking filter's loop bandwidth and the signal-to-noise ratio in the data channel. Conclusions of these results as well as design trends are presented."
"For large military R&D Projects, Contract Definition type contracts are meeting the cost-effectiveness challenge by an intensive study of the total value considerations in a project before it starts. This has extended the application of total value concepts throughout all project activities and broadened their scope. Total value concepts are discussed and applied to various aspects of system effectiveness. The effects of configuration, reliability, and system availability upon overall costs are considered, and cost vs. performance optimization curves are shown. Practical measures of service life are calculated. Break-even curves relating acquisition and operational costs are shown. A decision matrix method for assessing system value is included. A case study graphically showing the effects of value considerations on a typical radar antenna tower is contained in the paper."
"Optimum linear filter and control theory is applied to the practical problem of supplementing an inertial navigation system with discrete reference information. The information takes the form of position obtained from Loran C or Decca, for example, and occasional azimuth fixes obtained from star sightings. In particular, optimum use of this information is discussed for the Ship's Inertial Navigation System (SINS) installations intended for missile carrying submarines and warships. A model representative of the SINS dynamics is formulated appropriate for application of optimum filter and control theory. Interpretation of the optimum control dictated in part by the augmented SINS model is discussed. Simulation studies that show the relative transient behavior and the stabilizing effect of the closed-loop filter and control processes are also presented."
"The delay-lock loop is a device for tracking the delay difference between two correlated waveforms. It is used as a synchronizing loop for binary communications and tracking. The delay tracking performance is derived for various radio-frequency implementations of the binary delay-lock loop. Amplitude and biphase modulation by pseudorandom sequences are considered. Three types of receivers are analyzed for each modulation: envelope correlation, phase-coherent correlation, and phase-lock demodulation followed by video correlation."
"This paper considers the effect of the rocket exhaust turbulence and scattering within the surrounding medium upon the propagation characteristics of incident electromagnetic waves. The exhaust is represented by a cylindrical plasma beam, diffusing through the surrounding medium. The equations of propagation of EM waves are derived for both TE and TM modes. By using a quasi-linear perturbation technique the exhaust is further separated into an inner homogeneous cylindrical plasma beam, and an outer conical inhomogeneous turbulent region. The isotropic change in the temperature of the outer region and its effects on the fluctuations in the density of electrons, collision frequency, and plasma index of refraction are analyzed in detail. It is found that the exhaust turbulence and scattering effects produce linear fluctuations in the E and H fields computed from the exhaust inner region effect. The equations of this paper can be used in the prediction of the radar cross sections and the attenuation of microwaves by rocket exhaust plumes."
"A method is presented for the selection of a communication system based upon optimization of both frequency-dependent and frequency independent parameters. The indicator of quality used is the effective radiated power per cycle per second of information bandwidth. The method involves consideration of the frequency-dependent qualities such as system temperature and propagation losses independently from the frequency-independent quantities such as modulation loss, signal-to-noise ratio, performance margin, etc. Except for temperature and propagation loss effects, the method is made frequency-independent by considering the spacecraft antenna in terms of area while the ground terminal antenna is treated in terms of gain, thus removing wavelength from the transmission equation. An example is presented of the application of the method to the selection of a system for transmission of wide-band video signals over a satellite to earth link. The example illustrates the exchanges that can be made between the frequency-dependent and -independent quantities in order to arrive at an optimum system."
"MILDATA was an Army-sponsored exploratory development study in the area of digital computer technology. Its objective was to explore and evaluate new organizational concepts for hardware and software in a tactical command control information system (CCIS) and to develop new measures of effectiveness and methods for evaluating system performance. It was assumed that the MILDATA system would be operational in the field army during the time frame 1975-1985. A unique feature of the MILDATA concept is an unprecedented degree of modularity which provides flexibility to fulfill a wide variety of tactical data processing requirements. This paper supplies necessary background on CCIS requirements and develops modular design criteria. It then summarizes MILDATA study requirements and the general nature of the results obtained and outlines a program of future work. Finally, an attempt is made to systematize the experience gained during MILDATA as an aid to the organization of future exploratory development studies."
"The Optimum Stabilization of a tumbling satellite via Hamilton-Jacobi theory has been reported by one of the authors before in \"On the optimum stabilization of a satellite\" [2]. This companion paper discusses the synthesis of a specific optimum control law for the same problem and compares the results with the optimum solution. It is shown that a specific optimum control law yields, acceptable performance while being much easier to instrument than the optimum control law."
"Joint maximum likelihood estimators are presented for the signal amplitude and noise power density in a coherent PCM channel with white Gaussian noise and a correlation receiver. The estimates are based upon the correlation coefficient outputs of the receiver. From these estimators, an estimator for the quantity (received signal energy)/bit/,(noise power)/(unit bandwidth) upon which the error probabilities depend, is derived. This estimator is shown to be useful as 1) a point estimator for the signal-to-noise ratio for the higher values of this ratio (about 4 dB or greater), and 2) an easily calculated statistic upon which to base data acceptance or rejection criteria. The acceptance or rejection levels are obtained by the use of confidence interval curves in conjunction with word error probability data."
"To answer questions about EMP hardness of shock-hardened sites, one might employ an electromagnetic diagnostic testing procedure. An idealized procedure is presented as a model for more realistic tests. The procedure is to determine the Green's or Transfer function of the site using infinitesimal electric and magnetic dipole oscillators. The Green's function is comprised of the set of measured electric and magnetic fields when the oscillators are operated at each point, with each orientation and frequency. It is shown how the fields within the site are predicted, given knowledge of the currents in air producing the EMP, or the tangential components of the fields on the earth's surface."
"This correspondence considers the response of the PLL near threshold to an input consisting of a modulated carrier and white, Gaussian noise. For high input signal-to-noise power ratios ρ, the output noise power is Gaussian with a parabolic spectrum. As ρ is decreased, the PLL tends to lose lock which gives rise to impulses or \"spikes\" in the output with a resulting white power spectrum. The additional output noise due to these \"spikes\" causes a threshold in the output signal-to-noise ratio. Unfortunately the loss of lock rate in the PLL depends on the modulation as well as the noise power. A semiempirical approximate expression for the loss of lock rate as a function of the noise and sinusoidal frequency modulation is presented and is used to determine the optimum design procedure for PLL's to demodulate FM signals of varying modulation indexes, ß."
"The 1966 Aerospace Systems Conference (Seattle, WA, USA) Record is being issued as a SUPPLEMENT to this issue of TRANSACTIONS. The technical papers published in the SUPPLEMENT are indexed below with the Abstracts of published papers following in the same order. The criteria utilized for the review of the conference material are printed in the SUPPLEMENT. \"Presented only\" indicates that the paper is being presented at the conference but is not published in the SUPPLEMENT."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Lists the institutions that support this publication."
"Presents the front cover of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"This conference was originally scheduled in 1964 by the Group on Aerosp ace Systems. Since th at time four groups have merged to form the Group on Aerospace and Electronic Systems and we ha ve been unswerving in our efforts to insure a technical program which reflects th e interests of all four founder groups without partiality. We have directed attention primarily toward th e technical program and have scheduled all other events in a manner to insure minimum interference or competition with paper sessions. A national committee has reviewed the entire text of eachpaper and accepted only those which are systems oriented and of Transactions quality. Session scheduling was iterated to provide multi-discipline-oriented engineers an opportunity to he ar authors in several areas."
"Provides a listing of current committee members."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"The following author listings include title of paper, page number, and month."
"Two general computer programs were developed during a recent preliminary power-system design study of a Lunar Mobile Laboratory (MOLAB) for NASA. A digital computer optimization program determines a minimum weight fuel cell primary power system for MOLAB, given the manufacturer's basic fuel cell data and various system constraints. An analog computer representation determines continuous transient and steady-state performance of the MOLAB fuel cell power system and electric locomotion system, for various driving modes and lunar surface conditions."
"The electrical power control and conditioning subsystem developed under NASA* Contract NASl-4479 represents an integrated, operational design for the Manned Orbital Research Laboratory (MORL) to support 6 men in space for 5 years. The power conditioning systems discussed in recent engineering papers have generally been planned for unmanned craft or were for optimizations of specific electrical loads of modest demand levels, and used conventional battery, solar cell/battery, or fuel cell energy sources. Therefore, an advanced design to supply a greater (by an order-of-magnitude) electrical demand from a radioisotope-dynamic generator drive system, and which meets manned spacecraft design criteria, represents a significant and unique contribution to aerospace electrical design. This paper identifies and discusses (1) the unique electrical design criteria and constraints associated with the radioisotope Brayton cycle drive system, (2) the tradeoff considerations which were necessary to optimize the total system with respect to speed, frequency, and efficiency, (3) the rationale for the selection of the alternator and the frequency converters, and (4) the distribution system design criteria which were established to assure flexibility, efficiency, maintainability, and safe emergency operations. The control system concept and its integration with the energy storage subsystems will also be discussed."
"Theoretical and experimental analyses are presented which describe the operation and characteristics of a hypersonic plasma generator for reentry vehicles. In Section I, the principle of the generator operation is outlined, previous results are briefly reviewed, and supporting arc tunnel experimental data are included. In Section II, the ionization enhancement by nose cone cesium seeding of the flow field is analyzed with special attention given to the nonequilibrium chemical reaction between cesium atoms and ionized air species. Section III extends the results of the previous two sections to reentry applications using several typical ballistic and super-orbital reentry trajectories."
"Reasons for using electroexplosive devices in aerospace vehicles are given. A number of different electroexplosive devices are illustrated and their uses are described. The explosive materials used in these devices are discussed in two classes: propellants and high explosives. Methods for controlling deflagration or detonation to achieve desired effects are discussed. Construction of a typical electroexplosive cartridge is described, with special reference to the bridgewire-explosive system. A \"bridge-wire equation\" is suggested for determining the functioning characteristics of the system. The method of determining the reliability of these \"one-shot\" items is compared to that used for devices which may be operated for a number of cycles. Safety of handling electroexplosive devices is discussed along with a few common-sense rules for accident prevention."
"The sensitivity of some constraint variations on minimum weight hydrogen-oxygen fuel-cell systems of the 1970-1980 time period were investigated. Relative changes in fuel-cell system component weights are shown for variations in mission and vehicle parameters and constraints such as power quality and quantity, operating environment and radiator area limitation. Examples show the relative effects on fuel-cell system minimum weight, of improving voltage regulation with voltage regulators and augmenting radiator cooling with evaporative water cooling."
"Vented secondary-storage batteries supply reserve electrical power to operate certain, essential aircraft equipment if primary power is not available. These vented batteries, however, are prone to premature failure. Spewed electrolyte and expelled hydrogen gas promoted by malmaintenance such as overfilling and underfilling the cells and by improper voltage regulation during charging lead to battery and equipment damage and failure and result in flight safety hazards and economic losses. Sealed batteries show promise of avoiding the shortcomings and maintenance aspects of the vented batteries. This paper concerns the efforts of the Air Force to apply sealed-battery technology to aircraft battery power needs."
"This paper considers the feasibility of extending the application of Bi2Te3 alloy solar thermoelectric flat plate generators to auxiliary power systems for exploratory missions directed toward the sun. The incident solar radiation fluxes would range from 130 to 1000 watts per ft2. The principal potential advantages of flat plate solar generator technology for these high solar fluxes are increased power per unit area, increased power per unit weight, increased power per unit cost, and increased radiation resistance. Design equations and computational techniques are discussed which allow approximate solution of the generator output power as a function of distance from launch. Commercially available Bi2Te3 alloy, PbTe, and Si-Ge alloy materials are considered separately."
"To meet the demand for light-weight mobile power, turboalternator sets can be operated at ultra-high speeds approaching 100 000 r/min. The high frequency alternator output is converted by static devices to standard ac frequencies and/or dc power for utilization. This paper describes the design of brushless alternator systems for such applications. The particular suitability of the homopolar inductor generator is cited. Special features are described, including methods of limiting pole face losses, windage and other losses. The operating conditions require particular attention to material selection. Interface problems between the alternator and turhine are also discussed."
"In former papers 1,2,3 the authors have analyzed the behavior of homopolar inductor alternators, considering all non-linearities and load conditions. As a logical sequence, a means to find the main dimensions of a new design for a specific aerospace power system is presented. The limitations imposed by the high-speed operation are pointed out. Dimensional analysis is used as a method for optimizing alternators for minimum armature leakage for frequency-changing power system. The relation of slot width to slot depth of the armature is optimized for minimum excitation."
"A brushless d-c motor system with a unique position-sensing device has been developed. This position-sensing device works on the principle of varying magnetic reluctance and is called a reluctance switch. The reluctance switch consists of a magnetic structure excited by a high-frequency oscillator. Sensing windings on the stator sense the position of the salientpole rotor which is mechanically attached to the motor rotor. The reluctance switch, in addition to the commutation function, makes simple the incorporation of speed control by pulsewidth modulation or position control. Other unique control functions can be obtained with modifications. The developed motor is a torque motor intended for operation in space. Solid lubricant bearings and materials reflect this intended environment. The motor utilizes a permanent-magnet rotating field with a three-circuit stationary armature. The armature is driven from a three-phase transistor bridge which in turn is driven by the rectified, filtered signals from the reluctance-switch sensing windings. Reversibility and voltage speed control were requirements. This paper covers the design of the reluctance switch and the control circuits for the motor. Ripple torques and magnetic cogging torque are discussed. The unique design features of the motor are covered. The incorporation of position control, speed control, and other unique control functions are emphasized. The motor was developed at the Westinghouse Aerospace Electrical Division on Contract No. NAS5-3934 for the NASA Goddard Space Flight Center."
"The central static inverter used to establish a 1250 VA, 115/200 volt, 3-phase, 400 c/s ac power distribution system for the Apollo Spacecraft Command and Service Module is one of the loads operating in parallel from the dc power distribution system. Some of the other dc loads cause transient and steady-state ripple voltages on the dc system bus of 10 c/s to 1000 c/s frequency that is critical because passive filter networks of reasonable size and weight cannot provide adequate attenuation. A static inverter is susceptible to dc input voltage ripple, and a demodulator network is required when ac output voltage modulation must be less than 1/2 percent. The various static inverter circuits which can provide the demodulation function are discussed. Particular emphasis is given to the non-dissipative approach afforded by the voltage buck-boost regulator5 type of dc link static inverter in which available and reliable components have been incorporated. A circuit model is analyzed in order to substantiate the demodulation approach and the data taken from an actual hardware inverter."
"One of the most important criteria for judging the suitability of aircraft equipment is weight. It is important both to the aircraft designer, who must meet the performance guarantees economically and to the user, who must get maximum utilization of the airframe capabilities. This paper presents a method of weight analysis to more accurately assess the weight of aircraft constant frequency electrical generating equipment. The method presumes common performance requirements for all systems compared, and equal skill on the part of the component designers. Conventional and Variable Speed Constant Frequency generating systems are examined in some detail to determine the installed weights for an aircraft application."
"Ion engines have been found to be demanding loads for high-voltage solid-state power-conditioning systems. This is due, in large part, to the tendency of these engines to undergo frequent and severe electrical arcing. The unusual ruggedness and efficiency requirements for such power systems are in direct conflict with the requirement for an extremely light weight. This paper describes a six-stage nondissipatively-regulated modular conversion system in which the use of an unconventional method for accomplishing dc-to-dc conversion, current-feedback base drive for the power transistors, and a relatively high (10 kc/s) intermediate conversion frequency results in an efficient and lightweight power-conditioning system with excellent protection characteristics. In this modular 2000-volt 1600-watt system, voltage conversion is accomplished by means of multiple-winding energy-storage transformers, each containing a core with an air gap. These transformers are caused to absorb energy from the source on one half cycle and to discharge energy into the output filter and load on the succeeding half cycle. This configuration makes possible a converter in which no semiconductor element is subjected to an immediate or abrupt transient as a result of a short circuit across the high-voltage output; protection schemes need not be elaborate. This \"energy-pumping\" conversion technique, in which the special energy-storage transformers perform multiple functions involving not only voltage conversion but also filtering, nondissipative regulation, and system protection, results in a system which is physically very simple."
"The recent development of a lightweight, highly efficient a.c. link type static inverter (cycloinverter) provides a new power conversion candidate for consideration by the aerospace systems designer. This inverter can be used in power systems provided by fuel cells, conventional aircraft d.c. generators, or batteries. The a.c. link inverter has become fully practical by selection of a system implementation in which each power modification necessary for the generation of high quality a.c. power is accomplished in the most efficient manner which will not contribute significantly to weight. The resulting system combination of chopper, transformer, cycloconverter and filter is superior in KVA per pound and efficiency to conventional inverters for the same system requirements. The new inverter has also been applied to a.c. electric adjustable speed drives using polyphase squirrel cage induction motors for lightweight aerospace system applications."
"The paper presents a discussion of the measured speed control accuracy of a Hydro-Mechanical constant speed drive with precise speed trim. The error between the generator output frequency and the precise reference oscillator frequency is measured during generating system operation representing a greatly accelerated flight schedule. The digital instrumentation used to measure the error was developed specifically for this test and is described. The tests were made possible by the availability of a Programmed Test Area (PTA) which allows the test conditions to be repeated accurately through the application of Digital Programming. The test results indicate that frequency control accuracy is essentially determined by the reference."
"The importance of realistic systems availability (readiness) models for useful systems and cost effectiveness analysis and evaluation is discussed. A method is presented which considers: 1. Different types of imperfect failure detection. 2. Various replacement strategies, with imperfect replacements and limited spares. 3. Different types of scheduled inspections. 4. Non-instantaneous replacement rates and some types of non-instantaneous failure detection. By a careful consideration of the physics of the system and some redefinition, irreducible and ergodic transition matrices are derived from apparently nonirreducible system state transition matrices. This results in the development of a method that not only includes the non-ideal system constraints listed above, but gives additional system analysis capability. In many applications this modeling procedure may well supplant costly simulation studies and increase the knowledge about how the various system parameters interact. Optimization procedures can also be readily applied to the resulting steady-state availability models. This is followed by the addition of a section of comments which indicate some additional applications and some inherent advantages of the methods presented. Finally, a set of conclusions is presented."
"The results of a study of pre-delivery reflight practices and subsequent airplane system reliability are presented and discussed. Since the airplane comprises the most complex single end item of hardware in the airplane pilot training system, the paper deals solely with the airplane. The study encompassed records of 33 airplanes delivered over a four month period. It was found that, for the corrective action policy in effect, the number of failures observed during the delivery flight was independent of the number of flights before delivery as well as of the number of failures experienced on the last flight prior to delivery. In addition, the failure rate of these aircraft in the field during the first 50 flight hours after delivery was found to be independent of the number of pre-delivery flights. As an extension of this study, the statistical distribution of airplane failure rates during the second 50 hours of post-delivery service was determined, and is presented. The overall MTBF for the group of aircraft studied was 7.46 hours during these second 50 hour periods."
"A method of estimating the probabilities of availability and dependability, and of showing the effect of maintainability and reliability on cost effectiveness is developed through the use of Markov Chain techniques. Any system may be subjected to one or many mission profiles in its life cycle. The mission profile consists of a number of events where an event is defined as a state which describes the operational status and environmental stresses imposed on the system. Inputs required for this model include failure rates, operational status modifiers, environmental stress modifiers, mean time to repair, and mission events. Outputs of this model are: 1) the probabilities of successfully surviving each sequential mission event, 2) the system availability at any time during the mission, 3) the system dependability, and 4) the logistics required for the system for any time period during the mission profile. An example of one application of this technique to a missile system includes a typical mission profile for a ship-based surface-to-air missile. The method of formulating the problem and the results of an actual computer solution of the Markov Chain Model are given."
"This paper discusses the application of system and cost effectiveness analysis techniques to the procurement of military operational systems that involve contractor performance of \"Concept Formulation\" and \"Contract Definition\". The author quotes recent statements made by Secretary of Defense McNamara and former Assistant Secretary Hitch which point to the widening use of these techniques in military contracts to improve the decisionmaking processes. The author deals, princiaplly, with the need to establish new standards for the development of reliability input data that will result in more meaningful predictions of system and cost effectiveness. He predicts that the growing involvement of industry will raise the state of the art and bring about the desired improvements. The paper defines the ten characteristics that techniques must have to meet future requirements; it reviews some of the shortcomings connected with the present input data collection methods and suggests the needed approach."
"Designing a modern system is a complex process. The creation of a coherent system performance by the proper selection and combination of separate technologies, is in itself a unique process of scientific discovery and invention. When there is lack of insight into the TOTAL system design process, serious deficiencies in attaining desired system effectiveness is quite likely to result. With a view toward correcting deficiencies in defining integrated system design requirements, organized approaches have been made to superimpose formal system engineering procedures upon the basic hardware design process. Such procedures are supposed to yield increased system effectiveness in initial system designs, especially when the need dates for delivery and the budgeted costs are severely limiting factors. Although the basic purpose of such schemes may be commendable, namely, to provide a common system engineering approach, the practical effect of their introduction in most cases has been to create a dichotomy between hardware designers and system engineering-oriented personnel. This results primarily when the imposition of system engineering reporting procedures occurs \"after-the-fact\" of design decisions. The kind of system design implied in the proposed use of standardized system engineering procedures can be achieved only when they are completely understood and employed by hardwareoriented engineers as their own inherent approach to solving design problems resulting from system application requirements."
"Space experimentation is expanding rapidly. Unmanned satellites are being equipped with precision instruments of greater power, and manned space stations accommodating large crews are in the drawing-board stage. The interface problems between these sophisticated instruments and between man, the spacecraft, and the supporting ground stations are multidimensional. This paper analyzes the scientific/technical areas of space experimentation, and continues with a review of the subsystems and support systems required to supply and operate the large variety of instruments. Areas of major integration efforts are singled out and the requirements for further developments and improvements are listed. A bibliography of 95 references is enclosed to assist in the identification of more detailed reports on all vital aspects of space experimentation."
"Space experimentation requires an increasingly complex planning and systems engineering effort to meet the demand for highest precision and reliability of all easurements and observations. A companion paper discusses the interfaces between the scientific/technical areas of space experimentation and the instruments, subsystems and support systems within the spacecraft. This paper deals with the organization and the procedures which are needed to perform the difficult payload integration process for space experimentation. In the course of this process it is necessary to define the experiments completely, to describe all instruments in terms of engineering specifications, to investigate the commonality of equipment, to group the experiments into mission compatible payloads, to specify acceptable loads on all subsystems and astronauts (when present) and to plan for all contingencies during the flight."
"In recent years major government contractors within the Aerospace industry have been required, through contractually imposed specifications, to establish management techniques within their organizations which would assure the buyer of a totally coordinated and integrated program. One of these specifications is WR-30, \"Integrated Maintenance Management for Aeronautical Weapons, Weapon Systems, Related Equipment.\" This paper discusses the application of specification WR-30 to a recently awarded limited development program for an Attitude Reference System."
"Today's operation demands faster and more accurate methods of detecting in-flight failures of navigational instruments. New, automatic self-monitor techniques developed and installed for attitude and heading reference systems are described in this paper. Logic signals generated by these so-called \"In-Line\" monitor functions trigger a conspicuous warning flag in each related primary display. A new sensing and logic control unit dubbed the \"SMART BOX\" is installed as a central monitor station for all systems furnishing control signals to the Flight Director and Autopilot. It responds to in-line monitor signals to disengage the autopilot, and retract the flight director display from view in the event of a system malfunction."
"BITE, the Built-In Test Equipment concept, is becoming important in electric power systems for jet airplanes. The ground rules for BITE on these systems are recommended. Based on the recommended ground rules three approaches to BITE; Trip Signal Indication, Confidence Check, and Maintenance Annunciation; are discussed. For each approach the function, method of operation, complexity, effect on weight, cost, and mean-time-between-failure of the BITE are given."
"Investigation of the problems associated with the design and installation of high frequency, electric power transmission lines in aircraft has resulted in a descriptive analysis which is presented in this paper. The effects of frequency, ground plane elevation, feeder configuration, wire bundle size, induction, and shielding on transmission line impedance are included. Electromagnetic interference is also considered, on the basis of experimental data, and is described in terms of the dynamic image of charge. Recent experimental data obtained at North American Aviation, Inc. supports the discussion throughout."
"The electric power transmission lines on large jet aircraft must be selected with the power system performance characteristics in mind as well as the conductor current carrying capabilities. Trade-offs between total system weight and system performance may be considered where long transmission lines are required. The main areas of performance that would be affected are system voltage transients, system ceiling voltage, system voltages during unbalanced load conditions and system protection."
"This paper develops an approach to the selection of an electric power system and the prime internal power source for a short range missile. Every conference has many papers on the subject of power sources for missiles. They cover such items as batteries, ram air turbines, hot gas driven turbines, and such possible power sources as thermionic, thermoelectric, solar cells. Each of the different sources has a particular field of appropriate application and many of the fields overlap. Papers on the choice of application of these items to power systems are very few. It is primarily the function of the engineer to apply the knowledge and the devices available in order to create an efficient overall operating system."
"A description of the Gemini Titan II Launch Vehicle's redundant electrical system and differences between the electrical systems of the Titan II and Gemini Titan II Launch Vehicles are presented. Also described are the interfaces with the guidance/flight control, malfunction detection, range safety, hydraulic and instrumentation systems, and the interface of the launch vehicle and Gemini spacecraft. Principal electrical component characteristics are presented, and data obtained during flight is compared with that obtained during ground checkout."
"A generalized approach to the electromagnetic compatibility problem in electrical aerospace ground equipment (EAGE) systems is presented first by a control plan approach. This is augmented by the formulation of a grounding plan as the basis of good EAGE design. Criteria for packaging, shielding, and other control techniques is offered with emphasis on those elements which have the greatest effect on the final design."
"Safety and reliability in aerospace vehicles and associated ground equipment are directly affected by basic design concepts in power system grounding and bonding practice. The three major objectives covered in this paper are; avoidance of static charges, protection from lightning, and safe containment of power system faults. Effective measures are outlined which hold static charges to insignificant levels incapable of sparking. Basic precautions which improve safety from lightning are specified. A number of alternate schemes for safe handling of power system faults are discussed. In addition, some simple and effective methods of obtaining effective electric bonding of equipment and structure are described and illustrated."
"This paper discusses a new electromagnetic interference (EMI) shielding for conductors. The shielding was especially developed to contain or exclude interference energy initiated by both magnetic and electrical fields over a broad frequency range. Incorporating a unique shielding concept, the new shielding minimizes (1) interference propagation from power or signal wiring, (2) low to high frequency (60 c/s to 10 Ge/s) interference pickup from external sources, and (3) requirements for segregation and special routing of power and signal wiring and interconnecting cables. Composed of two or more layers of braided magnetic materials, the shielding has demonstrated significant improvements in shielding effectiveness compared with conventional shielding over standard conductors and coaxial cables. In-service use has attested to its effectiveness."
"A computer program has been developed for determining the interference occurring at various points in a complex network resulting from common impedance coupling of signals introduced at other points in the network. For a network of almost any complexity, the program can calculate the transfer function between any two points and thus determine the magnitude of the resulting signal. A simple network of ten parameters was first analyzed and the results were compared with laboratory measurements on a simulated network. Refinements were made to obtain good agreement. Skin effect was included to get agreement at frequencies as high as 10 Mc. A system of one hundred parameters was then analyzed. Curves of the computed and measured transfer functions are presented to show the agreement obtained. The results of this analysis are as accurate as the determination of the network parameters and the terminating impedances."
"Cost-effectiveness is that vector of characteristics of a product that relates cost and effectiveness parameters within a decision-making framework for determining the optimum utilization of resources to meet objectives."
"A cost-effectiveness evaluation study is initiated normally by a set of formal customer requirements in the form of an RFP or RFQ and associated data package. These formal requirements are augmented generally by informal requirements throughout the study. Analysis of the basic operational requirements in terms of the required missions enables definition of generic functional requirements on the avionics system. These functional requirements establish the base for an industry survey of potential machine capabilities in each of the functional areas. Performance indices may then be established. Performance indices may be used in conjunction with basic operational requirements to formulate an appropriate cost-effectiveness model. The industry surveys may provide costversus-performance relationships and projected state-of-the-art performance constraints which, together with the cost effectiveness model, enable determination of those avionics system parameters to which cost effectiveness is most sensitive. These sensitivities, used in conjunction with the basic operational and functional requirements, then permit definition of suitable candidate avionics systems. The overall cost-effectiveness model may be used to determine the relative cost effectiveness of the candidates. Parallel efforts in systems performance analysis may eliminate from further consideration or indicate the need for redefinition of one or more candidates. When all candidates meet the basic performance requirements of the customer, and are judged to be within the estimated customer funding limitations, the most cost effective system is then selected."
"Up to now, the design of space communications systems has been dominated by the low received power which characterizes these systems. Two changing conditions will alter this emphasis. The first is the increase in available transmitter power caused by increased booster capability. The second is the reduction in available bandwidth due to a great increase in traffic requirements. Present systems use modulation systems which require minimum power at the expense of lavish use of bandwidth. Future systems must find a better compromise of characteristics. Multilevel pulse code modulation (PCM) is a modulation system offering such a compromise. Multilevel PCM is an extension of binary PCM to multilevel signals. In multilevel PCM the signal is sampled, quantized, and the value of the quantized sample is represented by a stream of symbols which may have any number of levels. Multilevel PCM was described and the approximate performance was computed in 1948 by Oliver, Pierce, and Shannon. Since then it has largely been ignored. This is the first exact computation of performance. The performance of multilevel PCM is compared with other systems on an equal bandwidth basis. It is found that multilevel PCM requires less input power than any commonly used modulation system of equal bandwidth. For example, to obtain 60-db signalto-noise ratio out and using only twice the information bandwidth, multilevel PCM requires 20 db less input power than any commonly used modulation system."
"In general, the trend toward telemetry systems of increased flexibility and versatility for aerospace vehicles has yielded unacceptable power and processing efficiencies and questionable reliabilities. This paper describes the concepts, organization, and areas of application of a core-memory-programmed telemetry system which has been specifically developed, in its entirety, to provide the versatility required for aerospace vehicular applications and environments. It is felt that this versatility has been achieved, since the telemeter can reasonably be applied to dataprocessing requirements in such diverse areas as deep-space probes, orbiting spacecraft, or avionic data systems. Although format generation is its primary mode of operation, modular expansion of the basic system permits the expanded telemeter to perform as an integral datacompression system. The paper also describes the development of a laboratory model of this versatile telemetry system, which has been constructed to physically implement the various system functions described herein."
"This paper discusses a technique for the real time retransmission of data from multiple asynchronous PCM telemetry links in a manner which will allow the times of individual samples to be accurately determined. The technique is called Periodic Burst and is characterized by the continuous tranmission of discrete blocks at rates which maintain the periodicity of parameters. A block is assembled from a single input link and will contain either a \"time of sync\" word or selected parameters. Blocks which contain parameters are assembled of samples which occur at a single rate during some prescribed time interval. The burst format is designed so that blocks from different links and at different rates are merged and burst transmitted at the rate at which these blocks were assembled. The sequence that a particular sample occurs relative to sync is known from the input links commutation format. If the commutation rate is also known or can be determined, the time of each sample can be established. The nominal commutation rate of a particular telemetry link will be known, but the actual commutation rate may differ by some tolerance, usually between 0.05% and 0.1%. To accurately determine sampling time, it is therefore necessary to determine the actual commutation rate. In the periodic burst technique, this is accomplished by assembling a \"time of sync\" block for each occurrence of sync and transmitting these blocks in the burst message."
"The PCM Telemeter System described in this paper was designed and developed specifically for the Lunar Orbiter Spacecraft (LOS). Its functional capabilities are those of a good general-purpose PCM Telemeter. Reliability of the PCM System was the most important design consideration. The system reliability of Ps 0.986 for a 30-day mission was endeavored to be met through the use of Hi-Rel piece - parts qualified to existing Minuteman/Gemini/Apollo/LEM high reliability specifications. The Reliability Program was based on NPC 250-1. In operation, the PCM Telemeter accepts three types of input signals, (1) high level analog, (2) parallel digital (bilevel), and (3) serial digital data. The analog signals are multiplexed and encoded with an accuracy of 0.2% including over-all linearity of 0.1%. Digital data is interlaced into the output word format by the system as it is received. System timing is normally synchronized with an external clock. However, if the external clock fails, timing is automatically switched to an internal clock source and thus the PCM System will continue to function. The basic output bit rate for the PCM System is 50 bits per second. The PCM Telemeter supplies \"read-in\" pulses to other external equipment as timing commands for reading serial digital data into the PCM. The PCM also provides a 50 PPS shift pulse to an external 26-bit serial digital channel register. The PCM Telemeter can be divided, for purposes of exolanation, into six subunits: •Analog Multiplexer •Analog-to-Digital Converter •Digital Multiplexer •Programmer •Output Shift Register & Formatter •Power Supply."
"An extensive investigation of Delta Modulation techniques for encoding pictorial data was made to determine the parameters of Delta Modulation systems for image communication applications by computer simulation. The analysis and computer simulation included one and two-bit systems with linear integration and exponential integration. Systems including linear prediction were also simulated. The performance of some of these systems as well as that of PCM, in the presence of datalink noise have been simulated and evaluated. Images of all of these simulations are presented for evaluation."
"A television system to measure broadband spectral intensities of stars and their coordinates has been developed for an experiment in the Orbiting Astronomical Observatory. The satellite provides three different methods of telemetry data transmission, but none of them is really suited for video transmission: real-time digital transmission is too slow; on-board data storage has too small a capacity; and real-time analog transmission is not sufficiently accurate. By development of special digital scan techniques for television, real-time data processing on board became feasible, and real-time digital video transmission was chosen as the prime mode. Also, additional small modifications of the television system made it possible to utilize the other two remaining available methods for video transmission as backup modes of operation. The particular technique is applicable to many space experiments, and many existing satellites can be converted to a television carrier without major modification."
"In conventional video transmission systems, data is scanned at a constant rate with a fixed optical resolution and transmitted with a given magnitude accuracy. In adaptive video transmission systems, more efficient utilization of bandwidth and/or power is accomplished by varying the optical resolution and amplitude accuracy as a function of picture detail. In picture areas where there is high detail, video information is scanned with high optical resolution and its magnitude is transmitted with low accuracy. This is possible because the eye is relatively insensitive to magnitude errors in high detail regions. Correspondingly, areas of low detail are scanned with low optical resolution but transmitted with high amplitude accuracy. This paper describes several methods for implementing these concepts. It is shown how redundancy reductionalgorithms, employing \"a posteriori\" curve fitting techniques, are used to adaptively change the effective resolution as a function of picture detail. Adaptive aperture is also demonstrated as a technique for changing video data accuracy in accordance with picture detail. Several examples of compressed and reconstructed video are shown. These include TIROS video, RANGER photos, and high resolution aerial reconnaissance photographs. The reduction in bandwidth obtained is demonstrated to be as high as 6 to 1. A complete system for compressing video data, encoding the compressed data, transmitting it, and reconstructing the data into the original form is also described."
"This paper contains a description of a Dielectric-Tape Camera System. The parameters of the system are described for a camera orbiting at 600 miles which is capable of complete earth coverage every 24 hours. The system and design effort discussed was divided into four major areas: the tape, electron optics and eletron guns; the circuits including video, power supplies, motor drive circuitry, and command, control and logic circuitry; the mechanical design including the tape transport, mirror mechanism, optics and camera enclosure; and three items of special test equipment. The special test equipment which was designed to provide operational evaluation of the system includes a command and timing simulator, an optical simulator, and a display device. The paper also includes a brief description of the system tests performed and a discussion of the test results."
"The Airborne Instrumentation Branch of the U.S. Naval Ordnance Test Station (NOTS), China Lake, has developed a real-time data gathering and flight test technique for weapon-system development testing. This technique uses a telemetry ground station with UHF communications equipment, a real-time digital computer, and data displays. Telemetered data from an aircraftcarried weapon system and an air-data unit are processec ana displayed during the test. Both analog and digital information are presented to a weapon-system engineer on direct-print oscillograph paper. The engineer who acts as the test director is able to change the test conditions during a test to achieve the desired results. This dynamic method of testing shortens the development period of a weapon system by reducing the time required to gather and evaluate performance data."
"The significant study results indicate that the Data Transmission System for a Jupiter Precursor Spacecraft requires no advancements in the subsystem technology. However, on missions of such long duration, reliability is a key factor, and the associated requirements are increased an order of magnitude over conventional spacecraft. A minimum scientific instrument package to measure particles and fields has been defined with a minimum data rate of 0.12 bits/sec and storage capability of up to 160,000 bits. Data rates for various transmitter power/antenna size alternatives were established and the preferred design specified. This design includes a ten-watt transmitter with a fan beam antenna to provide a data rate an order of magnitude greater than that required by the minimum instrument package."
"The measurement of several system parameters from a few testpoints for checkout purposes finds a close parallel in plant identification for adaptive control. Where in the latter ase statistical reduction techniques are common, in the former case a severe testing-time limitation must be faced. Against this background, measurement of a maximum of system parameters with a minimum of observations from a stimulus and a response connection was investigated. Investigations were limited to methods that will produce a consistent set of linear equations in the system parameters under observation. The stimulus has to contain to number of different components equal to the number of parameters under test, which components can be chosen from an orthogonal or independent set. The responses to these stimulus components, however, are in general not independent. The result is a fundamental lack of resolution depending on the complexity of the system under test and placement of a practical upper limit on the number of parameters that can be observed. Quantitative measures of error propagation from observation to solution have been developed Turingnumber, propagation of variance) to investigate this lack of resolution and to minimize it by proper test method design. Resolution can be further improved by repeated measurements. For checkout, however, time-consuming bruteforce approaches are to be avoided. From a large set of test methods investigated, it appeared that the best results are obtained by using sine-wave stimuli. Also a unique test method will be presented, instrumentable with a few simple low-pass filters."
"Information is ultimately conveyed by the use of some form of decision or threshold device in binary communication systems. Threshold receivers are all basically \"signal present\" receivers, and are used in both telemetry and command systems for deep space probes and orbital spacecraft. One attack on the problem of experimentally determining bit error rates in such systems is the standard concept of bit error testing, i.e., comparing transmitted and received digital information bit by bit. When either error rates or bit rates are low, considerable test time is required to establish error rates by this method. This paper presents an application of the statistics of extreme values to the problem of estimation of low error probabilities in binary communication systems, with special reference to systems which have \"loss-of-lock\" indicators. The idea of the extreme-value theory method is to record the maxima within a large group of successive independent samples of the detector analog signal just prior to quantization, and then in turn record a large number of these maxima themselves. Next, the two parameters of the double exponential extreme-value probability distribution are estimated. The probability of exceeding the error threshold is then calculated from knowledge of these two parameters. The presence of a loss-of-lock indicator reduces the error probability at the expense of introducing an \"erasure\" probability. Techniques are given for estimating both these probabilities using \"bivariate\" extreme-value theory."
"Manual methods are not practical for accurately determining the sideband properties of a frequency-modulated system involving complex modulation functions. A technique, utilizing an IBM 7094 Data Processing System, accomplishes the solution with accuracy to four decimal places for an unmodulated carrier amplitude of one. This technique was programmed in FORTRAN IV language."
"Present methods of automatically testing spacecraft PCM telemetry systems utilize a one or two channel decoding scheme in which channel inputs are programmed from a precision voltage source and the PCM output from each channel under test is observed or compared one data channel at a time to a reference word value. This method has the disadvantages of being time consuming, placing extreme requirements upon the precision voltage source in voltage accuracy and ambient noise, and failing to simulate realistic data configurations in the output serial PCM wavetrain. A high speed technique which overcomes these advantages establishes a reference PCM data train from a reference PCM system which is electrically identical to the PCM system under test and is synchronized bit by bit so that a real time comparison to the reference PCM data train may be made. Word identification is maintained to identify channel location of errors in the system under test. By this method eleven point channel accuracy testing of a Gemini type format of 240 channels can be reduced from the present 90 minutes to 27 seconds. Since both PCM data trains are synchronized sampling times of the A/D converters are precisely at the same point in time and since corresponding channels are driven from the same source an inaccuracy due to voltage programming or test set ambient noise on the data input line is nullified."
"A method of measuring interplanetary plasmastream velocities using bistatic-radar transmissions from earth to a spacecraft is proposed. Nonrelativistic plasma velocities are considered, and the presence of a uniform interplanetary magnetic field is included. The effect of the streaming motion of the plasma medium is shown to introduce a second-order Faraday polarization change on a linearly polarized transmitted wave. Furthermore, this small second-order effect can in principle be conveniently measured using twoway propagation between the two transmission termini. This method represents an improvement over existing means of velocity measurement using plasma probes since the radar measurements establish the average stream velocity over the straight-line propagation path as opposed to the point samples of the plasma probe."
"Development is being completed on transducers capable of aerospace flight detection of small gas flowrates. Primarily intended for monitoring of possible leaks from critical joints in the Saturn engine systems, the transducers could find application in other situations involving similar flowrates. Details of methods used on the J-2 and F-1 engines for leak monitoring are given. Principles of operation are given. Leakage rates up to about 25 cubic centimeters per second (standard temperature and pressure) can be measured. The basic types include units for gaseous oxygen, gaseous hydrogen, hot exhaust gases, and RP-1 fuel."
"Electronic hydrogen leak and fire detector systems are installed on the Saturn S-IVB static test firing stands to detect hydrogen leaks and hydrogen fires. Only this portion of the hydrogen safety program is covered in this paper. The characteristics of hydrogen and hydrogen flames are reviewed. The results of the investigations into various types of leak and fire detectors is recorded. Installation and operational problems and the solutions to these problems are discussed."
"A miniature shaft angle encoder with intergrated circuit encoding matrix and built in memory potential has been conceived at the IBM Electronics Systems Center. This device opens up new opportunities for small simplified approaches for guidance, control and telemetry systems. This encoder uses only a single static commutation ring, and approaches the ultimate limit of mechanical simplicity and small size."
"Many present day radar systems are severely restricted in their applications by two gross limitations. There are no provisions whereby the entire returning radar pulse or echo can be recontructed. Measurement of just the peak amplitude of the returning radar energy is entirely unsatisfactory when radars are applied to measurements of the re-entry phenomenon, missile systems experiments which employ many objects, and other experiments. Similarly, in radars which separate objects by their differences in velocity, the measurement of the peak of returning pulse is entirely inadequate. The second major limitation is that as missile systems become more sophisticated it is necessary for radars to have the ability to track more than one object. Video recording and playback system, when applied to a radar system, will provide means of solving these limitations. Using digital sampling techniques, the entire ungated recorded return is sampled and thus the entire range interval or radar echo can be reconstructed. This data will provide useful output so that a complete pulse analysis can be provided; likewise, radar signature and off-axis information can be secured for all targets. The operation and principle of this video recording and playback system will be discussed. The other analysis advantages which are secured with a radar video recording scheme will also be cited. A video record and playback system provides an inexpensive means of updating any radar system."
"This paper is concerned with the navigation of a manned space vehicle during its powered deboost phase of flight prior to landing on the moon. An inertial measurement unit (IMU), which operates continuously, is provided on board the vehicle along with an altimeter and a doppler radar. The basic problem of interest is to determine the best way to navigate the vehicle with these instruments, considering factors such as equipment operating ranges, data rates, random and bias measurement errors, terrain anomalies, and computational complexity. The navigation systems presented are based on the least-squares estimation techniques developed by Kalman and Battin. Up-to-date estimates of the vehicle's state are obtained by comparing altimeter or doppler-radar measurements with IMU-derived estimates of the same physical quantity. The key to the estimation process is the determination of the best weighting to use on these measurement differences in the updating procedure. Several different sets of weighting factors for use in the deboost phase are developed in the paper, using minimization of mean-squared estimation errors as the basic performance criterion. Bias errors in the IMU measurements, uncertainties in the knowledge of the orientation of the radar antennas relative to the IMU, and anomalies of the lunar terrain are assumed to be the predominant navigation-system error sources. The major differences between the weighting factors result from the particular model employed for the navigation sensors, the model used for the lunar terrain, and the methods used to account for measurement bias errors in the weighting-factor computations."
"The radar return from a group of distributed scatterers exhibits a fluctuating nature whose intensity and rate of change appear to be a function of the frequency of the radiation and the motion of the scatterers. Because of their appearance on radar displays, the fluctuating echo signals are referred to as clutter. A digital computer synthesis of a simulated ground clutter signal is presented in which the clutter is characterized by its power spectral density and probability density functions. The output of a random number generator producing uniformly distributed white noise is shaped to yield a sequence of numbers having a Gaussian probability density function. The Gaussian, white noise is then filtered to yield the desired power spectral density. Equations are derived which relate the noise statistics to the shaping and filtering operators. Experimental results are presented to illustrate the clutter characteristics that have been obtained utilizing an available noise generator."
"The accuracy with which an airborne receiver of a low frequency radio navigation system can be located in real time can be improved considerably by combining the position information from the receiver with velocity information from a velocity sensor such as a Doppler radar. Since aircraft maneuvers and hence the dynamics of the aircraft position and velocity are not known apriori, it is advantageous to combine position and velocity in a filter having a distortionless constraint, that is, a filter whose output has no position error resulting from the dynamics of the inputs. The theory of optimization of such distortionless filters, which are by definition analog filters, has been described in the literature. However, the long range and inherently high accuracy of a low frequency radio navigation system dictate a digital filter combination. In this paper, optimum digital filters combining position and velocity information under an approximate distortionless constraint are synthesized. Four types of digital filters are analyzed and compared: filters having a single sample rate and containing zero order or first order integrators, and filters having a dual sampling rate and containing zero order or first order integrators. These filters are optimized for minimum variance in their position outputs in response to band-limited Gaussian noise in their position and velocity inputs. Position error resulting from random noise and aircraft maneuvers are derived as a function of sample rate. Curves of position error versus sampling rate for a typical low frequency radio navigation system are presented."
"The operational and functional requirements of a lunar orbiting surface survey system necessitate the incorporation of a target acquisition and track subsystem. This subsystem would have to supply appropriate directional control signals for other sensors as well as provide a means for high resolution visual survey of targets of interest. The Lunar Survey Viewfinder (LSV), an opto-mechanical pointing and tracking telescope, employing man as an active element in the track loop, meets these objectives. According to the permitted degree of dependency of the LSV upon the spacecraft's Guidance and Navigation (G & N) system, various instrument control schemes have been advanced. The optical and mechanical configuration of the instrument is a combined function of its specified parameters and the constraints due to its location within a given spacecraft unit. The system described within this paper (based upon an Apollo Command Module mounting of the LSV proper) provides a capability for high resolution survey of the lunar surface, the generation of pointing commands for various gimbaled sensors as well as image motion compensation signals for body mounted cameras, a means of coordinate location of selected lunar surface targets referenced to the G & N system, and the generation of impact probe alignment and launch parameters. The implications of the overall system are considered."
"The guidance law, schedule, propulsive requirements, and expected guidance accuracy for typical manned flybys to Mars or Venus are described. Navigation is based upon sightings taken by the crew with a sextant which has an accuracy of 10 seconds of arc. Injection errors at the beginning of the interplanetary leg are based upon those expected with today's inertial guidance. Midcourse corrections are selected from a study in which the benefit (in terms of decreased position error at the target planet) was traded against an increasing ΔV requirement. A total of only 300 feet per second velocity correction (3σ) is required for the entire flyby mission."
"Time synchronization between system elements is an integral requirement in many aerospace systems. To date, microsecond synchronization has been acccomplished by LORAN-C(1), by satellite communications(2), and by transporting portable clocks(3). However, the first two techniques utilize complex systems and are primarily designed for other uses; and the third technique has obvious practical limitations. The need for a relatively simple and economical system for obtaining microsecond synchronization has increased with the availability of atomic standards for maintaining these accuracies in operating systems. A meteor burst time synchronization system may be capable of fulfilling that need."
"Reliable communications are essential to success of the Lunar Excursion Module (LEM) mission in the Apollo program. This paper describes the communications system to provide the communications necessary for both in-flight and lunar-stay modes of operation. Features of the S-band transmission link between earth and the LEM vehicle, and the VHF transmission link between the Command Module and the LEM vehicle are discussed. The signal processor, S-band and VHF transceivers, S-band power amplifier, and steerable and erectable antenna assemblies comprising the communications system are described."
"The objective of this paper is to discuss a new space control system utilizing \"SUBORDINATE OR\" logic blocks. This technique retains the highly efficient stabilization characteristics of the \"TRIGGER LOGIC\" system and adds the capability of optimum response to maneuver commands. Modification and incorporation of the command signal into the control logic is shown so that optimum response results. Optimum herein means getting into the new commanded limit cycle box in minimum time with the least fuel possible expended. The use of elementary digital logic blocks is emphasized for designing a simple nonlinear control system. Such usage precludes the problem of summing small and large analog signals, and also provides more flexibility in control logic design."
"A mathematical model for various configurations of interceptor missiles operating outside the earth's atmosphere is described. The associated digital computer simulation program provides means for evaluating the performance of different guidance and control systems and for studying the influence of parameter variations on the overall mission effectiveness. The simulation program also provides a means for establishing dynamic and kinematic criteria for the variable mass interceptor configurations. A complete attack mission, from exo-atmospheric launch to kill, may be carried out in three-dimensional space with all six degrees-of-freedom of the interceptor accounted for in the dynamics. Several models of thrusting and passive tracking may be selected for guidance. The guidance law is based on biased proportional navigation. The program simulates the sensing of the target, control system functions, and interceptor dynamics, all in closed loop form. The control loops contain optional time lags, gains, limits, and shaping neetworks in addition to a White Gaussian noise generator capable of simulating both receiver noise and angular scintillation. The vehicle's physical characteristics, the control constants, and the intercept mission are entirely arbitrary. The target is a pre-programmed point mass whose trajectory may be described by tabular data, equations for constant acceleration, circular equations, or other options. Output generated consists of time histories of all significant functions and a series of plots generated on a 1403 printer. A simple mission used to demonstrate the capabilities of the program will be discussed."
"The feedback realization of the continuous time multivariate optimal filter is reviewed and amplified as it pertains to the continuous augmentation of inertial systems. Comparatively simple examples are given of its application to the velocity and position damping of the Schuler loop. The solution of the more extensive problem of velocity or position damping a complete inertial system is outlined. The difficulties encountered when the noise contaminating the augmentation is not simple are illustrated through the application to the rapid on ground alignment problem."
"A need exists for a tactical landing aid which will perform many of the functions of conventional ILS systems, but is portable, simple to install and is inexpensive. To meet this need, a system designated as TALAR® for tactical landing aid-radio has been developed. In this system a conically scanning cassegrain antenna operating at 15.5 GHz in conjunction with a magnatron transmitter radiates energy from the ground which is received by a lightweight 4 pound receiver in the aircraft. The transmitter energy is modulated by means of a 100 kHz sub-carrier and undergoes additional modulation because of spatial position within the scanned beam. At beam center this spatial modulation is zero. A reference is provided by means of FM placed on the 100 kHz sub-carrier so that by phase-detection the aircraft position in both glide-slope and localizer can be displayed on a conventional cross-pointer instrument. The transmitter weighs approximately 35 pounds and consumes about 220 watts input power. It can be set up in 10-15 minutes by semi-skilled personnel. Range exceeds 10 nautical miles (18.3 Km) while the overall localizer beamwidth is approximately ± 15 degrees and glide-slope coverage is ± 3 degrees."
"The extension of terrestrial photography to space-to-space operation is a logical expectation. However, this extension is complicated by the relative motion between space vehicles and the need for accurate tracking during photography to reduce resolution losses. This paper is a first attempt to define a manual tracking system for coupled-camera photography of one space vehicle from another when a wieldable viewfinder is used. The proposed system incorporates simultaneous manual control of the two viewfinder gimbals and automatic control of the three vehicle attitudes. The major tool of this study was a physical simulation of the visual scene in conjunction with an analog computer simulation of the equations of relative motion. Data are presented on such typical performance factors as relative velocity, look angles and rates, and line-of-sight accelerations. These data were obtained by substituting automatic control loops with appropriate compensation for the pilot. For certain performance factors, a strong dependence on the specific trajectory flown was noted. An interesting fundamental of the manual control problem was our use of a two-axis control handle when there are five variables to control: the two viewfinder gimbal angles and the three vehicle attitude angles. Two variables can be controlled directly from the two-axis handle, but additional principles must be hypothesized for control of the other three variables. Four such control systems for maneuvering the vehicle to reduce the relative line-of-sight travel are presented and evaluated. We also show how integral compensation could be used to reduce tracking errors."
"One of the inherent advantages of area correlation guidance over object tracking guidance is greater guidance system flexibility. Another advantage is significantly improved system accuracy, especially if tracking is to be terminated well ahead of vehicle impact. The accuracy inherent in the area correlation process is the subject of this paper. It is unique because accuracy analysis is based upon the power spectral density function of the terrain/reference combination, rather than upon terrain autocorrelation function as are most other publications concerning this subject. For the purpose of this accuracy analysis, only error sources inherent to the correlation process are considered. The constituent error contributions are analyzed and combined and a correlation process error expression is derived. This is followed by a simplified parametric-numerical illustrative example."
"Proportional navigation is an interception guidance technique in which interceptor maneuvers are commanded which are proportional to the measured rate of rotation of the line of sight between an interceptor and its target. The maneuvers are directed to provide control of the rotational rate of the line of sight so that the interceptor converges on the target. This paper, which is tutorial in nature, presents and discusses the basic kinematics of proportional navigation and several of its variations under ideal conditions (i.e. no noise, no time lags, and no target acceleration). The discussions are directed, by example, to the case of exoatmospheric interception of a satellite; however, the guidance theory presented is applicable to the general intercept problem involving a constant speed interceptor and a nonmaneuvering airborne target. The analysis presented is restricted to a two-dimensional end game which is initiated when the interceptor seeker acquires a target satellite. It is assumed that prior to target acquisition the interceptor has been launched from the ground and guided toward a predicted intercept point on the basis of ephemeris data obtained from satellite tracking stations. Subsequent to target acquisition, the end game consists of nulling the projected miss distance produced by ephemeris uncertainties and midcourse guidance errors. Emphasis is given to the time-varying behavior of the basic parameters, including line-of-sight rotational rate, miss distance, acceleration, and velocity increase."
"In government specifications, there is an increasing trend toward requiring quantitative maintainability data; consequently, realistic and usable techniques for effectively evaluating maintainability in terms of maintenance man-hours per flight hour (MMH/FH) or some other parameter are needed. In developing these evaluation techniques, consideration should be given to as many support constraints as possible."
"The reports of destructive grounding system fault currents and abortive interference are costly pages in the annals of electro-technology. The complexity of their resolution is compounded because the design intelligence is not readily apparent in the tangle of architectural, structural, and electrical schematic diagrams with which the grounding system is described. Through the development of a unified set of functional diagrams which present a precise graphic image of the total grounding system entity a means has been provided to efficiently establish the exact equipment configuration employed and to display the grounding as an integral aspect of the power and signal functions. The drawings depict in detail the electrical continuity between earth grounds, conductive structures, and electrical returns. The drawing format features an arrangement of data on the drawings to illustrate the logical sequence in the establishment and distribution of the ground reference potential. The objective of the method of presentation is to illustrate grounding as a sequence of subsystems, defined in distinct levels of indenture. Each level of indenture consists of a similar group of drawings in which each major subdivision is individually brought into focus and enlarged to reveal greater detail. The improved capability for analysis and monitoring of the entire grounding system increases the assurance of determining the optimum low impedance design, implementation consistent with design objectives, and resolution of faults related to the grounding."
"Problems of operating unattended equipment on rural power systems are considered. Criteria for switching to alternate power sources are developed and appropriate specifications are proposed for the power sensing devices. Emphasis is placed on special fault patterns frequently not detected by simple sensing techniques. Improperly designed or inadequate sensing equipment or circuits will permit faulty commercial power to remain connected to the load equipments, with resultant catastrophic damage. Sophisticated power sensing equipment is required to initiate a transfer from normal to standby and emergency power systems. Power sensing should detect low voltage, unbalanced voltages, reversed phase rotation or loss of neutral. The power transfer system must be designed to prevent contactor chatter or cycling from voltage differentials between drop out and pull-in levels."
"The increasing complexity of the launch support equipment and the narrow launch windows of the Saturn IB and Saturn V missions require that methods be developed to minimize any delay attributable to launch support equipment failures. Since even short delays cannot be tolerated for Saturn manned missions, it is necessary to develop a method to prevent the occurrence of these delays. The Alternate Mode of Operation (AMO) concept, an analytical methodology, can be used to achieve this goal. The AMO Program is an engineering analysis of launch support equipment consisting of three phases. a. The design analysis phase which consists of performing the analysis as soon as the preliminary design is completed and constructing failure isolation logic diagrams. b. The operations analysis phase which consists of validating the failure isolation procedures, making launch decisions prior to the countdown which may result in built-in holds, and establishing repair plans prior to the countdown for personnel familiarization. c. The implementation phase which consists of instantly displaying the failure isolation logic and launch decisions for use by personnel in case of equipment failure during the countdown. The Alternate Mode of Operation Program provides: a. Launch support equipment capable of meeting launch windows. b. Optimized failure isolation procedures. c. Predetermined launch decisions in case of launch support equipment failure during the countdown."
"This paper presents a description of a space-packaged, automatic checkout system suitable for placement on current and future generation space vehicles. Included are a description of the test equipment, its control and measurement capabilities, and the computer program developed to operate in conjunction with the equipment."
"Need and justification for automatic, in-flight, thorough built-in test capabilities in advanced avionics systems is discussed and the need for a systems design approach is stressed. The role of an airborne digital computer for sequencing, conducting and evaluating the built-in test and the great flexibility of this computer, its characteristics, program and interface are developed and applicable test methods and design techniques are illustrated by typical examples. Short comings of methods used to continuously monitor all functions in flight and alternate builtin test methods are covered; evaluation logic and time-sharing of tests are discussed."
"Advances in digital techniques and microcircuitry packaging make it possible to economically upgrade the manual test set into efficient semiautomatic or fully automatic test equipment. The ability to provide functions as discrete building blocks further allows the application of digital techniques to checkout of analog systans at the flight line or launch pad. This concept can provide the customer with a reduction of development cost, time, spare parts, and training and, at the same time, permit the potential of updating the equipment as new and improved modules become available. It is quite conceivable that the customer may, in time, modify the function of a test set by field modification kits. A useful method of implementing these requirements has been achieved in the semiautomatic AN/ASM-237 Bomb Computer Test Set by supplying an operator with preprogrammed switch-selected test points which call up the proper stimulus inputs and display digital quantitative test values and messages, while providing the proper interconnections to the system under test. The AN/ASM-237 has been specifically programed to test the Bomb Computer Set CP-805/ASQ- 91 used in the F-4D Phantom aircraft. This airborne computer is an all-analog device having inputs from cockpit controls, radar, and inertial navigation systems. A thin film program is used and is programmed to permit 90 self-tests or malfunction tests to be interrogated and test values displayed for each of the 45 normal tests, giving a total capacity of 4050 tests."
"The Apollo Spacecraft Test Data Evaluation System was conceived for the Apollo Spacecraft Program Office (ASPO) to permit quick evaluations of all the Apollo spacecraft test and checkout data and data reports and provide up-dated spacecraft \"base-line\" data. This system includes acquiring the documentary evidence of each spacecraft test and checkout function on a timely basis, evaluating the results of each major spacecraft test and significant checkout function, and providing data substantiated recommendations to the ASPO management regarding the readiness of each spacecraft to perform satisfactorily during each major ground test, flight test, or mission."
"Simulation, or modeling, has become an indispensable tool in aerospace vehicle development, providing essential experimental information in support of analytical work on an economical and timely basis. Simulation techniques, properly implemented and applied, are equally useful for telemetry and instrumentation design and development. This paper describes a Data System Simulator facility designed and constructed to provide factual evidence of data system design approach validity prior to proposal preparation or commitment to hardware construction. Representative uses of the simulator and advantages of data system simulation are discussed."
"This paper describes the Integrated Manned Systems Simulator (IMSS), which is a Convair division laboratory tool for optimizing displays, controls, and vehicle dynamics in manned aerospacecraft. The focus of the simulator is a psychologically acceptable replica of a spacecraft's flight deck, complete with instruments, controls, and out-of-the-window view. The simulator can also be used to check out control and display hardware as it becomes available during the development of a manned-flight project, to check out the operation of the various vehicle subsystems which have interfaces with the crew, and to study man's role in aerospace flight. The IMSS, capable of simulating most space-vehicle operations, is company-owned and is housed in a 5,000-square-foot building of its own. Principal elements are a modular flight deck, a unique visual environment generation system (using fine-line monochrome TV), a data station for recording and displaying test results in real time, and computing facilities (analog, hybrid, and digital), which are available as needed by means of a set of land lines. The flight deck may be enclosed in nearby or remote, speciallybuilt enclosures or in the simulator's quiet room. Intended to be a design and research tool, IMSS is not a trainer, though it could be so used. Consequently, flight deck configurations for different studies are expected to draw heavily on the simulator's kit of modular parts. The flight deck is of the fixed-base type."
"A hardware oriented digital computer systems simulation is described and digital simulation techniques are reviewed as they have been applied to a lunar midcourse guidance and navigation computer systems research project. Digital simulation techniques are considered in terms of Fortran and symbolic programming, the role of the systems programming engineer, the use of actual equipment, hardware interfacing, the establishment of theoretical base lines, simulation repeatability, computational range and accuracy, operational flexibility and data reduction. Attention is given to the celestial scene simulation construction, calibration and system errors. Conclusions summarize advantages and disadvantages of digital simulation techniques."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"Systems Effectiveness Engineering philosophy is discussed as just a new name for the way things should have been done from the beginning. This includes the taking into account of all the factors that are required for the overall total design of any item being designed-not just the mechanical parameters of weight, height, and performance. Models of the U. S. Navy's model structure, the Canadian Department of National Defence's, and the Weapons Systems Effectiveness Industry Advisory Committee are used to illustrate the equation E = ADC, where E is the quantative measure of the achievement of requirements, A is availability, D is dependability, and C is capability*"
"Solid explosive detonation in direct contact with a metal body is examined to determine the energy transfer from latent chemical energy of an explosive into kinetic energy of the neighboring body structural members and spacecraft. Much of this is of an empirical nature since the time-dependent, three-dimensional problem involves extremely difficult analysis. Acoustic experiments were performed on a partially constructed spacecraft. A complete set of sound intensity maps was obtained."
"The statistical performances of energy- and heterodyne-detection techniques in pulsed optical radar applications are compared. The results show that, under conditions frequently encountered in practice, energy-detection can provide the better target-detection capability, in spite of the far greater complexity of the heterodyne receiver. The velocity-measurement capability of an energy-detection system can also be superior from the point of view of the error probabilities achieved. The advantages of the more complex and critical heterodyne technique lie in its vastly superior velocity-resolution capability and in its superior performance in very noisy environments."
"The nature of physical phenomena is such that scattering from portions of an object, a number of objects, or clutter, is not completely unrelated; the underlying environment causes some degree of order in the phenomenon. Radar partial coherence theory describes a structure for the general target, or clutter, and its relationship to radar cross section, waveform coding, and the radar output signal. The clutter ambiguity function is introduced for extended bodies and embraces the (Woodward) ambiguity function for a point target. Due to nonlinear effects caused by partial coherence within the general target, radar signals and targets are formulated in terms of mutual coherence functions. The basic quantities describing the radar output are 1) the radar mutual coherence function (formulated in terms of the radar waveform) and 2) the target mutual coherence function which depends upon target properties, physical environment, and viewing aspect. Random noise (independent point scatterers) and partially coherent portions of reflecting bodies are made accountable in the theory. Partial coherence effects are treated as patches of reflected energy: self-coherent energy patches plus mutually coherent energy among the patches."
"Digital computers have evolved to an active role as components in communication systems, performing such functions as data processing, executive and adaptive control, management of waveform, and antenna characteristic selection. At one time, the interface between communication equipment and data processing was clear. At present, however, the computer is capable of accomplishing, by using digital techniques, so many classically analog functions that there is basically no interface. The discussion considers the extent to which this trend toward full utilization of digital techniques can and should be extended."
"In this paper we consider the problem of estimation of angle of arrival in an Amplitude Comparison Monopulse antenna arrangement with the explicit inclusion of internally generated thermal, i.e., receiver, noise as an interference to the desired measurement. A pulsed type radar is assumed, and an ideal (i.e., point) radar target is postulated. This latter restriction is made so that consideration of the effects of target scintillation, glint, or other external random phenomena can be excluded from our treatment of the problem. In this context, a maximum likelihood analysis is made to determine the form of the estimate of angle of arrival, and the probability density function (pdf) of this quantity is computed. The form of the estimate is found to be a ratio of Gaussian variables quite like that used in conventional monopulse signal processing. The pdf obtained for the estimate is believed to be new, and it serves to emphasize the bias and indeterminate variance effects associated with this type of nonlinear signal processing. Some useful approximations to the pdf are discussed, and a unit of precision for the estimate is defined."
"Spacecraft propulsion is the area needing expansion of capabilities over the next several years. The capability for lofting large payloads (up to one-quarter million pounds) into space is virtually in hand. The ability to transport payloads and men in the space arena, to conduct rendezvous maneuvers, and to orbit and land on the planets, as well as the moon, now needs implementation in better and more efficient machinery. Transporting men to the planets is feasible with systems already demonstrated. Their development is a matter of decision, investment, and time."
"Pontryagin's maximum principle is applied to minimize the time for a phase-locked loop to lock to a step change in frequency. In particular, a Type II phase-locked loop is considered in detail. Phase control and frequency control of the input signal are analyzed with the nonlinearity of the phase detector taken into consideration. It is shown that application of Pontryagin's maximum principle offers a decided advantage in shortening this time by proper control."
"This paper is the complete text of an address given at the IEEE meeting in New York on March 23, 1966, in \"Undersea Technology Session,\" covering the U. S. Navy's furtherance of the development of Ocean Engineering and some plans for the future. The items covered include the deep submergence systems project, SEALAB III, salvage work packages circa 1967, and additions to the Marine Engineering Laboratory."
"This paper discusses the results of an analytic study of the feasibility of using microwave radiometry as a technique for navigation data sensing in Army aircraft. The study included a review of Army aircraft characteristics and navigation requirements. Various means of sensing passively aircraft velocity, altitude, and velocity-altitude ratio were considered. While there appears to be no practical method for direct measurement of either velocity or altitude separately, it does appear possible to measure velocity-altitude ratio by comparing radiometric signals received from the terrain along the aircraft ground track. When combined with a radar altimeter, such a sensor could yield navigation data compatible with Army aircraft requirements. Microwave radiometry may also be the basis for direction sensing (to known landmarks) in high-flying aircraft or satellites."
"The drift angle of an inertial platform which is gyro-stabilized with respect to inertial space is equal to the integral of the gyro drift rate. Under controlled laboratory environment the drift angle, denoted by y, may be measured and plotted against time in an interval [0, T]. Without loss in generality, one may take y(0)= 0. A straight line yf can be found, such that the quantity E2 is minimized, where \\begin{equation*}E^2 = {\\frac{1}{T}\\int^{T}_{0}(y-y_f)^{2}}dt.\\end{equation*} The equation for yf is of the form yf = at + b and, in general, both a and b are nonzero. It is desirable to determine a statistical relationship between the gyro drift rate and the expected value of the minimum E2 for any given interval T. An analysis in this paper determines this relationship and derives a general expression for , where the symbol <*> denotes statistical expectation. It is found that  increases linearly with the variance of the gyro drift rate. This general formula is then developed in detail for the case of a first-order Markovian gyro drift.  is evaluated numerically and its square root plotted vs. the interval T and the gyro correlation time. The same problem is also solved for the case when yf is constrained to intersect the origin, i.e., when b=0."
"This paper investigates the stability analysis of nonlinear inertial guidance platform control systems. The principle technique used for this investigation is the direct method of Lyapunov. First, stability criteria are derived for third- and fourth-order systems with saturation type nonlinearity by using the technique developed by R. E. Kalman and Z. V. Rekasius. A method of finding the maximum loop gain g/h is then shown, and the results are compared with those obtained by linear analyses. Finally, the stability criteria are extended to the cases when a coulomb friction type nonlinearity is included."
"Previous literature has analyzed PCM/FM telemetry systems using idealized FM demodulators at the receiver. However, in many systems operating today, phase-lock loop demodulators are employed which depart noticeably from ideal operation as the loop falls \"out of lock.\" In this paper an approximate expression for error probability is derived, which clearly indicates the effect of the loop on the previously published data using ideal discriminators. It is shown that the presence of the loop becomes apparent at input signal-to-noise ratios below approximately 3.5 dB, while the amount of error increase over the ideal case depends, to a large extent, upon the shape of IF filtering being used."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Lists the institutions that support this publication."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"The successful development of expendable instruments in oceanography is certainly one of the most exciting advances in the rapidly evolving technology of oceanography. It appears that microelectronics may be especially well qualified in this field. The economics of ship operations and expediency tend to dictate this new development."
"The author is concerned with the lack of performance built into many of the instruments provided for today's underseas research: over 35 percent of the \"off-the-shelf\" equipment fails to operate as delivered, while 75 percent of the developmental hardware fails to meet specifications, and 50 percent of the delivered developmental equipment fails to work. These figures, in part, detail why our progress is being impeded, and the consensus is that the lack of competent engineering may well be the most serious problem."
"SUSAN is a novel electronic Doppler navigation system which can be used with moving vehicles including aircraft, missiles, satellites, and ships. The system uses a technique of time delays and frequency multiplication to determine the rates of change of the Doppler frequency component present on a signal received from a moving vehicle. From this information the range and velocity of the vehicle can be determined with respect to a transmitting station whose position or ephemeris is known."
"All sampling representations of band-limited signals involve infinite sums. The truncation error associated with a given representation is defined as the difference between the signal and an approximating sum utilizing a finite number of terms. In this paper truncation error is expressed as a contour integral for Lagrange interpolation, general Hermite interpolation, the Shannon series (cardinal series), the Fogel derivative series, and multidimensional sampling expansions. Truncation error bounds are obtained under various constraints on the signal magnitude, spectral smoothness, and energy content."
"The confidence limits for the pointing error of a gimbaled sensor relative to an off-gimbal reference are derived in this paper. The various misalignment angles and errors that lead to discrepancies between the indicated and the actual pointing direction are discussed in detail. A mathematical model is developed from which the statistics of the pointing error are derived. The confidence limits are obtained for a variety of cases."
"This paper deals precisely with the effect of quantum or step size in an analog-to-digital converter on the quantization noise in the output of MTI (moving target indication) radar processors. The correlation between quantization errors on successive pulses is considered in the analysis and is shown to have a small quieting effect on the output quantization noise."
"The purpose of this paper is to investigate the signal distortion which results when long, series-fed arrays are used for communication. It is shown that under certain conditions the antenna array can be considered a linear filter, the response of which is a function of frequency as well as spatial coordinates. The distortion accompanying the transmission as measured by the least mean-square difference between the transmitted and the received signals is derived. This expression is evaluated for the case of a uniformly excited array and a rectangular band-pass signal spectrum. In the absence of noise the transmitted signal can be completely recovered in the receiver by employing the proper linear filter. In the presence of noise the signal cannot, of course, be completely recovered. However, a technique for minimizing the distortion, in this case using a pre-filter and a post-filter, is investigated."
"The problem of optimally processing data with unknown focus is investigated. Optimum data processors are found by the method of maximum likelihood under a variety of assumptions that apply to most of the situations arising in practice. The unknown focus may be either an unknown parameter or an unknown random variable; the signal may be of known form or a random function; it is further assumed that the signal is received in additive, white, Gaussian noise. The problems of jointly estimating other unknown parameters and, in the case of a random signal, jointly estimating the signal, are also treated. The asymptotic variance and correlation of the estimators is discussed. Electrooptical realizations of the maximum likelihood computers are given. An iterative method of solution of the likelihood equation is also discussed. The discussion and results are directly applicable to the processing of synthetic aperture radar data."
"This paper deals with the performance of pulse Doppler radar in the presence of random fading. The behavior of this radar is studied as a statistical problem to bring out the limiting bounds of the ambiguity diagram and the nature of variance with respect to the Doppler frequency. The performance of the radar insofar as the first sidelobe is concerned, is shown to be better in the presence of fading than in the normal case. In a particular case where 75 pulses out of an aggregate of 250 pulses are missing, the first sidelobe level is 20.0 dB down from the main lobe with a probability of 23 percent."
"This paper describes the principle and the signal design of a proposed new FM radar system. In order to measure the surface characteristics of a small target at a long distance, or to discriminate among multiple targets, very accurate range or Doppler resolutions are necessary [1]. The proposed system satisfies the range resolution requirement by detecting the target with two different resolutions: coarse resolution for measuring range, and fine resolution for measuring the target details. The principal advantage of the system is in the vernier scale for the measurement of a distance. The system is just as easily realizable as conventional FM radar, requires no special filters in the receiver, and represents a saving in the required bandwidth for the same range resolution."
"Uniform coherent pulse trains offer a practical solution to the problem of designing a radar signal possessing both high range and range-rate resolution. The Doppler sensitivity provides some rejection of off-Doppler (clutter) returns in the matched filter receiver. This paper considers the use of a processor in which members of the received pulse train are selectively weighted in amplitude and phase to improve clutter suppression. The techniques described are particularly suitable for rejecting interference entering the processor through ambiguous responses (range sidelobes) of the signal. The complex weights which are derived are optimum in the sense that they produce the maximum clutter suppression for a given detection efficiency. In determining these weights, it is assumed that the distribution of clutter in range and range rate relative to targets of interest is known. Thus, clutter suppression is achieved by reducing the sidelobe levels in specified regions of the receiver response. These techniques are directly applicable to array antennas; the analogous antenna problem would be to reduce sidelobe levels in a particular sector while preserving gain. Complex weighting is most successful when the clutter is limited in both range and velocity."
"If impending failures in aerospace systems can be predicted deterministically during a test or checkout period, action can be taken to replace or repair the defective parts and a mission failure averted. This has the effect of increasing the mission reliability of the system. There are several methods of predicting specific failures especially adapted to electronic systems, but also applicable to electromechanical and fluid systems and components. These are classified and discussed in detail, with examples. References are cited for additional detail. By way of background, deterministic failure prediction is contrasted with statistical failure prediction. The nature and definition of failure and related concepts are also discussed, together with the physical principles upon which the several failure prediction methods are based. Used selectively and collectively, these failure prediction methods can form an optimal failure prevention strategy for use in a system test or checkout program."
"The technical papers published in the SUPPLEMENT are indexed below with the Abstracts that were available at printing time following the Index in the same order. The criteria utilized for the review of the contents are printed in the SUPPLEMENT. \"Presented only\" indicates that the paper is being presented at the Convention but is not published in the SUPPLEMENT."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Cover page to the Index to IEEE Transactions on Aerospace and Electronic Systems."
"The following author listings include title of paper, page number, and month. (C) indicates Correspondence; (Suppl) indicates Supplement."
"The following author listings include title of paper, page number, and month."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Lists the institutions that support this publication."
"Presents the front cover of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"The following author listings include title of paper, page number, and month."
"The self-charging of radioactive ultrafine particles, which is temperature independent, has a number of applications. The use explored in this preliminary study indicates that the enhancement of more than an order of magnitude in MHD conductivity is possible, if nonequilibrium can be maintained. The creation of ion pairs, the relationship between equilibrium and nonequilibrium effects, and the general radioactive behavior of ultrafine particles are areas that require further investigation."
"The theory, fabrication, and performance of Bi2Te3 alloy-based flat plate thermoelectric generator for near-earth orbits have been previously described.1 A power output of 3. 1 watts/ft2 to a matched load at a solar flux of 130 watts/ft2 and 30 watts/lb at the unit cell stage is achieved. This paper presents changes in process and manufacturing procedures suitable for a production rate of 25 unit solar cells per day and providing considerably longer lifetime. The cells are to be used for the fabrication of panels of 6 ft2 area. Previous results of cyclic life test have shown a lifetime up to 2000 cycles, approximately simulating the conditions of an earth orbit. The process changes described enable a lifetime of 20,000 cycles as indicated by less than 10% degradation in ac resistance and a decrease in power output of 20%. In order to achieve accelerated life testing, a cycle time of 10 minutes was used. The absorber plate was maintained at 250°C for 7 minutes with 1 minute being used to change from 72°C and 2 minutes to cool to 72°C. The radiator plate was maintained at approximately 73°C. These conditions simulate very severe flat plate operating conditions."
"The Nimbus program is a major research effort in the development of satellite technology for meteorological purposes. Global cloudcover information is provided by sensors mounted on a 3-axis stabilized, earthoriented spacecraft. Electrical power for the spacecraft and sensors is provided by a solar-conversion energy-storage subsystem. This paper describes the evolution of the power supply subsystems designed for use on the Nimbus spacecraft. The original design, generated during the period 1961-1963, used dissipative regulation techniques and simple battery protection circuits. Battery overcharge protection was provided by ground control of special spacecraft loads. This type of system was successfully flown on Nimbus 1 in August 1964 and on Nimbus 2 in May 1966. The second generation design, currently being fabricated for test and evaluation, is intended for operational flight use in late 1967. The system concept, based on research and development effort in the period 1962-65, incorporates nondissipative regulation techniques and automatic battery overcharge control. A new concept, intended for use in a third generation Nimbus power system, is presently being explored. Recent advances in power conditioning technology will allow substantial gains in terms of extended spacecraft life or increased load capability. The new technology, called maximum power point tracking, assures more optimum source-to-load energy transfer. Thus, the increase in available solar cell energy caused by periodic, large, low-temperature excursions of the Nimbus solar array can be fully utilized."
"The subject of impedance matching is well known in engineering. Whenever a power source containing some finite resistance is expected to supply power to a load, maximum power is obtained when the resistance of the load is made equal to the resistance of the source. This problem becomes serious as the ratings of the power sources become larger. In space applications, thermoelectric generators and solar cell arrays capable of supplying hundreds of watts of usable power are not uncommon. In order to utilize the maximum capabilities of sources such as these, the load impedance and the source impedance should be equal at all times. This paper describes a method whereby impedance matching can be accomplished automatically in a dc circuit, regardless of load or source characteristics."
"This paper describes a technique for the design of power conditioning equipment which insures optimal power transfer from a solar cell array to its load. This new concept, called \"adaptive\" power conditioning, forces a solar cell to operate at its maximum power point, regardless of its environment, its impedances, or changes in the source volt-ampere characteristics. When I autodemands decrease, the adaptive feature is automatically disabled and surplus energy remains in the solar array without contributing to satellite overheating or battery overcharging."
"To determine the potential of a spacecraft, an electric field meter is needed to measure the field at the surface and in the neighborhood of the craft. A search was made for field measuring methods which would not involve rapidly moving parts. Several of these methods are discussed along with some experimental work performed to determine their feasibility. The use of the Stark effect in the rotational spectra of gases appears to be the most promising method considered and it is discussed in more detail."
"The design and assessment of PCM/FM/PM, FM/FM, and FM/PM telemetry links requires the generation of DB Allocations. These allocations summarize the system transmitted power, gains, losses, noise spectral densities, predetection noise bandwidths, modulation losses, predetection and threshold signal-to-noise ratios, and resultant DB margins. A multiplicity of such links, typical of spacecraft telecommunications subsystems, leads to an inordinate amount of detailed hand calculation. This paper presents a mechanization of the DB margin summary procedure via computer program. The program output format is designed so that the link summary obtained can be directly reproduced with essentially no intermediate typing necessary. A large number of links, with parametric variations, can very quickly be synthesized or analyzed with short computer run times at a minimal cost. Copies of the program listing are available."
"A newly developed high-efficiency S-band tracking feed is described. It is a focal-point feed designed primarily for use with parabolic reflectors in the 15 to 25 foot diameter class. A five-element aperture geometry was developed to obtain improved performance in sum and difference pattern efficiency over that normally obtained with four-element, hybrid-comparator feeds. Two major e mprovements were obtained: a. Elimination of the conventional hybrid comparator resulted in the \"ultimate\" sum-channel efficiency, hence minimum noise temperature degradation due to feed losses. b. Independent control of the difference-pattern illumination produced \"near-optimum\" gainslope performance simultaneously with optimized sum-channel illumination. Design theory for this feed geometry is discussed, and measured impedance and radiation pattern data obtained from the finished feed system are presented."
"The instrumentation on SNAP 10A, the world's first nuclear reactor space power system, was evaluated. Flight test information requirements, based on SNAPSHOT test experience, were summarized to provide criteria for judging instrument performance. Generally performance and reliability were good, but as with any initial flight test, instrumentation selected early in the program was not always optimum. These exceptions are emphasized. Larger flight test data errors caused changes in the relative usefulness of different types of instruments in flight compared to ground tests."
"In the field of training and simulation techniques there has long been a need for a device which could be used to effectively expose radar operators to the effects of jamming caused by chaff. Chaff consists of strips of metal which are dispensed from aircraft either by ejection or by a series of drops. Each bundle of chaff contains thousands of these metal strips, cut in various lengths to act as reflectors to a variety of radar frequencies. Chaff is generally dispensed in the area between a radar site and the group of aircraft to be shielded from the radar site. Once the chaff is released normal air currents and gravity cause the chaff to disperse and drift. The radar interference effects can last as long as 30 minutes. A chaff simulator was developed to realistically provide video inputs to operational radar equipment for the purpose of exposing radar operators to this type of jamming. The physical nature of this type of jamming necessitates the use of a three dimensional simulation concept which effectively takes into account the azimuth and elevation beam widths of the radar antenna. A hybrid digital/analog simulator has been developed which provides a realistic radar presentation including the effects of wind, gravity, radar range, scintillation, and antenna pattern. The system is divided into several building blocks, including a target motion generator, the electronic chaff dispenser unit, the chaff position memory unit, the analog computer, the radar simulator, and the video processor."
"A computer logic model has been used to anticipate the functioning of an electronic system over its complete life span. Performance, cost, and availability comparisons were made between an existing equipment, Conalog, and redesigns using advanced microcircuit techniques. Results from the model indicated reductions in: cost of ownership by one-third, number of failures to one-tenth, and skill level of maintenance. Ten years of system operation were simulated using the IBM GPSS language in two minutes of IBM 7094 II time."
"The paper discusses in summary form the mechanization of the Integrated Helicopter Avionics System (IHAS) on a hybrid computer. A few of the many mathematical models which had to be established to provide a valid analysis of IHAS, and some of the results of this analysis are presented."
"This paper describes a building block visual simulation facility utilizing new generation and display techniques combined with utilizing television-model image generation methods to provide a flexible facility for a variety of vehicle study applications. The facility includes independent computer controlled scene elements which are combined on television monitors and on a 10 ft x 14 ft back projection screen through the use of up to five simultaneous projection devices. Two independent scenes can be constructed simultaneously enabling simulated vehicles to \"look at\" and fly around each other. The facility features unique image generation, flexibility, and quick change-over from one type of vehicle to another. Complete change-over is often done dailyduring the course of simulation study programs."
"This paper discusses the operational and circuit features of a laboratory device built to simulate the dynamic electrical output characteristics of a solar array in orbital flight. Operational controls provide for adjustment of the static electrical characteristics so that solar arrays of various configurations and capacities can be simulated with a reasonably high degree of accuracy. The programming feature of the system extends the capability to cover simulation of the predictable changes in characteristics exhibited by a solar array in response to changes in environment. This includes the exponential temperature changes resulting from the solar array's passing in and out of the earth's shadow as well as the changes in illumination seen by the solar array as the satellite rotates on any chosen axis. The basic system consists of a special purpose analog computer capable of generating a reference voltage in response to electrical inputs simulating the present yalue of load current, temperature and illumination and an output unit which is essentially a DC amplifier that applies a proportional voltage across the load. In the prototype system, the output unit was sized to produce approximately 300 watts. In the programmer portion of the system, the electrical signal simulating temperature is generated in an R-C circuit having a time constant which matches the \"heat up\" thermal time constant of the actual array. Simulation of the pattern of illumination accompanying satellite rotation is accomplished by an optical cam system."
"This paper describes the Data Automation System used on board the Mariner-Mars probe. The system, which accounted for one-third of the total electronic components in the spacecraft, gathered information from six scientific experiments and a television camera and prepared the data for transmission to earth. The Mariner Mars Data Automation System is a high-density, low-power, solid-state electronic system. A description of the system operation, the data conversion techniques employed, and the circuitry used to implement the system are presented. A description of the unique hardware developed for this system is also given."
"A data processing system which transforms photographic scans of the moon into rectified lunar pictures has been developed during the LUNAR AIMP satellite program of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration's Goddard Space Flight Center. Three coplanar narrowbeam optical sensors mounted on the spinning satellite provide the photographic input to the system. The satellite's processor determines what lunar image data to transmit, delta-modulating and interleaving these data with necessary navigational parameters. The ground processor reconstitutes the delta-modulated image data into lunar pictures, arranged so as to give the appearance of being the projection of the lunar surface onto one of 24 projection planes. This conversion is performed by first locating each lunar element corresponding to an item of image data. Next the projection plane is selected, either as input or by the program. The lunar elements are then mathematically projected onto the plane. This projection is formatted onto magnetic tape, from which the output picture is generated. In the paper, particular attention is paid to the information flow in the overall spacecraft/ ground-processor system. Some reisults of simulations of portions of the systems by personnel of NASA, Goddard Space Flight Center, and the Image Processing Department of the Federal Systems Division of International Business Machines Corporation (IBM), and of the processing of moon surface imagery on IBM's Electro-Optical Simulation Facility (EOSF) are provided."
"The data signal modulates the period of a carrier in a linear fashion to obtain the same benefits offered by FM tape recording. A discriminator for this type of modulation can have significantly less spurious output at the carrier and its second harmonic than pulse-counting FM discriminators. This may allow wider modulation bandwidth or simplify post-detection filtering. Digital techniques can be employed to yield a system with a very stable overall transfer function."
"When more than one radar is being used to track a re-entry vehicle during its re-entry phase, a Best Estimate of Trajectory (BET) computation is used to find the vehicle's position. In addition, two ancilliary numerical filters may be used, one to integrate radar range rate measurements so that they may be inputted to the BET in an efficient manner, and the other to differentiate the BET output so as to obtain the vehicle's velocity and acceleration. The ancilliary filters are discussed in this paper, and it is shown how to design them so that they adapt their characteristics to the a priori statistics of the actual data being handled."
"A telemetry system has been developed for meteorological investigations of the upper atmosphere that is capable of withstanding gun-launched environments of 60 000 g. This system was developed for the Project HARP (High Altitude Research Probe) 5-inch gun. The telemeter is part of a parachute payload that is ejected at altitudes up to 70 km and records temperature during descent. The telemeter consists of a VHF transmitter, with a power output of 300 milliwatts, modulated by a standard IRIG subcarrier oscillator. An in-flight calibrator is used to obtain a 2-point resistance calibration at the input of the SCO. The system is powered by nickel cadmium batteries and is capable of transmission for periods from 30 to 60 minutes."
"The advent of low-cost microelectronics and of large-scale integration (LSI) in particular has made it practical to design adaptable circuits and systems to achieve various significant objectives. The two objectives discussed in this paper are the design and technology of Microelectronic Multifunction Circuit Blocks to specifically simplify the logistics support problem of large, long-life military systems and the use of Dynamically Redundant Microelectronic Circuit Blocks to mechanize efficient self-repair systems. Presently practical adaptation techniques involve reversible and irresversible electronic modification of the interconnection pattern which is super-imposed on a matrix of components or of logic or analog circuits. Future possibilities include changes in the component characteristics themselves. Among the various design and technological approaches to adaptable multifunction microcircuits the Pin-Programmable Adaptable Microcircuits are recognized as the most versatile. This adaptation scheme is then extended to include dynamically redundant microcircuits. The basic principle of dynamic redundancy is that the interconnection paths between the redundant circuit blocks are not fixed but can be varied by external control signals. This adaptation is accomplished by switches placed around distribution points in the interconnection pattern. The switches are opened and closed by a logic control network programmed by an Equipment Redundacny Programme. Each circuit can operate in various Redundancy Modes depending on the state of the switches around it. The basic terms are defined and the advantages of dynamic redundancy are listed."
"A new approach to the organization of a reliable aerospace computer system is described in this paper. The organization is based on the use of a multithreading design in which a multiplicity of paths are available, any of which can perform the minimum data processing functions. The combination of all of the multithreading paths comprises a total data processing system which is capable of handling more than the minimum task for which the highest reliability is required. This approach utilizes active redundancy to provide a higher capability for more extensive data processing tasks during that period in which no failures have occurred. Optimum utilization of system weight is achieved through use of a minimum of inactive redundant hardware."
"We forsee gradual increase in telephone requirements based on increased agency missions and new agency needs. Perhaps calling volume during fiscal year 1967 rising to 50,000,000 calls per year. Greater usage of this voice network during night periods for various transmission requirements. Expansion of the ARS to provide more effective data communications with a subsequent reduction in the number of computers the US Government requires. Establishment of central Government data banks with access by agencies to be provided by the ARS. The utilization of simulation techniques to determine network configurations will be implemented. These are the near future changes. Eventually, we forsee the utilization of satellites for domestic emergency and broadband communications, the expansion of the FTS to overseas locations where such expansion can result in better service at reduced costs. The mission of the US Federal Telecommunications System (FTS) is to provide Government communications on a day-to-day basis and to have the capability of meeting the emergency requirements whether the result of natural causes or man made."
"Potentially high levels of reliability are inherent in the phased array radar concept if advantage is taken of its graceful degradation characteristics through careful design and provision for proper maintenance support. This paper will be specifically directed to the maintenance problem associated with the replacement and repair of the transmitter and/or receiver modules in the array. The application of queueing theory to aid in the solution of these problems is shown through an illustrative example. The queueing model is also used as quantitative criteria for making tradeoff studies in the determination of the number of repair facilities and spare modules required."
"Early communications experiments and tests conducted by NASA Goddard Space Flight Center with the Relay and Syncom II satellites pointed out the need for better and faster data acquisition and reduction techniques. One of the main objectives of the ATS communications experiments was to develop a data system which would totally automate the data acquisition and data reduction process. This paper describes the hardware and software methods, techniques, and philosophies associated with the development of an automatic data handling system for the ATS communications experiments. The system described herein is the forerunner for the new generation of highly sophisticated, automated data systems of the future."
"This paper describes a systematic approach for apportioning the mean corrective times (Mct) of equipment, based upon a technique employing maintainability features, usage, and reliability data. Weight (K) factors are assigned commensurate with the eauipment's importance to the system's mission and the design features necessary to maintain the equipment within the customer's constraints. Each item of equipment is evaluated in accordance with apportioned reliability data and the degree of maintainability incorporated in the conceptual designs. The technique yields values that can be met by diligent application of maintainability principles during equipment design."
"The feasibility of instrumenting earth-space and satellite-satellite links is analyzed for frequencies between 30 and 100 GHz. Propagation and orbital parameters are considered, and data (mainly from computer programs) are presented on time-in-view for various ground locations, mutual visibility time between two orbiting satellites, effects of limiting the antenna elevation angle excursion, antenna pointing considerations, antenna types and gain/beamwidth limitations, and available ground station facilities. Orbits range from 100 to 19,357 nautical miles (nmi) altitude (synchronous) and from O° (equatorial) to 90° (polar) inclination angles. System design parameters are tabulated for typical links, including transmitter power requirements, doppler shifts, tradeoffs in bandwidth, range, power, and antenna gains. The millimeter wave equipment situation is reviewed because any space system will be limited by the state-of-the-art in hardware and techniques, including performance, reliability, weight, space, and power requirements."
"A sophisticated laser communication system has been built and tested both in the laboratory and over field distances. It is envisioned that laser systems using the same techniques might someday return real time television and telemetry from manned interplanetary spacecraft. In the breadboard system, commercial rate television, sound, and a data channel are multiplexed into a thirty million bit per second pulse code modulation (PCM) format, and this signal is modulated onto the laser beam using polarization modulation (PL). We believe this is the first application of a high power Argon ion laser in a communication system. This paper contains an illustrated description of the system, a brief discussion of problems associated with the integration of the high power laser and the wide band modulator, and a summary of experimental results obtained under field conditions. Photographs of the TV monitor, transmitted under various atmospheric conditions, are included."
"The need for digital simulation or modeling of linear modulated communication and control systems frequently arises. This paper presents a method for accomplishing this task which has outstanding computational efficiency. It applies to those situations in which the input to the modulator or detector can be presented as a sum of sinusoids of arbitrary amplitudes, phases, and frequencies. Post modulator or post detector filtering is assumed to be accomplished by a linear stationary differential system. The method is considerably more efficient than conventional methods because the action of the modulator or detector is accounted for analytically and because an alternate expression for the transition matrix is employed which eliminates derivatives of the input signal from the integrand of the convolution of the transition matrix. The advantages accruing to these measures are demonstrated by two examples, one of which is frequently encountered in discrete phaselock loops and in identification of system parameters by sinusoidal response methods."
"The problem of the theoretical motion of a submarine beneath a realistic sea is treated. The various forces on an ellipsoidal hull due to a multidirectional sea are derived including diffraction effects. The modification of these forces due to a thin sail is established. Numerical techniques are introduced that make the computation of the total sea force more efficient. The resultant description of ship motion is being used by Vitro Laboratories in the simulation of the POLARIS Weapon System."
"The paper presents a model for systematically and analytically comparing various communication system alternatives and for selecting the system that best satisfies given operational and technical requirements. The model is organized into three submodels--information requirements, communication systems, and communication technology. The paper discusses the analytical framework of each submodel highlighting significant computations and analytical techniques. Utility of the model in converting command and control derived information transfer requirements into physical and performance specifications for communication systems and equipment is discussed in detail."
"The preferred method for the measurement or specification of guidance system errors is the percentile grouping, which states that a predetermined miss distance is not exceeded by a certain percentage of the data. The percentage to be used is a function of the tradeoff between the costs of constructing and testing the systems versus the costs associated with missing the target area. Advantages of this method include immunity to variations in the error model, immunity to the effects of occasional bad data points, simplicity of analysis, and proper appraisal of guidance system requirements. Methods for combining percentile specifications of orthogonal components and of additive errors of guidance systems are derived, which indicate that the error analysis of a guidance system can be formulated without requiring detailed knowledge of the nature of the error distribution."
"The adverse environment of the lunar surface requires the implementation of unique land vehicle navigation techniques, concepts, and components to perform postulated future lunar surface navigation functions. Subject to the lunar environmental constraints, three generalized lunar surface navigation concepts are modeled and analyzed. The generalized hybrid concepts, consisting of both position fix and dead reckoning subconcepts, are a passive non-gyro, and inertial, and rf system. A generalized error model of the lunar surface navigation function, is applied to assess navigation system accuracy for each of the three systems. The analytical approach to model derivation is basically the covariance technique where 3 sigma error parameters of equipment errors and 3 sigma error measures of lunar physical uncertainties are related to a 3 sigma vehicle position error ellipsoid about a true point on the lunar surface. The error model digital computer program is applied to the navigation concepts and results are shown which indicate representative component and total concept accuracy requirements for lunar surface navigation in the 1972 to 1985 era."
"The improved National Airspace System (NAS), when implemented, will make automation available in air traffic control services from takeoff to landing wherever such automation is warranted. This aim is to be achieved in stages and this paper will concern itself primarily with the first stage implementation, called NAS En Route Stage A. This first stage is designed to provide a significant amount of automation for the Air Route Traffic Control Centers, with an objective of assisting the air traffic controller in his job and providing an increased level of efficiency and safety in the Air Traffic Control System. The modular nature of the Central Computer Complex which is to be implemented and the design principles used in specifying its characteristics are discussed in addition to the computer programing being developed to perform the required tasks."
"The Advanced Radar Traffic Control System (ARTS) is the first field application of digitaldata processing and display equipment to air traffic control in a medium-density terminal area. ARTS provides alpha-numeric data displayed on controllers' scopes, consisting of aircraft identity, flight plan altitude, track number, and actual beacon-reported aircraft altitude and code. The alpha-numeric data with identity and altitude reporting and features of handoff, hold, and store areas will materially assist the controller, resulting in improved traffic control and reducing much of the verbal coordination otherwise required. The DAIR System (Direct Altitude and Identity Readout), a derivative system of ARTS, may be the means of achieving some of the benefits of automatic radar beacon processing at a cost and simplicity suitable for implementation at FAA lower-density terminal areas, and military RAPCON, RATCC, and mobile GCA facilities. A description of the joint FAA/DOD DAIR program background, design goals and operational characteristics is presented together with a report of development progress to date."
"One of the most effective tools for use in air traffic control experimentation, evaluation, and systems studies is the Simulation Laboratory of the Federal Aviation Agency's National Facilities Experimental Center (NAFEC) located at Atlantic City, New Jersey. Currently at NAFEC, systems combining analog and digitalsimulated radar target generation techniques are employed to provide the most comprehensive air traffic control simulation laboratory in existence in the world. This paper describes the FAA simulation systems which have been developed for use in expediting progress in the continuing quest for greater safety and efficiency in air traffic control."
"System designs and specifications have been prepared to more fully automate the National Weather Teletypewriter Networks and the Aeronautical Fixed Telecommunications Networks operated by the FAA. This paper describes the application of solid-state, programmable, real time, electronic data processors to centralize and control the store-and-forward message switching functions for these two systems. This will result in greatly increased data volume capabilities, speed of delivery, and overall data handling flexibility for the two systems. Significant reductions in operating costs will also be achieved."
"The project HAPDAR (HArd Point Demonstration Array Radar) is a part of Project Defender, sponsored by the Advanced Research Projects Agency, Department of Defense, under ARPA Order Number 516 and contracted through the Army Missile Command. An attractive practical phased array radar system design is described in this paper. The HAPDAR radar is a multimode multifunction system capable of electronic scanning a pencil beam in two dimensions. The principal design feature is the TACOL (Thinned Aperture Computed Lens) approach to the antenna design. The lens is a passive array capable of collimating the beam and steering it in the desired direction. A single klystron transmitted illuminates the lens and a standard monopulse feed is used to extract angular errors. The design principles of TACOL are discussed and a complete description of the radar is presented."
"An interferometer antenna is one of several techniques by which it is possible to realize a large aperture economically. It has been known for many years that the far field interferometer antenna pattern contains many grating lobes when the antenna is energized by a CW signal. However, for wideband signals of finite duration, the antenna pattern is considerably altered. In the present paper, an interferometer multidimensional ambiguity function is defined to determine performance limitations on an interferometer radar with respect to target range R, range rate R, angle, and angle rate."
"Higher order waveguide mode radiation can be incorporated into antenna feed systems to provide significant improvements in antenna performance with full polarization diversity. Multimode techniques may provide full monopulse capability from a single aperture and may simultaneously be used to broaden the monopulse reference pattern. The inherent adaptability of the basic multimode feed to dual frequency operation permits the introduction of independent dominant mode excitation at a lower frequency band. Multimode beam broadening techniques are then used to equalize the high frequency patterns with those in the low frequency band to provide a high efficiency common aperture dual frequency feed."
"The radar backscattering cross-sections of various land and sea surfaces were measured by a unique device called a scatterometer.2 The scatterometer measures radar backscattering of the terrain at all angles of incidence simultaneously by utilizing the doppler spectral density of an airborne radar system. The system was vertically polarized and had a transmitter frequency of 13.3 Gc."
"Selective imaging of objects in range is demonstrated using a giant pulse ruby laser illuminator synchronized with a high speed Kerr cell camera. Elimination of film exposure due to backscatter in a turbid atmosphere is accomplished. Analytic expressions for film exposure due to gated target returns and backscatter luminance are derived. Data obtained for exposures over a 300 meter clear atmospheric path and a 30 meter turbid atmospheric path, α≈ 6.7 x 10-2 meter-1, agree with predicted results. The technique is a useful operational mode for short range pulsed laser imaging systems under adverseseeing conditions."
"Since space mission success depends heavily upon radio frequency link with Earth, the characteristics of plasma as a propagation medium are vital in telecommunication system design. This paper presents general discussion and develops an analytic methodology to identify propagation difficulties and anomalies caused by characteristic plasma behavior. A typical space mission requirement is outlined, values of pertinent environmental parameters are obtained or estimated, and the results are compared with observed data and the correlations discussed."
"A concept of an interfacing system which provides real-time interaction between automated command centers over a variety of communications links has been developed. A traffic analysis has been conducted to determine the qualitative nature and the quantitative dimensions of the required real-time interaction. The interfacing system concept is shown to be both feasible and practical, and a communications/system control configuration at a particular military command center is developed."
"This paper demonstrates that reliability of static and rotating magnetic memories applicable to command and control systems can be predicted with sufficient accuracy to be of some value in making system design decisions, using logical extensions of prediction methods in existing reliability handbooks. It is shown that fixed-head rotating magnetic memories are the most reliable large-scale, random-access memories now available, based on MTBF and volume of data stored. It is also noted that modular arrangements of static memory modules can be used to achieve high system memory reliability."
"To determine the information processing requirements for command systems, it is necessary to specify how the command interacts with other organizations to achieve specific solutions to common problems. The system's solution processes are describable through an approach which models these organizations as an information environment. This contextual solution is stated as a sequence of information transforms which unite the judgmental as well as computational processeswhich underly the systems decision structure."
"A method has been developed which allows expeditious modeling of military systems, especially command-control and communications. This method, Dynamic Systems Analysis, determines both transient and steady-state system responses. The effects of technical performance parameters, reliability, human factors, and other system aspects can be incorporated. The equations used are simple, and the model structure follows closely the real-life counterpart. The method is easy to explain to laymen."
"Moving targets submerged in clutter can be more readily detected by range-gated filtering techniques. Range-gated filtering is a two-dimensional process in which target Doppler frequency and range are desired output quantities. Optical data processing techniques are inherently multidimentsional. An experimental system using a He-Ne laser source and film transparencies representing radar echoes gave output patterns in agreement with theoretical predictions. Major advantages of an optical filter are simplicity and relatively small size."
"A simple method is developed for predicting the dynamic range of a data processor (correlator) associated with a synthetic aperture mapping radar system. The primary source of noise in standard optical correlators is the data film base and grain noise. The primary noise in an electronic correlator (using photographic film for data storage) is phosphor noise and data film grain noise. For this study however, only film grain noise was considered. The only inputs required to predict the dynamic range are the radar system parameters, the published film granularity and one other film constant called the scattering coefficient. Although this paper is restricted to the case of photographic film associated with a synthetic aperture radar system, the techniques developed are useful for other types of transparency storage material and many other applications of film transparencies for data storage."
"The NRL lunar radar system is being used to make long term, precision Earth-Moon distance measurements. A pulse compression ratio of 104 permits a high signal to noise ratio for a range resolution of 1.2 μs (180 meters). The high pulse compression ratio is achieved through the use of a pseudorandom (P-N) code, phase reversal modulation of the carrier, and a multichannel cross-correlation receiver. The transmitted signal is phase modulated by the P-N code. This code has a correlation function which permits separation of the echo in range. In each correlator, the echo is multiplied by a replica of the code with an appropriate delay, and the product is passed through a narrow band filter. The correlator output measures the energy of the echo from a range interval corresponding to the delay chosen. A separate correlator is used for each of 40 adjacent range channels. The correlation circuitry consists of ring modulators, crystal filters, and envelope detectors. The ring modulators permit compact and economical packaging of the 40 correlators. The multiple outputs are recorded on magnetic tape for analysis and are also displayed in realtime."
"The Microelectronic Radar Intercept Calculator (RIC) provides a ground controlled intercept capability when used with an air search radar. Automatic detection and course prediction provide numeric and PPI outputs for intercept problem solution. The PPI is a real time digital display. Special purpose serial computation loops use incremental techniques for track calculation. MOS-shift registers provide dynamic storage for five problems. Integrated circuits and an effective man-machine tradeoff result in a small (38 lb) tactical equipment."
"This paper presents the results of theoretical and experimental work on the performance of a traveling wave maser for monopulse radar applications. Saturation, recovery, duplexing, and gain and phase stability are discussed."
"ASW effectiveness is strongly dependent on whether sonar contact can be maintained long enough for a attack to be accomplished. Proper design and use of weapons systems both depend upon the probable duration of contact maintenance. A number of stochastic models of propagation and detection variability are considered. A method is described of fast-time tactical simulation which makes use of such models to evaluate the overall effectiveness of the sonar/weapon system combination."
"Instruments for use in the deep ocean must operate under great hydrostatic pressure. The current practice of enclosing instruments in pressure resistant housings may become obsolete since many electronic components have been found to operate satisfactorily even at a pressure of 1000 atmospheres. The instrument system which successfully located and identified the THRESHER hulk contains interesting acoustic, magnetic, and photographic sub-systems. The ship which carries this system has been uniquely configured for deep ocean research."
"The detection performance of several modulation schemes is compared when employed in the underwater medium characterized by multiple paths and doppler dispersion. Analysis is made on the basis of the signal ambiguity function and the medium spreading function which allow evaluation of sonar signals for a wide variety of medium characteristics. It is shown that phase coded pulse trains are optimum against moving targets. However, when medium spreading limitations are introduced, frequency coding becomes more profitable."
"Because active sonar systems are typically peakpower limited, and because sonar targets can often appear at speeds within the doppler spread of reverberation, pulses having large time-bandwidth (TW) products are called for. The resultant high resolution in range and doppler creates a potential problem because of multipath. Multipath is caused by multiple reflections from the two rough surfaces -- the ocean surface and the ocean bottom -- from which signals are reflected, refraction, eand by multiple reflections from the target itself. Due to motions of the echo ranging ship, the target, and the ocean surface, the multipath exhibits doppler spreading as well as time spreading. A model is postulated for the overall spreading of the signal seen at the receiver in which the magnitudes of time spreading and doppler spreading are represented by L and B. Detection performance of signals with large pulse length (T) and bandwidth (W) is derived as function of WL and BT. Performance is measured in terms of input signal level required to produce specified probabilities of detection and false alarm at the processor output. Two basic signal codes are considered -- random modulation in amplitude and/or phase (RM) and linear frequency modulation (LFM). Detection performance of a single correlator, tuned to one range and doppler, is given. Next, a processor is postulated consisting of a multiplicity of correlators covering the entire expected range and doppler spread of the signal, the outputs of which are combined incoherently."
"This paper describes a variable ratio dc transformer regulator used in a voltage boost configuration to process the main vehicle power from a solar array battery power system in the Radio Astronomy Explorer (RAE) spacecraft. The selection of the design approach for the switching regulator is presented, together with an analysis of its operation and definition of its characteristics, functional performance, and test results. The regulator transforms a variable voltage input to a constant average voltage by constant-frequency pulse width modulation. Two major advantages are high efficiency and essentially constant thermal dissipation over a wide range of input power. The boost configuration employs a power transformer and transistor switches to handle only boost power. This method significantly reduces the RF interference generated in switching as compared to other series-switching regulation techniques, for voltage step-up, or step-down. The RF interference (RFI) inherent in the use of a switching regulator presented a major problem. The circuit elements, mode of regulation, and packaging arrangement were all developed to minimize RFI with the least sacrifice of performance."
"This paper deals with design considerations for a 5-watt regulated power supply, capable of operation at 80% efficiency. The system, using pulse-width modulation as the regulating mechanism, is characterized as a dc step-down transformer. The interrelationship of such parameters as loop gain, switching frequency, and filter cutoff frequency are considered. The circuit exhibits an output resistance of 1 milliohm and a full load transient recovery time of 250 ps and has been designed for microcircuit realization."
"The transistor component failure possibilities due to voltage and power stress conditions existent in low input voltage inverters when energized by a radioisotopic thermoelectric generator source (RTG) have been investigated in depth. Circuitwise, it is shown that a properly designed current feedback driven inverter is inherently failsafe with respect to output overload when supplied from a power limited source. An RTG no-load overvoltage protection technique recently developed and described herein offers low dissipation external to the RTG source output power terminals. This is important for satellite or spacecraft applications, because it enables a reduction of radiator requirements needed for heat rejection."
"This paper describes the major design concepts considered in the development of a DC to DC prime converter for the Anchored Interplanetary Monitoring Platform (AIMP) Spacecraft. This static converter is used to transform the power from the solar array and battery into suitable levels for the instrumentation and experiment electronics. The design approach chosen incorporates a duty cycle switching pre-regulator controlled by saturable reactors, a DC to DC converter synchronized at the basic operating frequency of the pre-regulator, and series dissipative regulators exhibiting short circuit protection. A breakdown of the power losses in the pre-regulator is presented. Of particular note are the procedures followed to achieve a low magnetic field disturbance."
"This paper describes the antenna systems and equipments utilized in providing ICAO Category I, II, and III performance for the Instrument Landing System (ILS). The latest configurations for localizer, glide slope and markers are discussed. A mathematical model employing physical optics techniques and computers for calculating glide slope course bends is also discussed."
"An angular acceleration sensor for control system stabilization is described. Magnetohydrodynamic principles are applied to develop a voltage in a toroid of mercury having a permanent magnet field and electrodes. The transfer function'is given by e/θ = Ks2 /(s + 1/T)."
"A general mechanization in vehicular coordinates of a Gimballess Inertial System for space navigation is considered. The system is both nonlinear and multiloop with coupling between the loops. Linearized system error equations for the position errors are obtained and they are found to be unstable. An error damping method is proposed and it is shown that damping can be achieved. The method utilizes appropriate damping circuits and auxiliary information obtained by means of a sun tracker."
"This paper describes a gimballed, unitized stellar reference platform of high accuracy conceived by the author. Such a concept presents a straight-forward and reliable off-the-shelf system ideally suited for virtually any space mission requiring a highly accurate inertial reference, while eliminating numerous disadvantages of conventional systems. Also discussed is an optical lobing technique analagous to radar methods for greatly increased accuracy. Patent disclosures on both concepts have been submitted by the author."
"This paper is devoted to the mathematical and philosophical development of control laws which form the foundation of a new approach to the control of aircraft in terrain-following and formation-flight modes of operation. The somewhat similar problems of terrain-following and formation flight are attacked thru the solution of the well known Euler-Poisson equation for an applicable definition of an optimal integral error criterion. The approach is compared to past and present methods of control law formulation to perform the tasks of terre. in-following and formation-flight."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"The William J. Morlock award is given every two years in recognition of outstanding contributions to the field of biomedical engineering. The first award was presented to Britton Chance in 1961; the award for 1965 has been made to Edward F. MacNichol, Jr. The citation is given"
"Methods of calculating the characteristic transmission parameters of arterial segments, which are very short compared to the wavelength, are presented. If the reflection coefficient is known (e.g., as with complete occlusion) two simultaneous measurements of pressure or flow suffice (Method I). If this is not known, as is generally the case, three measurements must be made (Method II). In either case, provided great attention is paid to the static and dynamic calibrations of the instruments, the results obtained are wholly reasonable and allow an estimation of vessel distensibility, and also a closer examination of the usefulness of various transmission-line hypotheses."
"Perimetry is a method of clinical investigation of wide application in the fields of Ophthalmology, Neurology, Neurosurgery, and Internal Medicine. For more than half a century, alterations in the visual field have provided diagnostic clues concerning the site, stability, and nature of various ocular and intracranial lesions. Although the value of Perimetry has long been recognized, its application has often been limited for a number of reasons. Conventional perimetry is basically a time-consuming subjective test, which demands a verbal response from the patient and, hence, cannot be administered to young children, the seriously ill, or comatose patients where the information would often be of the most immediate significance; as, for example, in locating the side of an intracranial hemorrhage. To circumvent these limitations of conventional perimetry, a test has been devised for mapping visual field defects on an objective and automatic basis. Electroperimetry is based on the principle of photically evoking very small focal responses from selected parts of the retina by means of flickering a set of spatially distributed Xenon light sources encompassing a normal visual field. Conduction or nonconduction of each of the evoked focal retinal signals, which are ``buried in brain noise,'' to the visual cortex is determind by real-time digital computer analysis of data recorded at the occiput via scalp electrodes. The computer instructs a recorder unit to display the visual field patterns."
"A spike separation technique which combines data processing methods with extracellular probing techniques to allow simultaneous observation of multiple neural events is presented. A preparation, the locust ventral cord, allows spike separation. Experimental results and simulation indicate the usefulness of the method for this preparation. A feature of the data processing method allows the experimenter to direct the machine classification by an initial classification. Subsequently, the machine returns an indication of the quality of classification, allowing a reclassification or termination."
"The effect of radio-frequency electric fields on various biologic materials was examined. Particularly, the effects on alcohol dehydrogenase and DNA were carefully investigated. To avoid the effects of heating, a pulsed electric field was used, and samples were also rigorously cooled. The activity of alcohol dehydrogenase and the structure of DNA were not altered, however, even by the prolonged irradiation at high-field intensity between 1 and about 60 Mc/s."
"In order to assess the magnitude of error in the estimation of cardiac output from dye dilution curves due solely to area calculations, an IBM 7040 Computer was directed to perform the calculations following various programs for determining the downslope and locating the point of recirculation. Comparison was made between manually and machine calculated values in subjects of various age groups and under various physiological conditions. According to the analysis by the computer, differences-between values from two dilution curves must exceed 8 percent if the 95 percent confidence limit is to apply to the difference between them."
"This paper presents an evaluation of autocorrelation techniques for the detection of fetal electrocardiogram signals from abdominal recordings. Raw signals are digitized, then processed and analyzed by a digital computer. The effect of elimination of the maternal signal and of fluctuations in the fetal period is demonstrated. Correlation parameters such as length of signal and sampling rate are investigated."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"Central venous pressure is measured in critically ill patients. The venous pressure is transmitted to a strain gauge transducer through a catheter inserted into the right atrium or superior vena cava. Through a signal conditioning technique using a low-pass filter with a cutoff at 0.8 c/s, the pulsatile variations related to heart action that are superimposed on the low-frequency respiratory changes are removed. The output of the respirometer is sampled every five minutes by art IBM 1710 control system computer and printed on an output typewriter, together with a number of variables, in a comprehensive patient monitoring system."
"This study deals with the dynamics of respiratory gas carbon dioxide concentration are three, ten, twenty, and thirty to forty-five minutes and two hours; in oxygen concentration, three, ten, twenty, and thirty minutes and one and four hours; and in respiratory quotient, one, five, ten, and fifteen minutes and two to four hours. exchange in resting man. Spectral analyses are performed on time series representing four-hour continuous records of ventilation, carbon dioxide release, oxygen takeup, end tidal carbon dioxide concentration, end tidal oxygen concentration, and respiratory quotient. Results imply that the temporal behavior of each of these six variables can be characterized by a superposition of a finite set of self-sustained almost periodic oscillations with periods in the range from one minute to four hours and time dependent stochastic variation. In ventilation, carbon dioxide release, and oxygen takeup, individual components have amplitudes of between five and ten percent of mean values and nominal periods of one, four, ten, and twenty minutes and one and two to four hours. Components in oxygen concentration, carbon dioxide concentration, and respiratory quotient have amplitudes of between two and four percent of mean values."
"This work was undertaken to obtain a description of a portion (the otolith organs) of the human vestibular system. The vestibular system is fairly inaccessible; thus, measurement by direct observation is difficult. Previous research has shown that eyeball counterroll is one external manifestation of the vestibular system response. In this work, therefore, an indirect measurement of the human vestibular system response was obtained through the measurement of eyeball counterroll. Human subjects were rotated about an axis through their line of sight at angular velocities varying from 0-20r/min. The right eye was photographed and the angle of eyeball counterroll was determined by an optical correlation process. A mathematical expression for input-output characteristics for rotation inputs was formulated using Fourier curve fitting techniques. This description indicates that subjects with normal vestibular function demonstrate an eyeball counterroll which is a function of angular velocity and position with respect to the vertical. Subjects with known vestibular defects demonstrate a small counterroll."
"Using a laser beam, spot perforations have been made in the vinyl lacquer insulation of tungsten microelectrodes. To develop the method, the effect of the diffraction of the laser beam on the diameter of the burning point and of the geometric and diffractive conditions in the focusing of the beam have been examined, taking into account the small diameter of the electrode (about 10-15 μm) and the thinness of the insulating layer. Using the burning method described here, it has been possible to decrease the effective divergence angle of the laser beam so that the diameters of the holes which are formed on the electrode are mostly 2 μm or less. The burning point of the laser beam can be localized with the developed optical method to a desired point on the electrode. The perforation has been performed in saline immersion-liquid to protect the objective and to test immediately formed holes electrolytically. The burning apparatus and method have been explained."
"An approximate theoretical analysis is presented for determining the relative heating in a two layer fat-muscle medium due to a dielectric loaded dipole-corner reflector applicator in direct contact with the finite fat layer. The results indicate that convenient applicator sizes, equivalent to those now used at 2450 Mc/s, operating at a frequency in the neighborhood of 750 Mc/s provide the maximum ratio of relative heat per unit volume in the muscle as compared to that in the fat. Experimental data taken with the aid of an electrical model of the fat-muscle layers shows reasonable agreement with the results of the approximate analysis."
"This paper presents a method for determining the potentials over the surface of a three-dimensional volume due to internal current sources. The volume may be inhomogeneous and irregularly shaped. The method for determining the potentials uses N simultaneous equations which when solved produce the potentials at N different surface points. The N simultaneous equations are solved by an iterative technique on an IBM computer."
"A fluorometer is described which records the difference in intensity of the light emitted by a fluorescing sample (the biological specimen) and by a reference material. Stabilization of the instrument was achieved by feedback to maintain constant signal level from the reference source in the presence of severe changes in the intensity of the excitation light. Illumination and comparison of the two fluorescent intensities occurs at half the frequency of the ac driving the mercury arc lamp. The necessity for this feature strongly implies that mutually independent fluctuations occur between the intensities of the two arc-lamp flashes for each ac cycle."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"The use of an external radio-frequency (RF) electromagnetic field to produce thermocoagulative lesions in neural tissue is presented. This technique, which originally was evaluated on animals and then extended to man, shows great promise as a new neurosurgical tool. It is a means by which neurological disease and intractable pain may be treated in a safe and simple manner. Heating is produced by the action of the RF-induction field on surgically implanted electroseeds having no external connection. The implantation is a simple procedure usually performed under local anesthesia. Instrumentation is discussed, as well as the problems encountered in coil and electroseed design. Experimental findings and theoretical determinations of heat production are discussed and compared. Present limitations and ideas for future work are also considered."
"The purpose of this article is to give a short mathematical introduction to the analysis of EEG signals by means of frequency-selective filters. Besides the resonant frequency, three characteristics of practical filters turn out to be of primary importance. These characteristics are: 1) the time selectivity (width of the window function), indicating the duration of the part of the signal under investigation; 2) the frequency selectivity as bandwidth of the filter; 3) the efficiency, i.e., the ratio of the standard deviation of the filter output to the mean output, in case random noise is fed into the filter."
"An approach to the quantitative analysis of average evoked potential data is presented. An average evoked potential is assumed to be a sample from a multivariate normal distribution. Using this assumption, multivariate statistical techniques can be applied to test hypotheses about the similarity or difference of evoked potentials obtained under different conditions."
"The random fluctuations of human pupillary area provide an interesting example of a stochastic process in a biological system. Statistical theory and system analysis have guided the authors in performing experiments which reveal important properties involved in the random process."
"A telemetering system using an elongation sensor in conjunction with an implantable transmitter is described. The transmitter can be turned on and turned off by use of a pulsed radio-frequency source and has a useful life in excess of two months. The sensor is a newly developed device capable of giving a usable signal when elongated by as little as 0.05 mm. It is fabricated from commonly available material and can be constructed by any reasonably skilled technician."
"The purpose of this short conlmunlication is to describe a simple relatively inexpensive technique for the on-line display of single-unit neurophysiological data. The dot display is a compact method of viewing single-unit activity in response to repeated stimulus presentations. With a quick scan, one can answer such questions as: Does the unit respond? Is the response stable or is it changing? What is the temporal pattern of response?"
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"Korotkoff sounds were recorded and spectrally analyzed for five adult males at rest, during exercise, and immediately after exercise. The spectrum representing the average over the five subjects was calculated for each of the four Korotkoff sound phases under each condition. The average spectra thus obtained are presented so as to provide a comparison between the different phases and exercise conditions. The results provide a quantitative picture of the criteria by which the various phases and endpoints are distinguished. They should be useful in the design of filters for indirect blood pressure monitoring equipment."
"The representation of the heart rate and electrocardiogram (ECG) of an unborn child during gestation and delivery is a detection problem; from signals with very small SNR, information about foetal heart can be extracted. The problem can be narrowed down to the determination of the moment in time between the maternal ECG and interference, in which a foetal R-wave appears. By means of an on-line digital method, where advantage is taken of the almost periodic character of the foetal ECG against the random interference, the certainty about the appearance of a foetal R-wave is statistically enlarged. It is thus possible to determine the foetal heart rate as well as the ECG (both abdominal and intra-uterine) with greater accuracy."
"The effects of increasing and decreasing peripheral resistance on the relationship between aortic pressure and left heart output were investigated in 41 experiments in the dog. The data were analyzed in terms of the slope of the aortic pressure-cardiac output graphs. The results indicate a finite variable internal resistance for the left ventricle. In general it acts as a low resistance generator (constant pressure source) for situations of low peripheral resistance and as a higher resistance generator for situations of high peripheral resistance, although its constant pressure attributes were much more consistent and pronounced than its constant flow characteristics."
"In order to clamp the voltage, to correct for solution resistance, and to record the short-circuit current (SCC) automatically in inexcitable biological membranes, three independent units are usually needed: a voltage control unit, a subtracting amplifier, and a recorder. A circuit has been devised in such a manner that one servo recorder performs these three functions. It consists of a constant current supply with a network including a ten-turn potentiometer (10-T-P) which controls and makes the amount of current delivered to the membrane linear to the position of the 10-T-P slide arm."
"A simple time-division multiplexing system composed largely of commercially available units frequently found in biomedical laboratories is described. It can be used either with the intermediary of magnetic tape recorders or directly, for transmission of two or three channels of information over a single communications link. Possible selection of operating parameters is extremely wide, permitting optimization of channel capacities for particular signals such as electroencephalograms, electrocardiograms, electro-oculograms, tremograms, etc."
"Oximeters, photoelectric instruments for the rapid estimation of blood oxygen saturation, are based on the principles of bichromatic photometry. The need for relative simplicity in design and operation of these instruments, particularly of ear oximeters, requires that assumptions be made which are only partially met in practice. The present paper is concerned with an analysis of errors arising from these assumptions. Suggestions to improve the accuracy of the measurement are presented."
"The authors of the above-named paper, which appeared on pp. 57-64 of the April, 1966, issue of these Transactions, have provided a corrected version Figure 2."
"This short communication has been written in order to call the attention of the bio-medical engineering community to ultrafiltration as a promising but littleexplored method for artificially removing wastes from the blood. Artificial kidnevs in use today are dialyzers. They depend largely upon diffusion for the elimination of waste substances. In contrast, in the human kidney, wastes are filtered from the blood with the aid of a hydrostatic pressure differential. Proper use of ultrafiltration in the artificial kidney should make it possible to reduce treatment time on the machine, the amount of filter material needed, the amount of priming blood, and, consequently, the cost of the treatment."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"The following author listings include title of paper, page number, and month."
"The following author listings include title of paper, page number, and month."
"Presents the cover from the proceedings of this conference."
"Presents the table of contents for the proceedings."
"Presents the introductory welcome message from the conference proceedings. May include the conference officers' congratulations to all involved with the conference event and publication of the proceedings record."
"Three problems in language processing are the recognition of strings that are sentences of a given language, the parsing of sentences according to a given grammar, and the syntax-directed translation of sentences in one language to those in another. Limiting our attention to context-free languages, we consider first the simplest of these problems--recognition. A procedure is given whereby for an arbitrary string of length n and a specification of a context-free grammar, the string is recognized as generated by that grammar or not; the time, i.e. number of steps, required by this algorithm is proportional to n3. For a linear or metalinear grammar, this procedure is simplified to yield recognition in time Kn2. The algorithm for recognition is then extended to procedures for parsing and syntax-directed translation."
"A transduction is a mapping from one set of sequences to another. A syntax directed transduction is a particular type of transduction which is defined on the grammar of a context free language and which is meant to be a model of part of the translation process used in many compilers. The transduction is considered from an automata theory viewpoint as specifying the input-output relation of a machine. There is a close relationship between a subclass of these transductions, the simple syntax directed transductions, and push-down machines. This relationship is investigated in detail and conditions for such transductions to be performed on push-down machines are obtained. In addition, some time bounds for transductions on Turing machines are derived."
"The s-languages are those languages recognized by a particular restricted form of deterministic pushdown automaton, called an s-machine. They are uniquely characterized by that subset of the standard-form grammars in which each rule has the form Z → aY1...Yn, n≥0, and for which the pairs (Z, a) are distinct among the rules. It is shown that the s-languages have the prefix property, and that they include the regular sets with end-markers. Finally, their closure properties and decision problems are examined, and it is found that their equivalence problem is solvable. Since the solvability of the equivalence problem is not known for arbitrary deterministic languages, the s-languages are the most general class of languages for which this problem has been shown to be solvable."
"An n-dimensional iterative array of finitestate machines (abbreviated nD) is a special type of real-time tape acceptor. The principal results are as follows: 1. nD's have equivalent forms With simplified stencils and length k encodings of the input alphabet. 2. The set of palindromes and the set of tapes of the form ττ are accepted by 1D's. 3. The sets of tapes accepted by nD's are a Boolean algebra. 4. The sets of tapes accepted by nD's are not closed under multiplication or reflection. 5. There exists a simple phrase-structure language not accepted by any nD in any dimension n. 6. The computing power of the class of nD's is strictly less than the computing power of the class of (n+1)D's."
"Lower bounds on the capacity and on the product of capacity and computation time are obtained for machines which recognize the set of squares. The bound on capacity is approached to within a factor of four by a specific machine which carries out a test based on the fact that every non-square is a quadratic non-residue of some rational prime. A machine which carries out a test based on the standard root-extraction algorithm is substantially less efficient in this respect. For neither machine is the bound on the capacity-time product closely approached."
"A regular event W is a star event iff there exists another event V such that W = V*. In that case, V is called a root of W. It is shown that every regular event has a unique minimum root, which is contained in every other root of W. An algorithm for finding the minimum root is presented, and the root is shown to be regular. The results have applications to languages, codes, canonical forms for regular expressions, simplification of expressions, decomposition of sequential machines, and semigroup theory."
"A transformation graph is a finite directed graph with exactly one edge issuing from each vertex. A graph is subdirectly decomposed into two factor graphs, if it is isomorphic to a subgraph of their direct (Cartesian) product. The decomposition is A-optimal, if the maximal order (i.e., number of vertices) of the factor graphs is minimal. It is B-optimal, if the sum of the orders is minimal. This paper describes techniques for obtaining optimal decompositions of a given connected transformation graph. To achieve this objective, computationally convenient expressions are introduced for the isomorphism classes of transition graphs, i.e., finite, directed graphs with at most one edge issuing from each vertex. Then, formulas are derived for computing the expression of the direct (Cartesian) product of given transition graphs. The decomposition techniques are based on these expressions and formulas. The results obtained are directly applicable to the synthesis of autonomous sequential networks by means of parallel-connected smaller networks."
"The problem of decomposing a finite automaton has been investigated by many authors [7,8,9,16]. However, their results were based on the question of decomposing an automaton into series and parallel connections of automata. The present work is an extension to the problem of generalized decomposition where two-way interconnections between automata are permitted. Our decomposition does not presuppose the logical design of the circuit of an automaton. With the new technology, the problem of economical realization no longer lies in the actual complexity of the logical design in each building block. Aside from a given upper limit, the complexity is not reflected in the cost. Subject to the restraint of the given limit on each block, the main object is to minimize the number of interconnections between blocks of a generalized decomposition of an automaton."
"A systematic method for the combined row-column reduction of incompletely specified flow tables is presented. A generalized cover of a flow table is defined in terms of compatibility classes of rows and columns. The problem of finding a minimal generalized cover is solved by an integer-restricted linear program, or, equivalently, by a tabular method."
"Two general types of standard minimum transition time secondary assignments for arbitrary r-row flow tables are derived. One class requires 1/2 no(no + 1) secondary variables, no = [log2 r], and the second, a comparable number but less than 1/2 no(no + 1). These standard assignments thus provide a significantly better lower bound for any flow table than other standard assignments which require 2no-1 secondary variables. The derivation of the assignments is based upon adding auxiliary u-variables to a basic set of no y-variables; the u-variables are modulo two sums over various subsets of the y-variables."
"A method is presented for realizing any flow table that does not contain essential hazards with a circuit requiring no delay elements for proper operation. The procedure generally requires considerably fewer state-variables than did an earlier technique for achieving the same result. It is based on a modification of a method by Tracey for constructing single-transition-time row assignments."
"Some further results on the synthesis of two or more sequential machines which are fed from the same input signal source are presented. It is shown that a minimal-state machine realization can always be obtained in a completely systematic way, such that the state-variable and output variable dependencies are reduced simultaneously. For two specified reduced machines, M1 and M2, with specified initial states, we find a reduced composite machine which contains both M1 and M2. The composite machine is then examined in order to determine the largest nontrivial common machine factor from which the specified outputs of of the two machines Z1 and Z2 can be generated. The techniques are applicable to the problem of realizing a machine having two or more binary output channels from the corresponding regular expressions."
"The application of threshold logic to the design of sequential machines is the subject of this paper. A single layer of threshold logic units in the combinational portion of a sequential machine is used as the general model to be studied, and investigations have been made in the areas of autonomous machines, counters, sequence generators, and general input-output machines. This model was chosen for study because it offers the combined advantages of fewer components because of the use of threshold logic, along with very high-speed operation resulting from the use of only a single layer of logic. In some instances, namely for asynchronous machines, the only delay need be the natural delay of the single layer of threshold elements. Two state-assignment procedures are given for the synthesis of counters, both based on manipulations of C-matrices. The first results in counters having the minimum number of state variables; the second in race-free counters for which only one state variable changes per change of state. The modification of a given code to make it realizable with the chosen network is discussed and applied to the problem of outputs and sequence generators. Machines having inputs are considered and shown to present special problems; some of the difficulties involved are isolated. It is demonstrated that sometimes it is necessary to expand the state diagram by a state-splitting technique before the machine is realizable with the threshold network."
"The problem of deciding whether or not an arbitrary N-variable switching function is realizable with a single threshold element device is known to be convertible to the global minimization of a functional derivable from the given switching function. This functional is shown to consist of a structure of intersecting hyperplanes each of which is related to some threshold function. It is further shown that the functional is a convex function of its arguments so that test synthesis by minimization is a valid procedure. Two such computer-implemented minimization techniques are discussed. Finally, it is shown that this approach cannot be directly extended to threshold element network synthesis, since there exists no convex functional with a global extremum at a network realization."
"The minimal number of terms required for representing any switching function as a modulo-2 sums of products is investigated, and algorithm for obtaining economical realizations is described. The main result is the following: Every symmetric function of 2m+1 variables has a modulo-2 sum of products realization with at most 3m terms, but there are functions of n variables which require at least 2n/n long23 terms, for sufficiently large n."
"A procedure is presented for encoding the states of a control counter in such a way as to make each output or its complement decodable as a single AND-gate, where the inputs to the AND-gates are state variables or their complements. It is assumed that the number of state variables used is a design choice. In fact, it may well be advantageous to assign more than the minimum required number of variables, especially in problems where the number of outputs is large."
"It is generally recognized that asynchronous operation of logic networks offers specific advantages over synchronous operation controlled by a central clock when the network is subject to large or widely varying inter-module propagation delays. In this paper we characterize several previously described techniques for achieving asynchronous operation by a single model. Essential to the model is the bi-directional exchange of control information to control a one-directional data flow. A second important concept is that of detecting the completion of logical operations. The model readily generalizes to permit the control of modules that are sequential machines of arbitrary complexity. As a vehicle to demonstrate several characteristics of asynchronous networks, the design of a modular, asynchronous multiplier is described. One of its characteristics, termed \"self-steering,\" entails the use of special symbols on the data paths to control dynamic reconfiguration of the network. Another characteristic, \"flow mode\" operation, is exemplified by the apparent flow of activity through the network. At, any given time, portions of several independent multiplication processes can be flowing through different portions of the network."
"This report describes the techniques used to obtain two three-variable universal logic blocks from NAND circuits. The emphasis for one of these ULB's is on minimizing NAND blocks; for the other ULB, it is on minimizing input pins. The techniques used for the three variable ULB realization are extended to handle realization of a four-variable ULB. Possible compromises to be made in the ULB approach to logic design, and a proposed system application of the ULB, are also discussed."
"Recent studies have shown that many noise processes in sequential networks can be described as either a multinomial process, a Markov process, or a linearly-dependent process. This paper extends the results of those studies to show how the statistics of any sequence selected from processes of this type can be calculated. Through the use of z-transform techniques, it is shown that the characteristic roots of the characterization matrix which describe the process are useful in categorizing the statistical properties of the process. It is also shown that the logical combination of two or more linearly-dependent sequences is another linearly-dependent sequence. The relationship between the characterization matrices of the input sequences to a sequential machine, and the characterization matrix of the output process is derived."
"With each state of probabilistic finite automaton, we may associate a function p(u|v), which tells us the probability that, if we apply the input sequence v to the machine started in the state, we should observe output sequence u. We give a necessary and sufficient condition that a function p(u|v) be realizable as such an inputoutput function. We show that a result of Heller on stochastic processes derived from Markov chains is a special case of our condition."
"The class of total automata is characterized. Relationships between the structure of the automorphism group G(A) of a finite automaton A and G(A/H), where A/H is a quotient [9] of A, are exhibited. It is shown that the poset PA of isomorphism classes of quotients of A is an antihomomorphic, image of the poset PG(A) of conjugacy classes of subgroups of G(A). Some results are obtained about natural series of quotient automata. Applications to decomposition theory, in particular to the problem of factoring out identical parallel front components, are given. A generalization of the major parts of the theory to infinite strongly connected monadic algebras is obtained."
"In this paper we shall investigate the automorphism group G(A/H) of the reduced automaton A/H where A = (S, I, M) is a finite strongly connected automaton and H is a subgroup of the automorphism group G(A) of the automaton A. This problem and other related topics have been dealt with recently by G. P. Weeg, A. C. Fleck, and B. Barnes.1,2,3,4,5 However, the particular problem to give an isomorphic representation of G(A/H) for arbitrary A and H still remained open. Our present purpose is to fill this gap."
"During the past ten years, digital computers have been extensively used throughout the whole of the electrical supply industry. Their many and widespread applications range, in the technical field, from detailed design of new plant to comprehensive analysis of complete future networks, and, in the commercial field, from stock and production control in the factory to the day-to-day efficient operating of existing networks."
"The essential requirements for an automatic railway system are that all trains shall be capable of running without the direct intervention of a driver, and that the movements of all trains shall be determined by a central traffic controller. Instructions to the trains are sent either to the driver, who exercises a supervisory function, or direct to the locomotive control mechanism."
"The 8th June 1966 is the centenary of the filing by Georges Leclanché of the first patent for his 'pile électrique'. From small laboratory-scale beginnings, the manufacture of dry batteries has grown into a vast international industry with an annual value of hundreds of millions of pounds."
"Although the phenomenon of magnetostriction has been known in some form or other for a long time, only in the last few years has it attained theoretical importance, on the ground of its intimate connection with magnetic theory, and some practical importance through applications in delay lines and in ultrasonic cleaning, drilling, welding, emulsifying and atomising."
"An analogy between engineering and human management shows that it should be possible to establish a science of human behaviour and from it develop a technology that would be of value in the handling of men."
"As electricity is transmitted at higher and higher voltages, so greater and greater demands are made on the performance of switchgear."
"Improvements in the reliability of component parts have demanded improvements in the reliability of connections and interconnections. Moreover, a reassessment ofv connection methods has been necessary in order to make best use of the space-saving facilities offered by microelectronics."
"The term 'pumped storage' gives no clue to the uninitiated that such a project is basically a hydroelectric scheme. This may explain why pumped storage does not seem to arouse the same strong feelings as are customarily reserved for straight hydroelectric schemes. Nevertheless, pumped storage is a form of hydroelectric development that, by avoiding total dependence on nature, is characterised by the firmness of its output."
"In the nature of things, the change from theoretical research to practical implementation of automatic-landing techniques has been reflected in a broadening of responsibility, and what was initially the concern of a single agency (the Blind Landing Experimental Unit of the RAE) has now become a considerable co-operative enterprise, in which industry, the airlines, the Air Registration Board, various Ministry of Aviation branches and the RAE all play a part. In such a situation, all participants make important contributions, but this account has been limited to those areas in which the RAE has been particularly active."
"This account, by a pioneer in the field, of the principles and development of holography raises the questions of how are we to profit from holographic techniques, and what are we to learn from the mathematical principles embodied therein?"
"The recent development of new processes of high-pressure gasification, and the increasing availability of natural gas at high pressure, have given gas-distribution engineers the opportunity to design and construct supergrid systems for the transmission of large quantities of gas over considerable distances, without the need for expensive compression processes. In order to take full advantage of such a distribution system, unified control from a central point is essential."
"In the autumn of 1965, the Association of Polish Electrical Engineers (Stowarzyszenie Elektrykow Polskich) invited the IEE to provide the papers, on the general topic of electricity generation, transmission and distribution, for a three-day conference to be held in Warsaw. On the 20th March 1966, a party of 13 engineers, several of whom were accompanied by their wives, travelled to Warsaw under the leadership of D.T. Hollingsworth, chairman of the IEE Power Division, to present a total of 11 papers before the Polish Association."
"Currently, in the United States, engineering management is a popular subsidiary study area for electrical and electronics Ph.D. candidates. Many American engineering schools encourage their professors to be active consultants in industry. This dual role facilitates an integration of the formal engineering-management course work with the practical vacation training in industry."
"The possible applications for real-time control of systems are varied. Some already have been or are being attempted. A large number still remain, waiting perhaps for economic or technical justification, or even for the realisation that a computer system could be organised to produce results superior to those produced by the traditional methods."
"In 1842, Lady Lovelace said of Babbage's early mechanical calculating machine: 'It has no pretensions whatever to originate anything'. These comments still apply, and the efficiency of a present-day computer still depends on the skill of the individual providing the guidance. The computer should be considered as a useful servant, but the engineer must exercise the final judgment."
"Books published before 1500 are now extremely rare, so that the discovery in the IEE library of one of the earliest printed books in existence is an event of some importance. Here the Librarian of the IEE describes this find."
"Until the ideal of 100% component reliability is attained, the elementary concepts of reliability prediction described in this article should, says the author, be given more attention in the education of professional engineers."
"The communication engineer is fortunate, in that the Earth possesses an ionosphere, but it is unfortunate that the ionosphere is not as perfect as it might be. In this summary of his IEE presidential address, J.A. RateIiffe discusses the ionosphere and its significance to engineers."
"One aspect of the televising of the 1966 World Cup football matches that attracted a good deal of interest was the ease and speed with which slow-motion recordings of the highlights were presented, sometimes only seconds after the event. This article describes how the complex equipment that achieved these results was developed and built in a relatively short period."
"Well endowed with natural resources, British Columbia is understandably the site of intensive hydroelectric-power undertakings. It might even be argued that the tremendous development of the province owes more to Michael Faraday than to the colourful pioneers of the West."
"Although there is apparently an overwhelming amount of evidence for the postulate of the invariance of the velocity of light, it is suggested that this evidence is equivocal, and a ballistic theory of light is shown to be capable of explaining many results of modern physics."
"It is one of the functions of the science and art of measurement to devise and apply methods of reliably carrying out the counting processes, and of defining and maintaining the magnitudes of the units counted. Some units, like the metre and the kilogramme, appear at first sight to be easy to maintain, as they can be stored on stable material standards. Derived units like velocity, pressure, or the electrical units are in general much more difficult to store, and in many cases can only be transitorily realised by the effect which they produce."
"The Weston cell was adopted as the ultimate standard of e.m.f. in 1911, but it was not until after the Second World War, and the increasing demand for reliable and more accurate standards in automation and instrumentation, that its importance became realised on a commercial scale. Today, many tens of thousands of these cells are required each year."
"In its stability, accuracy, sensitivity to perturbations and mechanical robustness, the Weston cell is a good example of how a standard should not behave. However, with suitable temperature control and precautions against parasitic e.m.f.s, the Weston cell, for all its disadvantages, shows the best long-term stability, and can make a reliable house standard of e.m.f."
"The success or failure of many current Earth-satellite and space-exploration programmes is highly dependent on the performance of precision Zener diodes. Military and industrial users of these subminiature semiconductor devices are inheriting the benefits of the necessary applied technology."
"All too often, a design is obsolescent long before it leaves the drawing board, or it is doomed to undergo facelifts and 'plastic surgery' which vainly attempt to transform an abomination into some semblance of a work of art. A radically new approach to this problem involves new ideas and techniques in education and training, awakening a designer's consciousness of his own thought processes."
"Unlike the original transistor, which is current operated, the metal-oxide-semiconductor transistor is voltage operated, and its operating characteristics are so similar to those of the thermionic valve that well established circuit-design techniques applicable to the valve can be applied to the design of circuits using the m.o.s.t. At the same time, the familiar inherent advantages of solid-state electronic devices are apparent. Its valve-like features also make it very acceptable to those engineers who were taught electronics based on the thermionic valve as the active element."
"In many countries, ripple control constitutes an almost standard component of the equipment of the distribution networks; operational experience is very good, and growing numbers of applications are being introduced. It would appear desirable that Britain should study the subject more closely in order to benefit from the advantages that are likely to accrue from its adoption."
"On the 4th November 1965, a joint meeting of the IEE and the IERE was held at Savoy Place to discuss the selection of topics for research in electrical and electronic engineering. Sir Gordon Radley, whose article on the purpose of this meeting was published in the September 1965 E & P, p. 316, was in the chair."
"Many of the difficulties of understanding fundamental electromagnetism arise out of the current-flux approach usually adopted by teachers. The author argues the case for an alternative potential-time approach."
"For permanent electrical installations, well-established principles exist for the initial design and the planning of lighting, heating and power-supply requirements; but these aspects are often neglected for electrical supplies for construction work. The result can be an inadequate initial supply and a dangerous improvisation at various stages as building proceeds. This article describes a unified system of equipment developed at the UK Building Research Station for use on sites."
"Elizabeth the second by the Grace of God of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland and of Our other Realms and Territories Queen, Head of the Commonwealth, Defender of the Faith"
"A conference on the design and construction of large steerable aerials for satellite communication, radioastronomy and radar was held at Savoy Place on the 6th-8th June 1966. It was sponsored by the IEE Electronics Division, the IERE, the Institution of Mechanical Engineers, the Institution of Structural Engineers and the UK & Eire Section of the IEEE."
"This article is a shortened version of the 1st Appleton Lecture ('Appleton's contribution to radio science'), given by the author at Savoy Place on the 2nd December 1965."
"In 1964, the author's firm was asked by the South of Scotland Electricity Board to make a feasibility study into a 3000-MW station which the Board proposed to build at Irvine, on the south-west coast of Scotland. The study was to indicate whether it would be more economic to burn oil or coal and the size of generating unit to be installed, together with the steam cycle recommended."
"Laser light has a high degree of spatial coherence and can therefore be beamed sharply with little divergence over large distances. It is also coherent in time in much the same way as an r.f. oscillation. In these two respects it differs from ordinary light, which has no coherence either in space or in time and, in the language of the radio engineer, is broadband noise at optical frequencies."
"Cable faults will always be with us, and the present excavation costs and traffic congestion render it more important than ever to minimise the work done in finding and clearing the troubles. In the future, it seems probable that pulse-reflection tests with an oscilloscope will become of increasing importance for fault location, but the present methods described here will no doubt remain in use for some years to come."
"Circles are often used to represent elementary particles, but are we always conscious of the ambiguity implied by using the symbol accepted for a solid sphere also as that for the indeterminate boundary of an electron or nucleon?"
"Recent developments in distribution-system operation and maintenance are making a major contribution towards increased reliability of supply. In this article, the main emphasis is on distribution-system control, with particular reference to developments planned by the North Eastern Electricity Board. The article is based on the chairman's address to the North-Eastern Centre, delivered at Newcastle upon Tyne on the 11th October 1965."
"In 1937, Prof. Meyer gave a series of five lectures on electroacoustics at Savoy Place. 29 years later, he reports that no radically new methods have been evolved, but describes some recent experiments and developments with which he has been associated at the University of Gottingen."
"The necessity for students to know more about the evolving techniques of production is well known in British industry, and its challenge must be met in education. Our standard of living is tied to our ability to export. The neglect of this subject is a luxury we cannot afford."
"Although most electrical engineers are in the fortunate position of having access to a good library specialising in the literature of electrical science and technology, few of them make the best use of the available facilities. It is not difficult to master the rudiments of how to use a library, and the benefit to be gained from doing so amply justifies the effort."
"The demand for telephone circuits across the Atlantic increases at the rate of about 100 channels per year. Early Bird, by providing capacity for up to 240 more channels, will ease the traffic pressure on the existing submarine cables and may be the first stage in developing a global satellite system."
"Submerged-arc, gas-shielded-arc and electroslag processes are now replacing manual welding in all industries, and are not by any means confined to repetition and mass-production work. This has necessitated design changes and changes in manufacturing procedures to suit the new techniques, and manufacturers are moving into a machine age in welding."
"The author, who is a principal lecturer at a British college of technology, recently spent ten weeks in the United States under the auspices of the English-Speaking Union and visited 22 educational establishments. He returned with some vital questions for British education and industry."
"Following the rapid progress made with the development of electronic techniques during the Second World War, it became apparent that they offered considerable advantages in telephone switching, such as freedom from mechanical wear, small physical size and weight, and high operating speeds. These manifest advantages, coupled with a desire to improve reliability and performance, to reduce maintenance and operating costs, to reduce accommodation requirements and to provide a faster service, led to extensive research and development programmes in many countries."
"The 21st meeting of the Conference Internationale des Grands Reseaux Electriques was held at the Fondation Berthelot, Paris, on the 8th-18th June 1966."
"Details of the construction and mode of operation of the scanning electron microscope, the scanning electron diffractometer and the mirror electron microscope have recently been published elsewhere; in this article, the emphasis is on their uses and advantages."
"The powerful new tools of cybernetics, correlation theory, Fourier theory etc. might usefully be applied to some of the older sciences."
"After a lengthy period in which advances in electrostatic technology were made without recourse to the underlying theory, attention is again being focused on the fundamental processes. This change has been brought about largely by work now going on in the United States in connection with space-vehicle propulsion."
"Over the past 15 years, the fluorescent lamp has been improved by up to 50% in efficiency and up to 250% in life. Also important, but not so well known, have been the improvements in versatility, range of sizes and range of colours."
"Why railways? Why electric railways? Why 50-c/s single phase? Why automation? These are the questions which must be answered before we can justify applying resources to railway electric-traction research."
"The recently developed laser rangefinder is a truly portable instrument whose accuracy on readings of up to 10 km is within ±10m."
"An s.i.c. (silicon integrated circuit) is basically a small encapsulated chip of silicon containing a group of interconnected p-n junctions. This article explains how such junctions are produced by epitaxial deposition and by diffusion."
"More than 200 years have passed since Benjamin Franklin first demonstrated that thunderclouds are electrified, but the exact mechanisms by which the charges are generated, separated, and dissipated in lightning flashes are still the cause of much research and argument. Although there has been no shortage of theories, none has withstood the test of time and the accumulation of detailed information concerning the structure and behaviour of thunderstorms as revealed by aircraft, radar and balloon-borne instruments."
"The 12th Graham Clark Lecture of the Institutions of Civil, Mechanical and Electrical Engineers was given on the 24th March 1966 in the lecture theatre of the Institution of Electrical Engineers, Savoy Place, London WC2."
"The magnitude of the contribution that acoustic waves will make to microwave technology is not yet clear. However, the unique characteristics of low-loss electronically variable long delays, and the ability to amplify without transforming to electrical energy, promise that the contribution will be one of increasing importance."
"Theatres differ one from another not only in size but in their form and in the way in which they are used, but there is an essential similarity in all stage-lighting installations. They have to provide illumination as well as lighting for dramatic effect - logic versus artistic expression. All, therefore, require equipment to localise light in various areas of the stage, and all require a centralised dimmer regulator to enable an operator to 'paint the stage' with changes of light."
"A conference on the power applications of controllable semiconductor devices was held at Savoy Place on the 10th-11th November 1965. It was organised by the Power Division of the IEE."
"The need to set up h.f. transmitting and receiving stations outside urban areas is self evident, but the shortage of skilled staff, already an acute problem, would be even more pronounced in remote areas. One solution to this difficulty is to set up remotely controlled and automated stations."
"Electricity for lighting, heating and motive power was suggested at the beginning of the 19th century. The reign of Queen Victoria saw many of these ideas developed into practical applications."
"The Hall effect is finding application over a wide field of electrical engineering. Interest in the engineering application of the Hall effect might well be limited by the difficulty in finding a paper or a book that describes clearly the electrical characteristics of Hall plates. This article describes some of these characteristics, and also gives an account of some of the applications of the Hall plate and the background of the Hall effect."
"The nature of indicating instruments, circuits and human responses is such that frequencies below 15 c/s call for different techniques of measurement, but is anyone interested in making measurements in this region? We find, in fact, at least three fields of research using signals below this frequency."
"On the 22nd February at Savoy Place, a further joint IEE/IERE meeting was held on the selection of topics for research in electrical and electronic engineering. This is an edited version of the discussion. The previous meeting was held on the 4th November 1965, and was reported in the January 1966 E & P (p. 12)."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Provides a listing of current society officers."
"Advertisement."
"Presents recent technologies and trends in the engineering and computer industries."
"Advertisement."
"Reports on news of interest to IEEE members, including upcoming meetings and events, industry news, and recent IEEE member obituaries."
"Advertisement."
"Provides a listing of upcoming events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Advertisement."
"Provides news relating to engineering and computing industry leaders, practitioners and researchers."
"Advertisement."
"Recounts the career and contributions of IEEE members who passed away in 1966."
"Advertisement."
"Presents a biographical entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
"Although it is difficult to describe the nature of clear air turbulence (or CAT), we know its effect-the sudden vibration experienced by an aircraft in flight in a stormfree, cloudfree sky. It is evident that this turbulence is an eddy motion of the air that disrupts its uniform flow, a motion such as that associated with jet streams; however, we do not know exactly how it is generated. Because the effects of CAT can range from mere passenger discomfort to actual loss of an aircraft, it is important to devise some method of warning the pilot of turbulent areas to be avoided. Various indirect and direct detection systems, employing both active and passive techniques, are currently being investigated, but thus far all have exhibited serious limitations on effective performance. One reason for this is the lack of data concerning the phenomenon they are designed to detect."
"This second and concluding article scans over some of the new kinds of human factors problems that have emerged as a result of recent technological advances. The article discusses aspects of these new problems in the following major areas: man-computer interaction (psychological problems related to on-line usage, the need for more \"natural\" interaction languages, graphical communication); man-vehicle control and guidance systems (better models of human controller, novel systems); communications (computers in telephone information services, satellite relays); advanced space systems (\"learning\" and display problems related to incorporation of computers in prelaunch activities). Last, a recent study in human information processing is cited that points up a general problemߞthe need for rational optimal models of human functioning."
"Sensitive coherent detection techniques, identical in principle to the methods applicable in the RF or microwave regions, are being investigated at optical wavelengths. Since we already can reach the natural limit of being able to count individual photons in both the short-wavelength visible and near-ultraviolet regions, there is no possibility for sensitivity improvement in those spectra. However, at increased wavelengths, where the detectors are several orders of magnitude away from being able to count photons, much higher sensitivity can be achieved through the use of coherent detection methods. In optical superheterodyne detection the mixing in the superheterodyne receiver arises because optical detectors measure the intensity rather than the amplitude of the light waves, and thus square-law detection results. Another detection method is based on a truly nonlinear effect, in which the electric field associated with the incident radiation is so strong that it drives the polarization out of the linear region. Parametric amplification of the optical signal then becomes possible."
"Following a brief review of the progress in the communication art that has led to today's high-speed transmission of information, including the evolution of the carrier spectrum, the reasons for the growth of high-speed communication are analyzed. The basic operation of parallel and series data systems is illustrated through the use of typical examples. The West Coast operation of The Wall Street Journal, described here, demonstrates one way in which high-speed transmission techniques can be profitably employed in the publishing field."
"Technological advances in computers and automation over the last 20 years have far outstripped our ability to use them effectively. Profound changes in industry, government, and business will emerge as the new technology unfolds. As an example: the whole concept of a ``big'' operation or company will have to be reshaped in terms of our new ability to organize and operate a system efficiently. To exploit the possibilities of this new technology rationally, broad interties between the academic and practical worlds are indispensable. The academic world contributes a philosophical structure providing vital breadth and flexibility, while the real world offers a simplifying practicality that insures workability and early realization. In the initial stages, planning for the use of the new technology must be done as a joint research and development effort between both worlds. As this joint effort grows, a more complete and integrated structure will undoubtedly evolve. A prototype form of the engineering-economic systems profession is being evolved in a program at Stanford University."
"During the past six years, a class of telecommunication systems designed to provide tracking, telemetry, and command functions at interplanetary, multi-million-kilometer distances has been developed and proved out on flights along heliocentric orbits and into the vicinity of the planets Venus and Mars. These developments are contributing substantially to the exploration of the solar system and, in addition, are one measure of the state of the electronic arts. If the capability continues to increase over the next several years at the same rate, we shall soon be able to transfer large quantities of information to the earth from the surface of Mars."
"The goal of mechanizing certain creative processes in problem solving is attainable, but not in the near future. The problem is to find workable computer procedures for evolving ``appropriate'' representations in given problem-solving situations. The answer may lie in the extension of ideas that were developed for some elementary theory-formation procedures."
"Advertisement."
"Highlights technical articles and features presented in various current IEEE periodicals."
"A list of IEEE publications abstracted in this issue is given. The publications will be available in the near future. Only abstracts of the articles are provided herein."
"Advertisement."
"Translation of several non-English-language journals are sponsored by IEEE, Advance tables of contents of forthcoming translated issues and reviews of selected papers from recently translated issues appear here. Subscription rates and additional information are available from IEEE Subscriber Relations."
"Advertisement."
"Reports on new technologies and applications for their use in the fields of education, government, and industry."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Listing of advertisers represented in this issue."
"Advertising restricted to professional engineering and consulting services."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Provides a listing of current society officers."
"Advertisement."
"Presents recent technologies and trends in the engineering and computer industries."
"Reports on news of interest to IEEE members, including upcoming meetings and events, industry news, and recent IEEE member obituaries."
"Advertisement."
"Provides a listing of upcoming events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Advertisement."
"Provides news relating to engineering and computing industry leaders, practitioners and researchers."
"Recounts the career and contributions of IEEE members who passed away in 1966."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement: Pergamon Press."
"Presents a biographical entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
"Ultrasonics is being used in many areas in solid-state physics. One is Fermi surface mapping of normal metals by the magnetoacoustic technique. The detailed knowledge gleaned is valuable in theoretical calculations of many of the electrical and optical properties of metals. Another area is that of ``hard'' superconductors. Measurements of ultrasonic attenuation in the study of the metallurgical microstructure of high-field superconducting alloys (such as the Nb-Zr alloys) could have technological significance, especially in the field of power transmission. A new ultrasonic tool has been developed to aid investigations-the depletion layer transducer. It has prominent advantages over a conventional quartz piezoelectric transducer, including a higher fundamental frequency and the ability to change the resonant frequency by varying the dc bias level. Along with the new transducer, a new piezoelectric semiconductor amplifier produces substantial amplification of ultrasonic waves in photoconductive CdS by applying a dc electric field in the direction of wave propagation. This feature could find use in acoustic delay line technology."
"Traditionally, European engineering education has, in the main, followed the German pattern-a division of educational emphasis producing two streams of graduates: the craftsman-specialists and the scientist-engineers. Until recently, this philosophy remained monolithic in concept. Today, under the prods of industry, the needs of national research, and the example of the United States, European education is beginning to bridge the wide gap between theory and practice. The European technical school curricula are being broadened to provide a general as well as a practical background and the theoretically oriented university that formerly catered exclusively to the mental elite is giving more weight and time to the laboratory and working more closely with industry. In addition, provision is now made for a student to transfer from one type of school to the other later in his career."
"In filter technology, the synthesis techniques of Cauer and Darlington, among others, have come into wide-spread use. With the swing to higher and higher frequencies, these techniques have enabled circuit designers to obtain high performance with coils of moderate Q in L-C circuits, with quartz resonators of high Q, and with mechanical and ceramic resonators with desirable qualities somewhere between those of L-C components and of quartz."
"This introductory article describes something of the origin, setting, and evolution of human factors engineering as an organized discipline, and provides an overview of some of its major ramifications. It finds that despite the parochial military auspices under which the work began, HFE now encompasses a bewildering diversity of subjects and aims. It traces the development of the man-machine system concept (central to much human factors thinking), discusses the comparative roles of psychology and engineering, and, in the broadest sense, discusses the role of the human factors engineer vis-à-vis the question of man in the man-made environment. In conclusion, it asks whether or not there may be more to the HFE \"name\" problem than meets the eye."
"Several facets of the special theory of relativity are reviewed, commencing with the Lorentz equations and culminating in the force transformation law. The basic equations of electrostatic theory are then formulated, after which a relativistic transformation of Coulomb's law is undertaken, the result being the Lorentz force law. Time-varying electric and magnetic fields are defined as constituent terms of the Lorentz force expression and are then shown to satisfy Maxwell's equations. The development includes derivations of the relativistic transformation laws for sources and fields."
"Advertisement."
"The purpose of this article is to present an introduction to the important new standards publication, ``IEEE Recommended Practice on Units in Published Scientific and Technical Work,'' recently approved by the IEEE Standards Committee. The full text of the document appears at the conclusion of this discussion, which is intentionally kept informal because it is concerned with opinion and judgment as well as with fact."
"Discusses IEEE recommended pracrices for units in scientific and technical publications."
"Advertisement."
"Highlights technical articles and features presented in various current IEEE periodicals."
"Advertisement of available employment opportunities."
"A list of IEEE publications abstracted in this issue is given. The publications will be available in the near future. Only abstracts of the articles are provided herein."
"Advertisement."
"Translation of several non-English-language journals are sponsored by IEEE, Advance tables of contents of forthcoming translated issues and reviews of selected papers from recently translated issues appear here. Subscription rates and additional information are available from IEEE Subscriber Relations."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Reports on new technologies and applications for their use in the fields of education, government, and industry."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Advertising restricted to professional engineering and consulting services."
"Listing of advertisers represented in this issue."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Provides a listing of current society officers."
"Presents recent technologies and trends in the engineering and computer industries."
"Advertisement."
"Provides a listing of upcoming events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Advertisement."
"Provides a listing of upcoming events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Provides news relating to engineering and computing industry leaders, practitioners and researchers."
"Advertisement."
"Recounts the career and contributions of IEEE members who passed away in 1966."
"Presents a biographical entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
"The massive blackout of November 9-10 has triggered some prompt and expeditious action, spearheaded by the Federal Power Commission's list of 19 affirmative recommendations that should be implemented by the utilities to preclude the possibility of a recurrence. These proposals include the need for fully coordinated power pools, more extensive stability studies for the operation of interconnected systems, the need for mixed generation facilities for quicker response to power swings, and a review of the adequacy of existing automated equipment."
"A small number of free carriers, a small cyclotron mass, a very high mobility at superconducting temperatures-these are among the properties that make bismuth, along with its alloys, the subject of intensive research efforts. The ``cleanness'' of these materials, for example, makes them ideal for new kinds of plasma experiments in solids. Results so far could be described as intriguing to the scientist and promising to the engineer."
"Advertisement."
"Basic processes and fundamental technological requirements of controlled thermonuclear fusion have been widely discussed. Briefly, they include: heating an ultrapure, low-density deuterium and tritium plasma to superhigh temperatures; stably containing the extreme temperature plasma by magnetic fields for a duration adequate to fuse the nuclei; diminishing particle losses occurring through diffusion and instabilities to acceptable levels; gaining useful fusion products conveying energy sufficiently in excess of thermal and radiant energy losses; and, finally, converting the energy released to useful electric power. Recent progress has been encouraging. Numerous and diverse plasmas have been produced and improved understanding and experimental confirmation of stable magnetic containment have been obtained. Also, increased plasma density, temperature, and containment times in a few experimental systems have been achieved. However, complex difficulties, such as new types of instabilities, raise formidable barriers to a workable reactor concept."
"The capability of a hypothetical radar against attacks by closely spaced aircraft may be examined in geometric terms and the results can be plotted graphically. It is seen that a pulse Doppler type radar, which provides information about target velocity as well as range and angle, is essential in this kind of environment. When the targets are so closely spaced that all else fails, then separation or at least knowledge of the number of targets present is still possible if sufficient Doppler resolution is available to permit the measurement of the small changes in velocity that will be required for the aircraft to maintain formation."
"A new approach to binary-data transmission, termed correlative level coding, is presented, along with practical aspects based on research conducted during the past few years. Following a review of basic data-transmission concepts and definitions, the author discusses the general form of the level-coded correlative techniques, as well as the specific codes with and without carrier modulation. In the error-detection process, it has been found that with this type of system it is unnecessary to introduce redundant digits into the original data stream."
"As the world has become more technically oriented, the number of patent applications has been increasing also-too rapidly for the Patent Office to assimilate them comfortably with current techniques. When an application for a patent is received, it must be evaluated as to novelty by a specialist who searches the prior art for similar patents. Previously, all such searches were done manually, which meant that the examiner had to rely entirely on his knowledge and experience. In an effort to remedy the situation the Office has instituted mechanized search methods. In order to ascertain the differences in patterns of thinking associated with manual and mechanized searches, a study was carried out in which a patent application in the transistor art was searched both manually and by a mechanized method. The mechanized search in this case permitted more patents to be analyzed more quickly but, being completely literal, it does not allow for hunches or browsing."
"Highlights technical articles and features presented in various current IEEE periodicals."
"A list of IEEE publications abstracted in this issue is given. The publications will be available in the near future. Only abstracts of the articles are provided herein."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Translation of several non-English-language journals are sponsored by IEEE, Advance tables of contents of forthcoming translated issues and reviews of selected papers from recently translated issues appear here. Subscription rates and additional information are available from IEEE Subscriber Relations."
"Reports on new technologies and applications for their use in the fields of education, government, and industry."
"Listing of advertisers represented in this issue."
"Advertisement."
"Advertising restricted to professional engineering and consulting services."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Provides a listing of current society officers."
"Advertisement."
"Presents recent technologies and trends in the engineering and computer industries."
"Readers are invited to comment in this department on material previously published in IEEE Spectrum; on the policies and operations of the IEEE; and on technical, economic, or social matters of interest to the electrical and electronics engineering profession. Short, concise letters are preferred. The Editor reserves the right to limit debate on controversial issues."
"Advertisement."
"Reports on news of interest to IEEE members, including upcoming meetings and events, industry news, and recent IEEE member obituaries."
"Advertisement."
"Provides a listing of upcoming events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Advertisement."
"Provides news relating to engineering and computing industry leaders, practitioners and researchers."
"Advertisement."
"Recounts the career and contributions of IEEE members who passed away in 1966."
"Presents a biographical entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
"The properties characterized as photochromic-the ability to react reversibly to light-are found in various substances, both organic and inorganic. The two classes of materials are compared and the mechanism of the process is examined in each case. Of primary interest here are the inorganics, particularly the silver halide reversible photochromic glasses. Properties and ranges of properties of these are reviewed and some possible applications described."
"If fuel cells and fuel batteries attain their expected usefulness in the future, electrical and electronics engineers may some day be joined by a new kind of engineerߞthe electrochemical engineer. The fuel-cell problems this new engineer will have to face include those involving various types of fuels and their properties, efficiency, reliability, life, and operating temperatures. All of these properties are tied in with the important consideration of economics."
"Constructed and maintained under cruel Arctic conditions, the DEWLine was established principally to act as an early warning system against the approach of manned bombers; but with the development of ballistic missiles, with the construction of BMEWS further north, and with the increasing military and other communications traffic across it, the emphasis on DEWLine functions has been shifting. This article reviews some of the highlights of DEWLine's evolution and its development, after a three-year upgrading program, into a study, high-capacity communications network."
"The economic development of the process of desalination depends upon its ability to produce water that is competitive on a cost basis with water from conventional sources. Energy costs can be minimized by combining the water plants with power plants and thus allocating the energy charges. This article analyzes the thermodynamics of dual-purpose plants and shows how the economics is applied to obtain low energy costs for desalination. However, such plants also have certain cost limitations and penalties that must be included in any appraisal. The major factors to be considered are examined and discussed."
"Advertisement."
"Proportional navigation has proved to be a useful guidance technique in several surface-to-air and air-to-air missile systems for interception of airborne targets. In this article, which is tutorial in nature, the basic theory of proportional navigation is presented and clarified. In addition, two variations on this guidance method are treated: one in which the commanded acceleration is biased by a small value of the measured rotational rate of the line of sight between the interceptor and its target, and one in which the line-of-sight rotational rate is reduced to a prescribed value (dead space) and then maintained at this rate until intercept. The analysis is directed, by example, to the case of the exoatmospheric interception of a satellite; however, the guidance theory presented is also applicable to the intercept of a nonmaneuvering airborne target."
"Highlights technical articles and features presented in various current IEEE periodicals."
"A list of IEEE publications abstracted in this issue is given. The publications will be available in the near future. Only abstracts of the articles are provided herein."
"Advertisement."
"Translation of several non-English-language journals are sponsored by IEEE, Advance tables of contents of forthcoming translated issues and reviews of selected papers from recently translated issues appear here. Subscription rates and additional information are available from IEEE Subscriber Relations."
"Reports on new technologies and applications for their use in the fields of education, government, and industry."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"This section contains complete multientry indexes covering the contents for IEEE Spectrum for the calendar year 1966. The Subject and Author Indexes include feature articles, book reviews, and correspondence. Items in the News of the IEEE and Focal points s-ections appear in the News Index, except for People (IEEE members in the news) and Obituary items, which are indexed separately."
"Listing of advertisers represented in this issue."
"Advertising restricted to professional engineering and consulting services."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Provides a listing of current society officers."
"Advertisement."
"Presents recent technologies and trends in the engineering and computer industries."
"Reports on news of interest to IEEE members, including upcoming meetings and events, industry news, and recent IEEE member obituaries."
"Advertisement."
"Provides a listing of upcoming events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Provides news relating to engineering and computing industry leaders, practitioners and researchers."
"Advertisement."
"Recounts the career and contributions of IEEE members who passed away in 1966."
"Advertisement."
"Presents a biographical entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
"Advertisement."
"Highlights technical articles and features presented in various current IEEE periodicals."
"A list of IEEE publications abstracted in this issue is given. The publications will be available in the near future. Only abstracts of the articles are provided herein."
"Advertisement."
"Translation of several non-English-language journals are sponsored by IEEE, Advance tables of contents of forthcoming translated issues and reviews of selected papers from recently translated issues appear here. Subscription rates and additional information are available from IEEE Subscriber Relations."
"Reports on new technologies and applications for their use in the fields of education, government, and industry."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Listing of advertisers represented in this issue."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Provides a listing of current society officers."
"Advertisement."
"Presents recent technologies and trends in the engineering and computer industries."
"Readers are invited to comment in this department on material previously published in IEEE Spectrum; on the policies and operations of the IEEE; and on technical, economic, or social matters of interest to the electrical and electronics engineering profession. Short, concise letters are preferred. The Editor reserves the right to limit debate on controversial issues."
"Advertisement."
"Reports on news of interest to IEEE members, including upcoming meetings and events, industry news, and recent IEEE member obituaries."
"Advertisement."
"Provides a listing of upcoming events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Advertisement."
"Provides news relating to engineering and computing industry leaders, practitioners and researchers."
"Advertisement."
"Recounts the career and contributions of IEEE members who passed away in 1966."
"Presents a biographical entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
"The prognosis for worldwide communications is discussed from six viewpoints. A look at the future roles of satellites and submarine cables, an evaluation of the advances in international telephone routing, and a CCITT progress report are presented. The technical and economic tasks necessary to achieve compatibility are outlined, and Comsat's organizational structure, and its relationship to international communications, is appraised. Finally, the military communications networks in support of U.S. international and United Nations commitments are described, with reference to possible interconnections with commercial systems."
"Human society's total energy requirements are growing at an explosive rate, since both population and per capita energy consumption are increasing rapidly. It is suggested in this article that the most effective long-range solution to future supply and distribution problems will involve the use of both primary (or continuously supplied) energy and secondary (or stored) energy, with the latter playing an increasingly important role."
"Advertisement."
"Industry is turning to new techniques for measuring physical quantities at relatively inaccessible locations and reading or recording them from a convenient distance. Because the distances are relatively short and transmission techniques over the radio link are inefficient, the equipment is less elaborate and costly than in space telemetry. But industrial environments and technical operating skills require most telemetry system components to be far more rugged, capable of accurate measurement with only the simplest calibration techniques."
"Millions of years ago, man in his evolution may have emerged from the sea to adapt himself to a land environment. With projected population curves spiraling upward, man may have to return to his primordial habitat to achieve the elbowroom necessary for survival on this planet. Captain Jacques-Yves Cousteau, the noted French undersea explorer and scientist, is convinced that colonization of the sea floor by the human species will be realized before the turn of the 21st century. Therefore, man must condition himself, through the experience of prolonged submergence, to readapt to the strange, hostile, and silent world of the briny deeps. What is it like? The eyewitness report of a world-famous news commentator vividly describes the weird, awesome, and mysterious sights he viewed at a depth of 650 fathoms when he traveled as an observer on a recent dive aboard the Deepstar-4000. But pragmatically, in terms of contemporary applications, the manned, deep-diving submersible is indispensable in the execution of a comprehensive ocean-bottom survey in which the positive identification and detailed analysis of unusual or significant topographical features must be made."
"Prime-mover response characteristics are influenced by the dynamics of turbines, boilers, and hydraulic systems, as well as by such control devices as speed governors and boiler-turbine controls. Some of the common types of prime-mover systems considered are the conventional single and double reheat systems, once-through units, and hydraulic turbine units. The pertinent phenomena are discussed, as are the implications of prime-mover response in the light of normal and emergency load-change duty."
"Although the philosophy of science was already well developed in antiquity, the philosophy of engineering is not accurately defined even today! Despite the influence of engineering upon philosophy in recent centuries, no one philosopher has made an attempt to define the philosophy of engineering. Thus it may not be a coincidence that Ludwig Wittgenstein, the founder of the modern philosophical trend of logical positivism, was an engineer. But even he never wrote anything on engineering. It seems as if the philosophers left the philosophy of engineering to the engineers."
"Man's knowledge of this world is gauged by the tools with which he measures it. One of the most remarkable achievements of the past decade has been development of solid-state, high-speed digital computing equipment permitting very rapid logical and arithmetical manipulations to be carried out. In the system described, a medium-size digital computer has been brought into the laboratory and made an integral part of the experiment to provide a measurement tool with unique capabilities. Although the system was designed for use in a biological laboratory, it is equally feasible for a laboratory of any discipline. The ease of control, coupled with a visual display of the computed results, have led to the appellation, a ``third generation'' oscilloscope."
"Advertisement."
"Highlights technical articles and features presented in various current IEEE periodicals."
"A list of IEEE publications abstracted in this issue is given. The publications will be available in the near future. Only abstracts of the articles are provided herein."
"Advertisement."
"Translation of several non-English-language journals are sponsored by IEEE, Advance tables of contents of forthcoming translated issues and reviews of selected papers from recently translated issues appear here. Subscription rates and additional information are available from IEEE Subscriber Relations."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Reports on new technologies and applications for their use in the fields of education, government, and industry."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Listing of advertisers represented in this issue."
"Advertising restricted to professional engineering and consulting services."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Provides a listing of current society officers."
"Advertisement."
"Presents recent technologies and trends in the engineering and computer industries."
"Readers are invited to comment in this department on material previously published in IEEE Spectrum; on the policies and operations of the IEEE; and on technical, economic, or social matters of interest to the electrical and electronics engineering profession. Short, concise letters are preferred. The Editor reserves the right to limit debate on controversial issues."
"Advertisement."
"Reports on news of interest to IEEE members, including upcoming meetings and events, industry news, and recent IEEE member obituaries."
"Advertisement."
"Provides a listing of upcoming events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Advertisement."
"Provides news relating to engineering and computing industry leaders, practitioners and researchers."
"Advertisement."
"Recounts the career and contributions of IEEE members who passed away in 1966."
"Presents a biographical entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
"Although 95 percent of the universe is made up of ionized gases or plasma, and although most plasmas exist in magnetic fields, the problem of the behavior of these gases in magnetic fields is a relatively new field of scientific investigation. This article reviews the new findings and speculations on solar dynamics, and concentrates especially on the interactions of the solar wind with the magnetosphere of our earth. Out of the combined efforts of astronomers, physicists, engineers, and geophysicists, a picture of plasmic-magnetic interaction is beginning to emerge."
"Studies have been made during the past few years to determine the feasibility of employing thyristors in high-voltage dc converter terminals. Overall objectives have also included the integration of solid-state circuitry in order to take advantage of the fast response times associated with thyristors. Because of their advantages over mercury valves, from the point of view of economy as well as performance, a bright future is seen for these solid-state devices in the dc power field."
"The introduction and rapid spread of pulse code modulation must be examined in the framework of overall capability, efficiency, and cost. However, apart from television, the only field of application that can presently justify a massive investment in a new transmission system is telephony, because it represents the dominant communication market. Other communication services-such as data and facsimile transmission, telegraphy, broadcast sound, and closed-circuit television-must in general travel as passengers on telephony networks if they are to be economically feasible. Hence, the most fruitful approach to an examination of digital communication is to begin by studying PCM telephony and then to see how other services can be coordinated with it."
"In recent years, the fish harvest from the oceanic waters of the world has increased annually about eight percent by weight. Projected estimates indicate that the present yearly catch of food fish could be multiplied ten times without endangering the total edible marine population. Certain seacoast waters have been depleted of their food-fish supply because of unscientific overexploitation. The Japanese and Russians, in particular, have been expanding their localized fishing efforts to encompass worldwide ocean areas. To ensure continued improvement in the science and technology of catching fish in large quantities, new developments in underwater television; FM sonar; and net construction, control, and handling are imperative. And the accurate tracking and charting of the migratory habits of large schools of food fish are equally important in predicting future and seasonal areas of bountiful supply."
"Advertisement."
"Polyethylene-insulated sodium conductors, having economic advantages over conventional conductors, have been developed. The sodium conductors are light in weight and can be manufactured on standard cable-fabricating equipment. The light weight and the usual flexibility of the sodium cable should afford greater ease of installation in direct-buried and overhead power cable applications. Extensive tests indicate that this system is tough and resilient, and can withstand considerable abuse. Sodium's electrical conductivity ranks just below copper and aluminum. A useful service life of 40 years, under normal ambient conditions, is predicted for direct-buried cable."
"With the introduction of sophisticated techniques such as switching, and encoding, and computer memories, ''communication'' has gone far beyond its original function, the simple transmission of a message, to complex systems requiring many specialists from many disciplines-and so we have produced the ''systems engineer.'' Since education can also be considered a form of communication, it is suggested that it utilize these communications concepts to help solve two of the most difficult problems it faces today: the organization and integration of our ever-increasing, increasingly segmented, store of knowledge."
"The new laboratory to be built on the Gaithersburg, Md., campus of the National Bureau of Standards will provide a nonmagnetic environment that will permit absolute electrical measurements to be made. A brief review of the history of electrical reference standards since the creation of the Bureau demonstrates the importance of and need for such a facility."
"Highlights technical articles and features presented in various current IEEE periodicals."
"A list of IEEE publications abstracted in this issue is given. The publications will be available in the near future. Only abstracts of the articles are provided herein."
"Advertisement."
"Translation of several non-English-language journals are sponsored by IEEE, Advance tables of contents of forthcoming translated issues and reviews of selected papers from recently translated issues appear here. Subscription rates and additional information are available from IEEE Subscriber Relations."
"Advertisement."
"Reports on new technologies and applications for their use in the fields of education, government, and industry."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Listing of advertisers represented in this issue."
"Advertising restricted to professional engineering and consulting services."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"The concept of operational readiness of repairable systems is defined in terms of finite queueing theory as the probability that a multidevice, multimodal system will meet specified operational requirements at any given time. The primary determinants are shown to be design parameters and use parameters. Design parameters, which include reliability and maintainability (as measured by MTBF and MTR), can be lumped into a single non-dimensional design parameter, the ``dependability ratio.'' Relationship of this design parameter to single-device availability is first shown. Next, the more general cases are developed: Readiness of exactly N devices, assuming Q ≡ N repairmen (multiple or compound availability). Readiness of at least N - k devices, assuming Q ≦ N repairmen (operational readiness). Single-device availability is shown to be a special case of operational readiness in which full-time availability of a repairman is implicitly assumed. By the use of an example, certain possibilities for tradeoffs among men, machines, and operational requirements are examined, along with implications for design costs vs. procurement costs vs. personnel costs, using the nondimensional dependability ratio as a system variable. For repairable systems, the tradeoff possibilities between reliability and maintainability are indicated. Limitations of the work to date are noted, and directions for further work are indicated. An appendix contains a derivation of singledevice availability for Weibull-distributed time to failure and repair."
"This paper describes the contribution which reliability has made to the Minuteman logistic planning operation. The Minuteman maintenance philosophy, the techniques used for predicting the operational failure rates, and the factors considered in the generation of operational support planning are presented. A history of the accuracy and effectiveness of the reliability predictions is charted, and two significant refinements which lead to greater precision in logistic planning are described."
"A procedure for generating a set of tests for a conventional linear system making use of gain measurements from normal input to normal output terminals is described. Basically, the procedure is to compute the corner frequencies of the nominal network and choose, as test frequencies, several frequencies in the neighborhood of each corner frequency, and hence, detect shifts in the corner frequencies. Interpretations of measured values are obtained by precomputing the gain at these frequencies for parameter deviations from their nominal values. The theoretical basis of the procedure is also discussed. An example is worked out in detail to demonstrate the feasibility of the procedure."
"Design requirements which consider maintenance capability can be expected to be quite different for space system application when compared to those currently in use for today's weapon systems. Needs will vary, as will the base for the definition of quantized criteria. Maximum urgency is placed on crew safety, mission success, and meeting a launch window. The expressions for quantitative maintainability design criteria will shift from the familiar ``Meantime'' base to one of ``Allowable Time,'' ``Probability of Repair Within Time Limits,'' and ``Expenditure of Human Energy.'' This paper explores the operational requirements for maintainability in future space systems, discusses interface problems, and defines quantized maintainability objectives for the different applications of 1) spacecraft, 2) space stations, 3) boosters, and 4) support equipment."
"Modern phased-array radars are usually complex systems containing many hundreds or thousands of individual controllable, electronically steered, radiating and receiving elements. The usual definitions of system failure or success are given in terms of a discrete threshold of acceptability for a minimum number of operable elements out of the total simultaneously available. The availability, or readiness, of the phased-array radar system must be examined in a different light in order to account for at least the two following effects which are not normally present in conventional systems: 1) the treatment of the outage threshold on probabilistic grounds in order to include the effects of various physical geometries of operable elements in the antenna array for given levels of outage. 2) the branched dependency of a part of the system on other parts, creating a ``tree'' relationship between failures at different functional echelons. A definition of availability in terms of performance as well as outage is sought, and consideration is given to the problems of keeping phased-array radars continually available in spite of outages. Analytic treatment of these factors is employed wherever possible in modeling a general phased-array radar with reasonable constraints."
"Any estimate of system availability calculated from time-to-failure and time-to-repair test data will be subject to some degree of uncertainty due to the uncertainty associated with the sample estimates of MTTF and MTTR. Although decisions about the true availability of the system should take this uncertainty into account, a point estimate of availability is usually the only statistic calculated. This paper derives techniques for placing a lower confidence limit on system availability and for deciding if the true system availability differs significantly from a specified value when MTTF and MTTR are estimated from test data. These techniques could be used to analyze existing test data or to design a test program for demonstrating system availability and/or detecting significant deviations from specified values of system availability. To facilitate utilization of these techniques, curves of the lower 0.90 and 0.95 confidence limits and power curves for the test of hypotheses at the 0.05 and 0.10 levels of significance are presented. Examples illustrating the use of the curves are given."
"Reliability mathematical models of a certain type of system with a branching configuration, possessing quasi-redundant properties, are developed for the nonrepair environment. A simple system of this type is chosen as a vehicle to illustrate the method of approach when in a repair environment. To solve the simultaneous differential equations for such a system in a repair environment, analog computer simulation is found to be very suitable."
"Persons designing testing programs to specify reliability functions and failure rates need theoretical means of assigning confidence intervals to the quantities obtained. Also, persons designing acceptance tests for items with unknown reliability functions need simple, general methods of test design which do not rely on the myriad specialized tables for specific mathematical models available in the literature. The two problems are really opposite ways of looking at the same theoretical structure. The theoretical structure is examined here and solutions to the problems are posed."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Problems in reconciling the outlooks of the economist and the reliability specialist are discussed with emphasis upon the issue of ``quantification'' for analytical purposes. The approach to reliability and quality issues through economic motivations is viewed as constructive for industries as well as for nations, making the long-term reliability requirements appear even more necessary than those experienced thus far."
"Reliability and economic progress are treated generally on the basis of the author's experience."
"Reliability and economic progress are treated generally on the basis of the author's experience."
"Reliability and economic progress are treated generally on the basis of the author's experience."
"Reliability and economic progress are treated generally on the basis of the author's experience."
"As electronic systems continue to evolve into more and more complex structures, the search for better and more efficient reliability prediction techniques naturally takes on added momentum. Needed are not only systematic methods of mathematical model building that will simplify the procedures involved but also noncomplex ways of obtaining solutions to many practical problems. This paper illustrates the applicability of transition diagram in describing the state space of a complex system, repairable or nonrepairable, and shows the methodology of writing the set of first-order linear differential equations representing the system performance by inspection of the transition diagram. A discussion of some applicable properties of linear signal-flow graphs is included. Methods of solving problems by inspection techniques are clearly explained and specific examples are given to illustrate the concepts. The mean time Tm for a system to pass for the first time from its initial state to a failed state is usually a statistic of prime interest. Certain properties of Laplace transform are used to illustrate how Tm of a general complex system, repairable or nonrepairable, can be obtained by solving a set of simultaneous algebraic equations. Flow graph techniques of solution by inspection are shown to be a valuable tool in obtaining analytical solutions for Tm of many practical systems."
"Methods of variability analysis include deterministic approaches, e.g., ``worst case'' methods, ``Shmoo Plots,'' and probabilistic approaches (Monte Carlo and Moment methods). Most of these use as a point of departure the Taylor Series expansion of the performance function about the nominal operating point with all but first-order terms neglected. The coefficients of the series are the partial derivatives of the performance function with respect to the components evaluated at the nominal operating point. These derivatives when properly normalized become the sensitivity functions used extensively in the study of feedback systems. The purpose of this paper is to bring together various results concerning sensitivity which are of direct use in variability analysis. One of the most useful of these is a relation concerning sensitivity sums which furnishes a valuable check on sensitivity calculation for homogeneous functions. Enough errors have been noted in recent literature to indicate that use of this check should become a routine part of variability analysis wherever it is applicable. Also included are applications to pole-zero sensitivity of electrical networks."
"The reliability of a system having two identical and repairable units, one of which is operating while the other is in inactive standby, is treated. It is assumed that each unit has independent exponentially distributed failure times and independent gamma distributed repair times. The failure rate is λ, and the mean time to repair is τ. Formulas are derived which express system reliability and expected time to system failure, specifically, as a function of the capability for one repair, two repairs, and so on. Results are presented in graphical form. Important conclusions are: 1) the benefit of repair capability is negligible when λτ > 0.5; 2) the choice of the repair time distribution does not influence the results when λτ < 0.2; and 3) the effect of repair capability is comparable to that of additional standby units when λτ < 0.01."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"A method is described which permits rapid evaluation of reliability functions and some probabilistic parameters related to the operation of systems. The method is based on the concept of system states and on the observation that, in terms of such states, the probabilistic behavior of systems is well described by the Markov process in infinitesimal dt, whenever subsystems behave independently of each other and randomly in time. Out of many methods useful to determine the probability that a system is in state Sj at time t, i. e., to solve the set of system state differential equations, the algorithm of the signal flow diagram has been emphasized here. Actually, such an algorithm gives us a Laplace transform of the reliability function rapidly and easily, from which one can evaluate some probabilistic parameters related to the reliability of systems (as the well-known mean time between failures) without passing through time-domain. Several applications have been examined, some of which can be resolved with intuitive methods, while some others cannot."
"A formalism is established for calculating the reliability of devices starting from causal, physical analysis of the devices' operational and failure modes. A measured device quantity qi is expressed in terms of basic material properties pj, which in turn may depend on time t and stresses sk. Then defining a kinetic sensitivity θj = (∂qi/∂pj) x (∂pj/∂Sk), and failure functionψ = /spl singma/jθj, it is possible to prove very powerful theorems which show that the kinetics of the failure mechanisms are as important as the stress dependence of the failure mechanism in determining the stress dependence of the failure rate. The failure rate of a device Fi is defined as the reciprocal of the time to failure τi. The failure rate F (cumulant) for a distribution is defined as the arithmetic mean of the failure rates of the individual devices. It is shown that a number S = Fτ can be used to describe the width of a distribution and also to relate the failure rate of a distribution to that of the one device studied in the physical analysis of the devices' operation. Certain prevailing reliability practices are found to have serious deficiencies in terms of underestimating the significance of early failures, when compared with the results of the above causal formalism."
"Some simple rules are given for obtaining the precise definition of a component or manufacturing process from a set of documents. Examples are quoted to show how specifications should be used while at the same time providing a warning against giving too much blind faith to this form of printed word. The difficulties facing specification writers are mentioned and examples of unusable or misleading documents cited. All references are from unclassified government sources."
"The author of the above-named paper, which appeared on pp. 1-6 of the May 1966 issue of these Transactions, has requested that Equation (7) be corrected as noted herein."
"This paper derives a one-order statistic estimator μmn b for the location parameter of the (first) extreme-value distribution of smallest values with cumulative distribution function F(x;u,b) = 1 - exp {-exp[(x-u)/b]} using the minimum-variance unbiased one-order statistic estimator for the scale parameter of an exponential distribution, as was done in an earlier paper for the scale parameter of a Weibull distribution. It is shown that exact confidence bounds, based on one-order statistic, can be easily derived for the location parameter of the extreme-value distribution and for the scale parameter of the Weibull distribution, using exact confidence bounds for the scale parameter of the exponential distribution. The estimator for u is shown to be b ln cmn + xmn, where xmn is the mth order statistic from an ordered sample of size n from the extreme-value distribution with scale parameter b and Cmn is the coefficient for a one-order statistic estimator of the scale parameter of an exponential distribution. Values of the factor cmn, which have previously viously been tabulated for n = 1(1)20, are given for n = 21(1)40. The ratios of the mean-square-errors of the maximum-likelihood estimators based on m order statistics to those of the one-order statistic estimators for the location parameter of the extreme-value distribution and the scale parameter of the Weibull distribution are investigated by Monte Carlo methods. The use of the table and related tables is discussed and illustrated by numerical examples."
"Two analysis techniques for use in the study of a class of non-series parallel, dual channel systems are presented. The first technique is a method for obtaining an approximate solution for the system. It is based on a systematic analysis of first- and second-order failure modes and involves the use of matrix algebra. The second technique is a method for generating the exact solution from the approximate solution. This method involves a transformation which converts the system into a logically equivalent system. An exact solution for the transformed system is derived and is shown to be the exact solution for the original system."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Provides a listing of current society officers."
"Advertisement."
"Presents recent technologies and trends in the engineering and computer industries."
"Readers are invited to comment in this department on material previously published in IEEE Spectrum; on the policies and operations of the IEEE; and on technical, economic, or social matters of interest to the electrical and electronics engineering profession. Short, concise letters are preferred. The Editor reserves the right to limit debate on controversial issues."
"Advertisement."
"Reports on news of interest to IEEE members, including upcoming meetings and events, industry news, and recent IEEE member obituaries."
"Advertisement."
"Provides a listing of upcoming events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Advertisement."
"Provides news relating to engineering and computing industry leaders, practitioners and researchers."
"Advertisement."
"Recounts the career and contributions of IEEE members who passed away in 1966."
"Presents a biographical entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
"The slow-scan television camera used in Surveyor I operates in a slow-scan mode that reduces the RF power requirements for the lunar distances involved. One 600-television-line frame is provided every 3.6 seconds in normal operation; one 200-line frame every 60.8 seconds in a second mode of operation. Upon command from earth, the camera's shutter opens, allowing light energy to reach a vidicon image sensor. The vidicon transduces the light energy to electric signals for subsequent transmission to earth. Detailed calibration information obtained prior to launch permits the correction of images received for geometric nonlinearities and distortions, frequency or aperture response, photometric nonuniformities, and coherent noise."
"In the past, men viewed different modes of communication, such as telegraphy and telephony, as being fundamentally different in kind, a view that has been dispelled by technological advances and especially by the communications theory of Shannon. The way is now open to achieve a universality in electrical communications systems analogous to that of the human nervous system in which different sensory functions-vision, hearing, taste, etc.-are served by uniform nervous transmission lines that differ only in the different types of sensory transducers in which they terminate. There are technical problems and challenges in achieving a future universal communication system that will serve all man's needs, but there are also other obstacles rooted in obsolete social and legal concepts."
"This article, which follows up on the December 1965 Proceedings of the IEEE special issue on nuclear test detection, outlines the problems of underground detection and identification, offers some background in geophysics that the nonspecialist needs to get a perspective on the niceties of the engineering problems, cites some of the criteria whereby underground events are discriminated, and assesses the present state of the art. It concludes with a description of LASA, the largest seismic array ever built, and speculates on the possible political effects of the recent scientific and technical developments."
"The cost of a basic dc line is always less than that of an ac line. For submarine installations the difference is particularly pronounced; for underground cables, the difference is somewhat smaller. For overhead transmission on land, many studies show that a dc line generally costs about one third less than an ac line of the same capacity. It may be entirely justifiable, however, to compare a two-pole dc line with a double-circuit ac line that has two 3-phase circuits carried on the same towers. The dc line cost, on this basis, would be about 55 percent of the cost of the ac line."
"International standardization has always been important to the smooth flow of world trade but today, with the breakup of empire and the rapid birth of new nations, the more affluent countries must re-examine their standardization policies. The first step toward international standards came in 1906 with the creation of the IEC, and in 1946 the ISO was founded. However, U.S. business has been notoriously apathetic in its attitude, with the result that many sales have been lost because of the incompatibility of American and foreign standards. With the predicted merger of IEC and ISO into what is hoped will be an imaginative, dynamic organization, the U.S. should find an incentive for more vigorous participation."
"The physical properties of the lightning return stroke have been investigated recently by a number of scientists, who have made detailed analyses of the optical spectrum emitted by the stroke. Several different time-integrated and time-resolved spectroscopy techniques were used. Through evaluation and comparison of the resulting data, this article presents important information on such lightning stroke properties as temperature and particle densities."
"With the introduction of powerful magnets such as the National Magnet Laboratory's 225-kG device that recently went into continuous operation, it has become necessary to consider the structural problems that arise because of the high stresses-and high temperatures-involved in generating these high fields. Primarily, a magnet material must be provided that possesses strength as well as porosity. Various combinations of ETP copper, steel, beryllium-copper, and zirconium-copper have proved effective. Also, it is pointed out that stresses can be reduced by proper arrangement of the coils, and that there is an advantage to using high-strength materials in stress-limited magnets despite their increased resistivity."
"Highlights technical articles and features presented in various current IEEE periodicals."
"A list of IEEE publications abstracted in this issue is given. The publications will be available in the near future. Only abstracts of the articles are provided herein."
"Advertisement."
"Translation of several non-English-language journals are sponsored by IEEE, Advance tables of contents of forthcoming translated issues and reviews of selected papers from recently translated issues appear here. Subscription rates and additional information are available from IEEE Subscriber Relations."
"Advertisement."
"Reports on new technologies and applications for their use in the fields of education, government, and industry."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Listing of advertisers represented in this issue."
"Advertising restricted to professional engineering and consulting services."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Provides a listing of current society officers."
"Advertisement."
"Presents recent technologies and trends in the engineering and computer industries."
"Advertisement."
"Readers are invited to comment in this department on material previously published in IEEE Spectrum; on the policies and operations of the IEEE; and on technical, economic, or social matters of interest to the electrical and electronics engineering profession. Short, concise letters are preferred. The Editor reserves the right to limit debate on controversial issues."
"Advertisement."
"Reports on news of interest to IEEE members, including upcoming meetings and events, industry news, and recent IEEE member obituaries."
"Advertisement."
"Provides a listing of upcoming events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Advertisement."
"Provides news relating to engineering and computing industry leaders, practitioners and researchers."
"Advertisement."
"Recounts the career and contributions of IEEE members who passed away in 1966."
"Advertisement."
"Presents a biographical entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
"In the 11 years since the first practicable operational tropo systems were developed, there has been a tremendous growth in their number and complexity. This article describes the principles and applications of tropospheric scatter communications and discusses current development trends. Included is a table listing practically all of the tropo systems installed around the world, with pertinent technical data, together with maps showing the geographic location of most systems. The maps are keyed to the table for easy reference."
"Since the successful launching of Sputnik in 1957, much of our attention has been directed skyward in viewing the wonders of our rapidly evolving technology for the conquest of outer space. More recently, our gaze has been diverted in the opposite direction in appreciation of the remarkable progress that is being made in the conquest of another frontier- inner space-the deep and heretofore impenetrable reaches below the oceanic vastness that constitutes 77 percent of the earth's surface area. In a series of three articles, the diverse areas of ocean engineering- the application of the oceanographic sciences- will be discussed in the significance of their broad implications for the future benefit of mankind."
"Advertisement."
"Although conventional transformers are ac, a device that may be termed a dc transformer has been constructed by using superconductors. To provide an understanding of how such a transformer would operate, some of the properties of type I and type II superconductors are reviewed. Since the dc transformer under discussion is constructed from thin superconducting films, the main emphasis is on these structures; the concept of flux motion is also explained. The result of the work described is a device in which a direct current or voltage can be transformed, and in which it is possible to extract power from the secondary circuit."
"This article offers a fresh view of the problem of nerve conduction through the ``looking glass'' of semiconductor physics. It sees the nerve axon as being something like a combination of an ionic transistor and a distributed active transmission line, a view that allows the interpretation of a number of important observations of nerve behavior."
"A new type of stimulus generator has been designed and built to investigate some of the properties of the eye-brain perceptual mechanism and how it operates to perceive and interpret motion. Several time constants of the eye-brain have been measured, and their relations to other known time constants have been interpreted. Some time constants are associated with the brain and others with the retina, but all appear to interact with each other and with time constants of comparable magnitude that may occur in practical visual display systems. The application of this information to the design of practical systems is discussed briefly."
"Even more important than the categorical diagnosis of a disease is the physician's evaluation of the pathophysiological changes that occur in his patient. Automated systems are envisioned that will assist him in his task by providing for monitoring of physiological phenomena, facilitating documentation of clinical observations, aiding in the selection of treatment, establishing rapid communication with hospital service areas, and automatically allocating personnel and equipment. At the Texas Institute for Rehabilitation and Research a dual program of analog monitoring and of computer processing of clinical data collected at bedside is presently under way. This system is described and some of the problems involved are pointed out."
"The reactive power problem will become intensified in the future with the increasing use of EHV overhead lines and high-voltage cable in densely populated areas. Generators alone, with their underexcited limitations during light load periods, may not have sufficient capability to control voltages in some systems in which substantial amounts of high-voltage cable are used. Turbine generators with automatic voltage regulators, however, can be operated successfully in the underexcited region to minimize the problem of excessive system capacitive reactive loading. Although shunt reactors are an effective solution, economics may suggest other methods. Nevertheless, shunt reactors are helpful in controlling voltage during a system-start-up. Finally, more experience with the daily switching of 138-kV and 345-kV circuit breakers is necessary before definite conclusions can be drawn as to the advisability of operating them so frequently."
"Advertisement of available employment opportunities."
"Highlights technical articles and features presented in various current IEEE periodicals."
"A list of IEEE publications abstracted in this issue is given. The publications will be available in the near future. Only abstracts of the articles are provided herein."
"Advertisement."
"Translation of several non-English-language journals are sponsored by IEEE, Advance tables of contents of forthcoming translated issues and reviews of selected papers from recently translated issues appear here. Subscription rates and additional information are available from IEEE Subscriber Relations."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Describes the above-named upcoming conference event. May include topics to be covered or calls for papers."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Listing of advertisers represented in this issue."
"Advertising restricted to professional engineering and consulting services."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Provides a listing of current society officers."
"Presents recent technologies and trends in the engineering and computer industries."
"Reports on news of interest to IEEE members, including upcoming meetings and events, industry news, and recent IEEE member obituaries."
"Advertisement."
"Provides a listing of upcoming events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Advertisement."
"Provides news relating to engineering and computing industry leaders, practitioners and researchers."
"Advertisement."
"Presents a biographical entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
"In the past two years or so, significant gains have been made in cryogenic array technology and also in the necessary support areas. This survey reviews the problems peculiar to array fabrication, cites experimental evidence of recent progress, and attempts to project the likelihood of the emergence of various cryoelectronic data-processing systems. The approach is through a review of basic characteristics of superconductive devices for logic and storage functions and their implications with respect to fabrication methods."
"Devices dependent upon such results of quantization as plasmas, semiconduction, or individual energy-level transitions now occupy a diverse and important position within the broad scope of electrical engineering. Their further development requires a thorough understanding of quantum theory on the part of device research and development engineers. To meet this need, many departments of electrical engineering may soon find it necessary to offer their own courses in quantum theory, just as they did in electromagnetic field theory after World War II."
"By the beginning of World War II (1939), the German navy had developed a radar fire-control system1 that worked fairly efficiently, although its directional accuracy was still inadequate for night firing. Further effort was concentrated, in 1940, to overcome this deficiency. In England, the first radar sets employed wave-lengths of 11 to 12 meters, but continuous exreimentation with shorter wavelengths was pursued until the 9-cm wavelength became practical. English R & D was not confined to range-finding sets, but included images on a luminous screen oscilloscope (the ``yellow-green eye'') upon which all solid, moving objects near the receiver were outlined, together with their bearings and distances. German radar development lagged behind the British because it was concerned primarily with range-finding and not with all-weather reconnaissance capabilities. This month marks the 25th anniversary of the sinking of the Hood and the Bismuarek. SPECTRUM has been fortunate in obtaining first-hand technical and historical information on this significant chapter in the development of modern military electronics."
"A historian of the technology reviews the beginnings and changing meanings of the term ``electronics.'' He points out that it goes back to the adjective ``electronic,'' and even further to the name ``electron,'' which was first proposed in 1891. In its modern context, the origin of the word ``electronics'' has been ascribed to the first appearance of the magazine of that name, in 1930, although there is some contention that it was already in use in Great Britain. In any event, its definition has broadened through the years and the future may see even further changes."
"Nowadays there is a great deal of talk about the information revolution, information retrieval, and the mechanization of libraries, talk that might even lead you to assume that libraries as they now exist have become next to useless. Such is hardly the case. A library, even the smallest and most specialized, is only useless when its potential users don't know it exists, don't know what's in it, don't think of using it when the need arises, or don't use it because they don't know how to use it. You'd think the last reason listed would be the last to apply to engineers, who are, after all, educated men. But no, says ESL Director Ralph H. Phelps, engineers in general don't know how to use libraries effectively because they haven't been trained to use them. In fact, if you are like most engineers, you probably don't use your own Engineering Societies Library nearly as much as you might. It may pay off for you to spend a few minutes considering just what ESL is, and to find out how it is prepared to help you- no matter where you are, whether you are near ESL, which is in the same building as IEEE Headquarters in New York, whether you are on the West Coast, or in Europe."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Highlights technical articles and features presented in various current IEEE periodicals."
"A list of IEEE publications abstracted in this issue is given. The publications will be available in the near future. Only abstracts of the articles are provided herein."
"Advertisement."
"Translation of several non-English-language journals are sponsored by IEEE, Advance tables of contents of forthcoming translated issues and reviews of selected papers from recently translated issues appear here. Subscription rates and additional information are available from IEEE Subscriber Relations."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Listing of advertisers represented in this issue."
"Advertising restricted to professional engineering and consulting services."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Provides a listing of current society officers."
"Advertisement."
"Presents recent technologies and trends in the engineering and computer industries."
"Reports on news of interest to IEEE members, including upcoming meetings and events, industry news, and recent IEEE member obituaries."
"Advertisement."
"Provides a listing of upcoming events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Advertisement."
"Provides news relating to engineering and computing industry leaders, practitioners and researchers."
"Advertisement."
"Recounts the career and contributions of IEEE members who passed away in 1966."
"The set of scientific thinking tools described is based on dramatized, exaggerated patterns of logical structures. What these patterns have in common is an overall invariance relationship that makes something true even though the details may differ in different situations- and a knowledge of that relationship leads to simple solutions of apparently complex problems. Articulated science teaching is defined as a method of getting the invariance concept across to the student by using selected puzzles and games as exercises in logical thinking. The end result should be to improve rational reasoning ability both in science and in everyday life."
"Attempts are now under way in Europe to formulate standards for color television transmission. A number of methods have been devised for the transmission of the chrominance and luminance color signals. These techniques are all characterized by signal separation, the use of difference signals, and inter-leaved frequency bands; in other words, they are all based on the National Television System Committee proposals adopted when a standardized color television system was established for the United States some years ago. Their differences lie only in the means employed for subcarrier modulation and demodulation."
"The fuel cell is basically an energy-conversion device in which chemical energy is isothermally converted into dc electricity. Several types of fuel cell systems have been developed, including the hydrogen-oxygen system used in certain space missions, but many of them employ fuels that are expensive and not readily available. Considerable research and development work is being done on hydrocarbon-air systems, which use air and \"real-world\" fuels. In the direct-oxidation cells, the hydrocarbon fuel is oxidized directly at the fuel electrode. Because of reaction problems at the electrode, these cells are still in their early stages of development. In the indirect-oxidation cells, now in the systems engineering development stage, the hydrocarbon fuel is converted into an impure hydrogen, which may then be purified to a certain degree and injected into the fuel cell modules. Initial applications will probably be in the military, because of the fuel flexibility and ease of maintenance inherent in these fuel cell systems."
"Utilization of the three-dimensional aspects of the cathode-ray tube-vertical signal deflection, flexible time base, and intensity modulation-makes it possible to organize certain types of data into a meaningful format, greatly simplifying the interpretation of these data. This article describes the basic principles of organizing and displaying data in the contouro-graphic form, indicates several degrees of complexity in providing the instrumentation for this method, and presents a number of contourograms illustrating various applications."
"Advertisement."
"During the past five years, the development of gas lasers, as measured in maximum available, continuously operating optical output power, has increased at the rate of about ten times per year. This growth, however, has not occurred in only one type of gas laser-four different wavelengths, in three gaseous media, have been responsible for maintaining this growth envelope. The author discusses the discovery of ionized noble gas lasers and their modus operandi, and presents the standard operation of ~ one-watt units to exemplify most of the salient characteristics of this kind of laser. The nature of the problems involved, and their tentative solutions in the quest for higher argon laser power (5-100 watts), is the subject of the main section of this article. This is followed by a few remarks on present and predicted applications for the interesting-and important-argon laser."
"Advertisement."
"A list of IEEE publications abstracted in this issue is given. The publications will be available in the near future. Only abstracts of the articles are provided herein."
"Advertisement."
"Translation of several non-English-language journals are sponsored by IEEE, Advance tables of contents of forthcoming translated issues and reviews of selected papers from recently translated issues appear here. Subscription rates and additional information are available from IEEE Subscriber Relations."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Listing of advertisers represented in this issue."
"Advertising restricted to professional engineering and consulting services."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Provides a listing of current society officers."
"Presents recent technologies and trends in the engineering and computer industries."
"Readers are invited to comment in this department on material previously published in IEEE Spectrum; on the policies and operations of the IEEE; and on technical, economic, or social matters of interest to the electrical and electronics engineering profession. Short, concise letters are preferred. The Editor reserves the right to limit debate on controversial issues."
"Advertisement."
"Reports on news of interest to IEEE members, including upcoming meetings and events, industry news, and recent IEEE member obituaries."
"Advertisement."
"Provides a listing of upcoming events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Advertisement."
"Provides news relating to engineering and computing industry leaders, practitioners and researchers."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Recounts the career and contributions of IEEE members who passed away in 1966."
"Presents a biographical entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
"Since their inception in 1949, community antenna television systems have experienced rapid growth. They usually are found in areas where conventional antennas do not provide adequate television reception. The basic equipment consists of a ``headend,'' which picks up the off-air signals, and the distribution network, which delivers the signals to the subscriber's television or FM receiver. The central antenna is erected at the most advantageous site for best reception of desired channels. Today, it is estimated that CATV serves approximately 2 million homes, and this number is increasing constantly. As a result, there is now much controversy over such factors as franchises, rates, and standards."
"Holography, the science of producing images by wavefront reconstruction, has been receiving increased attention during the past few years, chiefly because of achievements made possible by the development of the laser as a coherent light source. By holographic techniques, three-dimensional objects may be reconstructed as three-dimensional images, in full color, and magnified or reduced in size, as desired. This article describes the basic principles of holography, as well as some of the work being done in this field, including experiments with volume holograms and hologram interferometry."
"Since 1900 most of our power has been supplied by alternating current, but the high-voltage electron tubes and the rectifying equipment developed during the last decade have revived our interest in direct current. Because geographical factors have made most of our present-day dc cables submarine, we find that we are beset by the same problems that were involved with their historical antecedents- transatlantic telegraph, and later telephone, cables. Mechanical problems arise because of the complex structure of a cable, and because of all of the stresses to which it is subjected. There is also the problem of electrical stress. A comparison of the various types of cable shows that rugged, lightweight equipment is desirable, and that taped insulation insures reliability."
"The main reasons for the present interest in the potentialities of the laser for communication system applications lie in the coherent nature of the radiation and the short wavelength. The property of coherence, as considered in this article, is the ability of an electromagnetic wave to interfere with itself. The phenomenon is characterized by the ability to form a highly collimated beam, which leads to the ability to achieve communications over great distances. However, the perturbing effects of the earth's atmosphere on coherent optical radiation raise a serious obstacle to the use of lasers in earthbound communication systems. Space and interplanetary communications applications appear more promising as atmospheric effects are eliminated."
"Advertisement."
"The parametric concept can be used to join conventional language to the language of quantum mechanics. In this article the philosophy of the parametric viewpoint is developed in terms of ordinary mechanics and the relevance of machines to energy levels is given in simple terms. Energy-level diagrams are employed to investigate various devices, which bear strong underlying relationships but have no superficial resemblance to each other. By the use of an energy-level characterization a new form of servomechanism is devised."
"Progress in the field of controlled fusion is being slowed by inadequate confinement of the hot plasma, due in most cases to instabilities of one type or another. The key to the problem appears to lie in the systematic reduction of the various energy reservoirs available to drive these instabilities."
"For the past several years the United States Federal Aviation Agency has recognized the potential of artificial earth satellites for improved air traffic control. This potential lies primarily in the areas of communications, navigation, and data acquisition, with communications being the area closest to realization. Projects completed by the Agency to date indicate that a communications satellite in synchronous orbit with the capability of several VHF channels employing voice modulation is feasible for implementation by 1970 or earlier. These projects also indicate that there is less certainty about realizing the navigation and data acquisition potential. Efforts are currently under way to define further the air traffic control requirements for satellite systems and to synthesize a communications satellite system. These efforts are designed to consider such major factors as system implementation timing, cost versus benefit, circuit discipline requirements, and system technical parameters. Experimental use will be made of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration ATS-B satellite in late 1966 to support this effort and some nonsatellite hardware development will also be undertaken."
"Highlights technical articles and features presented in various current IEEE periodicals."
"Advertisement."
"A list of IEEE publications abstracted in this issue is given. The publications will be available in the near future. Only abstracts of the articles are provided herein."
"Advertisement."
"Translation of several non-English-language journals are sponsored by IEEE, Advance tables of contents of forthcoming translated issues and reviews of selected papers from recently translated issues appear here. Subscription rates and additional information are available from IEEE Subscriber Relations."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Listing of advertisers represented in this issue."
"Advertising restricted to professional engineering and consulting services."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"The purpose of this paper is to familiarize the reader with a computer program for performing a statistical analysis of a series of events (point stochastic process). First, we define what is meant by a series of events, give a general outline of the program, and discuss in general terms the types of analysis that might be performed on a series of events."
"A classification of merge-sorts has been introduced in which members of Class Ia for i = 0 and i = k − 1 agree with Carter's definition of polyphase and cascade merge-sorts. For 0 < i < k − 1, the defined merge-sorts are classified in the general category of compromise merge-sorts. Class Ia and the defined larger Class I merge-sorts are shown to have interesting properties, the most important being that members of these classes can be characterized by a single matrix. Interpreted, this property indicates that the particular merge can go to completion using the same procedure throughout the merge. This property defines a merge going to proper completion. The introduction of matrix descriptions of Classes I and Ia merge-sorts is useful since methods of matrix manipulation are well known. By defining new operators for the matrices, it is shown how patterns of ascending and descending sequences required as a result of the presort phase can be determined."
"The procedure described in this paper gives insight into the economic use of computing devices when large blocks of data can be transmitted at the same time. It also demonstrates that computing time can be reduced by an appropriate plan for distributing data among main memory and various input/output devices."
"One of the basic limitations of a digital computer is the size of its available memory.1 In most cases, it is neither feasible nor economical for a user to insist that every problem program fit into memory. The number of words of information in a program often exceeds the number of cells (i.e., word locations) in memory. The only way to solve this problem is to assign more than one program word to a cell. Since a cell can hold only one word at a time, extra words assigned to the cell must be held in external storage. Conventionally, overlay techniques are employed to exchange memory words and external-storage words whenever needed; this, of course, places an additional planning and coding burden on the programmer. For several reasons, it would be advantageous to rid the programmer of this function by providing him with a “virtual” memory larger than his program. An approach that permits him to use a sufficiently large address range can accomplish this objective, assuming that means are provided for automatic execution of the memory-overlay functions."
"Of several programming languages for IBM SYSTEM/360, the Assembler Language (AL) is closest to the machine language in form and content.1–3 Because AL enables the programmer to use all SYSTEM/360 facilities as directly as if he were coding in machine language, AL can be used for all types of applications, and affords the programmer complete freedom in adapting special programming techniques to his specific needs. This paper discusses a macro language that programmers can invoke to reduce AL programming effort and shorten AL source programs."
"With the availability of continually increasing amounts of core storage, one might reasonably expect a trend toward programs which take advantage of large tables to reduce execution times. Examples of areas in which large tables have already been found necessary for the attainment of reasonable computation times are: large-scale weather forecasting, neutron transport and diffusion calculations, and bubble chamber analyses."
"Of late, considerable attention has been given to time-sharing computer systems. To provide a close relationship between the computer and its users, these systems typically handle a variety of remote terminals, from typewriters to computer graphic display systems. Although many source terminals may employ the computer concurrently, the objective is to provide a form of terminal service that makes it appear to each terminal operator as if he were the only one using the computer."
"Because a teleprocessing system is characterized by a multiplicity of unscheduled inputs, performance predictions are somewhat more difficult to make than in the case of the batch-processing system. Nevertheless, probability and queuing theory can be used to analyze various subsystems within the total system. The nature of a teleprocessing system is outlined, and the subsystems most deserving of mathematical analysis are isolated. The advantage of direct mathematical solutions for systems design, where applicable, is that results can be obtained rapidly and inexpensively, often without even running a computer program. The advantage of using digital simulation is that the peculiarities of a proposed teleprocessing system can be modeled more accurately and therefore evaluated more completely. The advantages of using the two methods together are twofold. Formulas can be useful when it is still. premature to write a simulation model. Later, they can be helpful in targeting the parameter spaces of most interest, thereby cutting down on simulator running time."
"For practical purposes, the analyses involved in designing a teleprocessing system can be divided between studies pertaining to the design of the systems center and those pertaining to the communication network. The latter studies, in turn, can be subdivided into analyses of both acceptable line loadings and optimal line configurations."
"This paper discusses an approximate procedure for estimating the amount of storage required for a buffer pool. The solution method recommended for estimating the required number of buffers was checked by simulation (for the case of a Poisson distribution of input messages) and found to agree within six percent of the estimates yielded by the simulation."
"To provide estimates of device utilizations, queue lengths, and response times, a queuing model for a hypothetical auxiliary-storage system is formulated and analyzed. The limitations of the model are emphasized, as they are important in application of the model. On the other hand, useful ways of extending the utility of the model are also discussed."
"The mean percentage of main-storage cycles required by a multiplexor channel is dependent upon the status of the channel at service time as well as the rate of incoming requests and the interference caused by channels of higher priority. A simple and reasonably accurate method of estimating multiplexor channel interference is discussed. The method is based on a mathematical model which assumes that requests for multiplexor service arrive haphazardly from a number of requesting sources; this assumption is realistic for most teleprocessing applications."
"This paper attempts to point out the role that simulation plays in the design of computer systems, emphasizing that this technique should be used, not as a sporadic tool to obtain unrelated answers, but as an experimental method and a continuing integral part of the design process. Although simulation is especially pertinent to the design of teleprocessing systems, it should be emphasized that simulation methods can also be useful in the design of the broad spectrum of computer systems including time-sharing and multiprocessing systems."
"The environment that may confront an operating system has lately undergone great change. For example, in its several compatible models, SYSTEM/360 spans an entire spectrum of applications and offers an unprecedented range of optional devices.1 It need come as no surprise, therefore, that OS/360—the Operating System for SYSTEM/360—evinces more novelty in its scope than in its functional objectives."
"In OS/360, for which the basic unit of work is the task, resources are allocated only to tasks. In general, resources are allocated dynamically to permit easier planning on the part of the programmer, achieve more efficient utilization of storage space, and open t8he way for concurrenetx ecution of a number of tasks. Users notify the system of work requirements by defining each job as a sequence of job-control statements. The number of tasks entailed by a job depends upon the nature of the job. The system permits job definitions to be cataloged, thereby simplifying the job resubmittal process. Reading of job specifications and source data, printing of job results, and job execution can occur simultaneously for differenjot bs. Job inputs and outputs mbaey queued in direct-access storage, thereby avoiding the need for external batching and permitting priority-governed job execution. In its multijob-initiation mode, the system can process a number of jobs concurrently."
"The design of OS/360 assures that data sets of all kinds can be systematically identified, stored, retrieved, and surveyed. Versatility is served by a variety of techniques for structuring data sets, catalogs, buffers, and data transfers. In the interest of operational adaptability, the system tailors itself to actual needs on a dynamic basis. For programming efficiency, source programs may be device-independent to a novel degree."
"Some of the main problems of the gallium arsenide planar technology are discussed. The most suitable starting material used has been obtained by vapor growth. Methods of zinc and tin diffusion have been studied in connection with masking by pyrolytic SiO2/P2O5 layers. An alternative technique using doped silicon dioxide for the production of planar devices has been developed. The latter method features complete surface protection and easy control of the impurity concentration. The application of both methods to the production of npn, pnp, and four-layer devices is described. Using an epitaxial etch-refill technique it is possible to obtain electrically isolated devices on a common semi-insulating GaAs substrate."
"Deviation of phosphorus-impurity profiles in silicon from ideal ones under the diffusion condition of high surface concentrations is well known. Diffusion of high concentrations of phosphorus is also known to cause generation of dislocations with edge character in silicon wafer surfaces. A major cause of the deviation of the phosphorus profile is shown to be solute accumulation at these dislocations. The dislocation-precipitated profile is calculated for the ideal complementary error-function diffusion profile of phosphorus with 1021 atoms/cm3 of surface concentration, using Ham's model of stress-assisted precipitation on dislocations. The results are shown to account for most of the major features of the experimental diffusion profiles."
"This paper reviews the conceptual features and the applications of the integrated vocoder. In a comparison with the structural properties of the channel vocoder and other experimental types, the integrated vocoder is shown to be a technically simple solution to the well-known problems of pitch description and vocoder signal transmission. The design reduces the complexity of the over-all speech processing equipment and features a saving in device hardware. The potential of this vocoder design for time division multiplex transmission systems is discussed and an application of the new vocoder concept is shown for computer input-output equipment."
"Improved techniques and instrumentation for observing the de Haas-Shubnikov (dHS) effect are described and preliminary results of their application to measurements on bismuth are presented. The two main features of the method are: first, the monotonic H2 term in the magnetoresistance is subtracted out, allowing increased amplification of the oscillatory part, and therefore increased sensitivity in detecting the periods; second, the magnetic field is swept such that 1/H varies linearly in time, producing dHS oscillations sinusoidal in time, making it possible to use real-time differentiation and filtering to separate interfering periods. The method thus provides a large amount of data reduction prior to recording, permits direct measurement and averaging of the periods from the recorded data, and allows a more accurate and unambiguous interpretation of the data. Much of the instrumentation described (1/H sweep, filter, differentiator) has been built around commercially available operational amplifiers."
"A partial analysis is made of the types of error of Fowler's method, which uses the z-transform procedure for digital simulation of complex systems."
"The quasi-static magnetic properties of vacuum-deposited Permalloy films of zero-magnetostrictive composition are examined in situ in an evaporator equipped with a laser-operated Kerr magneto-optic hysteresigraph. The coercive force, which depends strongly upon the film thickness, is large (Hc > 20 Oe) when the hysteresis loop is first observable with a thickness of ∼50 Å for low substrate temperatures (T < 50°C) and ∼100 Å for high substrate temperatures (T > 100°C). There are two peaks of coercivity, at ∼400 Å and ∼1000 Å; the two are thought to be related, respectively, to the transitions from the Néel to the cross-tie walls, and from the cross-tie to the Bloch walls. Two distinct components of the uniaxial anisotropy field are identified, both of which are characteristic of fabrication parameters: K1, which is difficult to re-orient once the anisotropy is induced; and K2, which is readily re-oriented (with time constant less than 10 sec) along any angle between the easy and the hard axis. The net anisotropy field and the easy-axis orientation, both of which are affected by the K2 components, can be calculated for a given set of fabrication parameters. Experimental results agree well with the calculated values. The angular dispersion does not appear to be affected by the amplitude of the orienting field H or the nature of the field (a.c. or d.c.) when H > Hc. There is a slight increase in angular dispersion as the K2 component of the anisotropy rotates from the easy to the hard axis."
"The tunneling characteristics of junctions consisting of two normal metals separated by a thin insulating film have been analyzed theoretically,1,2 and the main features of the analyses have been corroborated by extensive experimental studies. On the other hand, relatively little attention has been given to junctions in which one of the metals is replaced by a semiconductor.3 Recently, we showed that, under certain conditions, such junctions exhibit a negative resistance, as in the Al-Al2O3-SnTe system.4,5 We have continued that investigation and now have derived the electron barrier heights of that system, and have extended our studies to the system in which GeTe replaces SnTe."
"The problem considered is the diagnosis of failures of automata, specifically, failures that manifest themselves as logical malfunctions. A review of previous methods and results is first given. A method termed the “calculus of D-cubes” is then introduced, which allows one to describe and compute the behavior of failing acyclic automata, both internally and externally. An algorithm, called the D-algorithm, is then developed which utilizes this calculus to compute tests to detect failures. First a manual method is presented, by means of an example. Thence, the D-algorithm is precisely described by means of a program written in Iverson notation. Finally, it is shown for the acyclic case in which the automation is constructed from AND's, NAND's, OR's and NOR's that if a test exists, the D-algorithm will compute such a test."
"This paper describes some difficulties encountered in the numerical solution of nonlinear circuit equations. A particular transistor circuit is analyzed to illustrate the nature of the difficulties and how they may be resolved. In this circuit it is possible, without sacrificing accuracy of the physical model, to eliminate unimportant stray parameters whose presence destroys the efficiency of most integration routines. A method based on a potential function is used for deriving the circuit equations and it is shown how these equations can be systematically reduced upon removing the stray parameters. Application of such techniques to the circuit considered reduced the calculation time (on an IBM 7094) from 30 minutes to 7 seconds."
"Experiments are described on the travelling domains of high electric field which can exist in n-type GaAs. A brief discussion of the appearance of stationary domains near the cathode and of the nucleation and transient behaviour of travelling domains is given, but the main topic is the steady-state behaviour of travelling domains. Measurements are reported on the dependence of domain velocity, and of the voltage drop across the domain, on the field E∞ existing outside the domain. It is found that the velocity increases with E∞, but the voltage decreases. The resulting negative resistance is seen to have important consequences for the stability of the domain in real specimens."
"A discussion is given of the complications obtaining when a bar of GaAs, generating microwave oscillations, is allowed to interact with an external circuit. Three very different modes of operation can be expected, each corresponding to a mechanism of extinction of the travelling domains of electric field that cause the current modulation. It is seen that the domains may be extinguished (1) when they reach the end of the bar, (2) when the voltage drops too low for the stability of a domain, or (3) when it rises too high. In the last two circumstances, the external circuit plays an important role. Conditions for the existence of the various modes are deduced, and their properties are studied experimentally."
"A developmental resonant wire printing device utilizing ultrasonic vibration is described and results given on some preliminary work on the resonant excitation of magnetostrictive print wires. This paper discusses the characteristics of the magnetostrictive material, the transducer design and some special methods of measuring small, rapid mechanical motion. In the present test setup of the printing device, impact rates up to 1400/sec were obtained."
"This paper describes a high-speed, magnetic film, read only store of about 300K bits. The device and its implementation into a system have many unique advantages, including loose magnetic tolerances, minimal delay in the cell, linear drive-sense coupling, and ease of information change."
"Matick, Pleshko, Sie and Terman1 have described the thick-film read only store (TFROS), a semipermanent storage device utilizing changeable cards containing permanent magnets as the storage medium. The purpose of these magnets is to provide a saturating field for the film bit locations in the TFROS. The intention of this Communication is to describe briefly the process used to obtain these magnets and the way they are utilized in the TFROS. The required magnetic properties are covered in Ref. 1 and will not be discussed in detail in this Communication."
"This paper describes the dynamic selection of the emission wavelengths of a laser by insertion of a dispersive tunable electro-optic Q-spoiler within the laser cavity. Five different oscillation wavelengths of an argon ion laser have been individually selected by varying the voltage on the KD*P electro-optic crystals in the Q-spoiler."
"Wall mobility measurements employing short pulse drive fields show that in films with thicknesses up to 2000 Å the wall velocity is determined by spin relaxation effects rather than by eddy current damping. Further, it seems probable (a) that for high wall velocities the viscous flow approximation is no longer valid, (b) that Bloch lines are responsible for the low mobility of cross-tie walls and (c) that the energy dissipation that is related to a near moving domain walls is larger in films with higher Hc/Hk ratios"
"The influence of semiconductor chip design on the logic partitioning of a computer is discussed and some design rules are given. A chip size of 60 × 60 mils with 24 terminals and 168 components was shown to be optimum. RF-sputtered quartz insulation was used for multilevel wiring and a hermetic seal. Using a master chip technique, a 9-part-number logic set was successfully fabricated. Propagation delays for the circuits were 2.5 to 3 nsec."
"This paper derives analytically a two-dimensional wall-structure applying to the case of two identical magnetic films separated by a non-magnetic film. It applies also to a variety of other multilayer problems. The calculation is based on the usual micro-magnetic principle of energy minimization and all approximations are justified. The wall-structure is found to consist of two “flank” regions, whose shape is governed by anisotropy and stray-field coupling between films, arranged symmetrically about a central “kernel” region whose shape is governed by anisotropy and exchange. In the widely applicable limit of negligible exchange the theory reduces to one given earlier [J. Appl. Phys. 37, 1268 (1966)]. Also included in the discussion are effects of quasi-walls and film-to-film exchange interactions. Existing experimental data on wall-shape confirm the shape of the kernel but are not of sufficient precision to test the shape of the flanks. Existing data for permalloy suggest that perpendicular anisotropy may play a significant role in reducing multiple-film wall energy and thickness."
"Let Mn be the class of languages defined by n-head finite automata. The Boolean and Kleene closure properties of Mn are investigated, and a relationship between Mn and the class of sets of n-tuples of tapes defined by n-tape finite automata is established. It is shown that the classes Mi form a hierarchy; and that, moreover, for all n, there is a context-free language (CFL) in Mn+1−Mn. It is further shown that there is a CFL which is in no Mn for any integer n. Finally, several decision properties of the multi-head languages are established."
"It is shown that the method of Kohn and Luttinger may be applied to obtain a generalized Boltzmann equation, for electrons in a solid, when the driving field has nonzero wavevector as well as frequency. By means of this equation, the behavior of the electrons in response to the field may be followed from the quasi-classical limit at small rates of change to the quantal limit at large rates of change."
"Using the same technique employed1 in obtaining stimulated emission from chloro-aluminum phthalocyanine (CAP) solutions (where the beam from a giant-pulse ruby laser was caused to impinge transversely upon a cell filled with a dye solution and located within a secondary resonating cavity), we recently observed intense stimulated emission from a commercially available photosensitizing dye, 3, 3′-diethylthiatricarbocyanine iodide (hereafter, “DTTC”). Both methyl and ethyl alcohol were successfully used as solvents. This result and that of Ref. 1 combine to suggest that many other known photosensitizing dyes can be made to emit coherent beams of light similarly."
"Two-point boundary value problems for nonlinear ordinary differential equations occur naturally and frequently in applied mathematics, physics and engineering. for example, many problems in flight mechanics, optimization, and control theory, when attacked by the calculus of variations, lead to two-point boundary value problems"
"In this communication we discussed briefly the difference between spatial and dynamic systems. Because the impulse response of a dynamic block and the impulse response (spread function) of a spatial block differ in a fundamental way, spatial systems cannot be simulated by applying the techniques developed for dynamic systems simulation. Therefore, there is a need for spatial systems simulation programs. We then described the Image Forming Systems Simulator IMSIM/1, a computer program developed for the simulation of incoherent photo-optical systems. Such a program provides a convenient tool for the photo-optical design engineer to study the performance of photo-optical systems before they actually are built."
"This transducer has advantages for certain applications where conventional techniques are not adequate. One such application is the measurement of torque variation in a rotating shaft when a physical connection to the shaft is undesirable. The transducer could also be useful when used with high speed movies. This use can give the engineer a visual indication of torque while the mechanism action that provides the loading is also being viewed. Disadvantages of the transducer include the need to design for each particular application and the difficulty in adjustment which eliminates some of the very small shaft-size applications. The technique described here is by no means complete. It is hoped that further effort will refine the design so that its potential contribution to instrumentation can be more fully achieved"
"This communication analyzes the influence of non-ideal practical filters with finite cutoff slope on the transmission characteristics of general resonant transfer systems. Lowpass-to-lowpass resonant transfer transmission systems have been used in the past1–5 as means for efficiently implementing time-division switching systems. A basic transmission path in these systems consists of a band-limiting lowpass filter at the input and an interpolation lowpass filter at the output, with two serial switches and a time-divided “highway” interconnecting the filters. The capacitive input impedances of the two filters (see Fig. 1) and the switching path impedances are tuned to resonance, so that each time the switch is closed all energy from the input is transferred to the output. This makes the resonant transfer method of time-division switching practically lossless and independent of the unavoidable distributed switching path inductances and capacitances."
"Welchner and Roush1 used the term “surface attack” to describe supposed grain-boundary oxide deposits which they observed at and immediately beneath the surface of case-carburized steel parts. Hultgren and Hägglund2 proposed that grain-boundary oxides could form during carburizing, provided certain alloying elements (such as chromium) having a greater affinity than iron for oxygen were present. The formation of iron or alloy nitrides3 and the formation of certain hydrogen compounds4 have been held responsible for the appearance of surface attack during gas carbonitriding."
"The growth of GaP from a gallium-rich solution is described and the morphology and dendritic growth habit of the crystals are discussed. By control of growth conditions it was possible to produce built-in junctions in crystals doped with the shallow donors, S, Se, or Te, and the shallow acceptor, Zn. Green junction electroluminescence of higher efficiency than has been reported heretofore was observed from these structures. The effective segregation coefficients for the above impurities in GaP were determined by radiochemical techniques. On the basis of differences existing between these coefficients for the donor and acceptor dopants, and with the assumption of a two-step growth process, a mechanism for the formation of the junctions during precipitation of the crystals from solution is set forth."
"Gallium phosphide diodes doped with shallow donors and acceptors that partially compensate one another in both the n- and p-regions give rise to bright green emission. This green emission is more efficient at room temperature than the so-called “A-line” emission commonly observed in lightly doped diodes. The peak energy of the green emission varies with the donor binding energy, and the emission is interpreted as a radiative donor-acceptor or a donor-valence band transition. Its intensity-voltage dependence and its current-voltage dependence are discussed for room temperature conditions. At 77°K, large shifts in peak energy were observed to accompany changes in applied voltage. Data concerning this peak shift, the intensity-voltage dependence, and the linewidth-voltage dependence are presented and discussed. Time effects and the temperature dependence of the quantum efficiency are also examined."
"When Permalloy films are used for computer storage, a magnetic keeper can improve performance by reducing the following undesirable conditions: stray fields from adjacent lines and from adjacent bits; the effect of current spreading in the ground plane; and trapped flux in the ground plane which opposes switching in the absence of a low reluctance path outside the bit. Theoretical analysis and experimental verification of these important keeper functions are presented in this paper. Through the use of high-frequency pulse techniques, effects of both metallic and non-metallic keepers, at distances from the ground plane ranging from 5 to 30 mils, have been determined. By defining efficiency as the percentage reduction in the average of four worst-case effects, the efficiency factor of a metallic keeper is shown to be 56 and that of a non-metallic keeper, 73. It is suggested that better efficiency is due more to lower electrical conductivity than to any intrinsic magnetic properties."
"A new application is presented for pert, the well-known statistical project-scheduling method. Using PERT, the logic designer could circumvent usually unrealistic worst-case criteria. He substitutes a formalized statistical method which determines (1) expected or most probable delays, (2) critical timing paths, (3) timing slack allowable between various inputs, and (4) probability of achieving an output by a certain time. From these data the designer can make a meaningful judgment regarding the reliability of his system. Significantly, he may achieve high reliability without being forced to resort to worst-case design."
"The Printed Card Capacitor Read-Only Store system is introduced as one of three Read-Only Store (ROS) technologies presently employed in the IBM System/360 computers. A detailed description is given of the elementary storage structure—a capacitor matrix with a novel arrangement for rapidly and economically changing the matrix configuration. The changeable element is an etched or printed Mylar card, prepared with standard IBM card-punch equipment. The assembly of storage structures into a compact 4032-word, 60-bit module is described. Considerations involved in the selection of matrix parameters are reviewed and a theoretical analysis of matrix performance is presented. It is shown that some of the limitations associated with a linear matrix are minimized by an incomplete integration of the matrix output. The impact on over-all ROS performance of factors external to the capacitor matrix is considered. These factors include the effects of a noisy drive system and the asymmetrical character of the matrix relative to the access circuitry. Computed and observed results are compared for typical System/360, Model 30 ROS operation. The actual matrix response amplitude is observed to be greater than the computed value due to the level of system background noise; however, computed and observed waveforms are otherwise in good agreement."
"Error detecting polynomial codes are usually formed by defining a correspondence between data bits and coefficients of the representative polynomial. These codes are easily implemented in hardware using shift registers; however, implementation in character-oriented processors may be too time consuming. A new class of polynomial codes is described for which a correspondence between n-bit data characters and polynomial coefficients is defined. Two particular types of these “character polynomial codes” are discussed; these may be easily implemented with hardware or with processor character manipulations. The burst error detecting ability of these two types of codes is shown to be the same as for the common “bit polynomial codes.\""
"We have observed that when a specific phthalocyanine solution (chloro-aluminum phthalocyanine dissolved in ethyl alcohol) is irradiated by a sufficiently powerful beam from a giant-pulse ruby laser, there occurs intense stimulated emission from the phthalocyanine molecules. The wavelength of this stimulated emission is centered at approximately 0.755 µ. Its spectral half-width was observed to be some 5 cm−1."
"This paper contains general analytical results which can be applied to high-speed Geneva design. The results are derived from classical mechanics theory and provide explicit relationships between the performance parameters (those parameters such as contact stress, maximum load, etc., which can have a significant effect on the mechanism performance) and the design variables which specify a Geneva mechanism (number of slots, wheel diameter, pin diameter, etc.). In the past, the complexity of the mathematical formulation of this problem has precluded synthesis of the Geneva wheel proportions. Using these results, however, it is now possible to synthesize the wheel configuration directly, instead of by a repeated trial and error analysis. Two examples are given demonstrating the analysis and synthesis techniques."
"Using accurate film thickness measurements, it was found possible to separate linear and parabolic terms in the steam oxidation of silicon, and thus obtain much more precise expressions for the thermal oxidation under different conditions. The combined linear-parabolic relation was found to be applicable to various crystallographic orientations. The pure parabolic “constant” obtained from this relation was the same for different crystal orientations, but the linear term in the relation was found to be very surface sensitive. By these techniques, more accurate parabolic rate “constants” can be obtained and the linearity of the log k vs 1/T plot can be extended to much lower temperatures. The activation energy of the parabolic term for steam oxidation was found to be only 16 kcal/mole. The effect of neglecting the linear term in various methods of computing the parabolic rate is discussed."
"The position analysis of a general four-bar spatial mechanism is developed using tensor notation and operations. To exemplify the convenience of tensors in kinematic analysis the solution is obtained for a mechanism containing two revolute pairs of links and two spherical pairs."
"A mathematical analysis is presented on the avalanche breakdown voltage of a planar p-n junction. This analysis takes into consideration junction curvature, as encountered near a diffusion mask edge. Three different impurity atom profiles are considered: abrupt, linearly graded, and diffused. For an asymmetrical abrupt structure, it is shown that regions of junction curvature exhibit either an increase or a decrease in avalanche breakdown voltage. It is also shown that similar regions in a linearly graded junction exhibit a combination of these abrupt junction mechanisms; thereby, their breakdown voltage is little influenced by junction curvature. In addition, the diffused planar junction can be designed to exhibit nearly the same breakdown voltage as a corresponding mesa structure, or, instead, it can be designed to exhibit a substantially lower avalanche breakdown voltage."
"A stability analysis by the method of normal modes is carried out for a plane Poiseuille flow in a channel with a free-flying elastic tape in midstream. The effects of transverse and rotary inertia and flexural rigidity of the tape on the stability criteria are investigated. An increase of transverse inertia due to heavier tapes tends to decrease the critical Reynold's number while the addition of flexural rigidity improves the stability criteria by increasing the critical Reynold's number."
"As presently manufactured most GaAs lasers have several lasing modes when the injection current is more than 25% above threshold. This paper describes the noise properties of three groups of multimode lasers operating cw at 10°K, classified on the basis of their sub-threshold spectra. Two main types of intensity noise have been found: (1) low frequency nonstationary noise which occurs when a weak mode is lasing in competition with a strong mode, and (2) broadband stationary noise which occurs when two modes are about equal in intensity. The first type of noise is believed to arise from heat transfer processes in the diodes and dewar, while the second is probably the partition noise which must occur when a photon can be stimulated into one of a number of lasing modes. An important result of these experiments is that the total noise for all modes is very small, being comparable to that for a single mode with the same total power."
"A theoretical analysis of the saturation magnetic recording process is presented. The approach is based on the complete characterization of an isolated magnetization transition on the recording surface. The effects of the writing process, demagnetization, recording surface thickness, transducer-to-medium spacing, and readback transducer resolution are considered in calculating the exact pulse shape read back from such an isolated magnetization transition. The theory predicts the significance of each individual parameter that affects the pulse amplitude and resolution of digital recording systems. The theoretical predictions are compared with experimental results measured over a wide range of recording surface properties, and the agreement is excellent. The theory is also in excellent agreement with correlations between magnetic and recording properties that heretofore have been established by experiment alone."
"Recently developed techniques are described for improving the speech quality of voice signals that are first digitally encoded, placed in random access storage, and on demand are then translated into normal speech in an audio response unit under the control of a host processor. The development is an extension and modification of the channel vocoder principle. Speech quality is enhanced by hardware and software features for treatment of unvoiced components of the coded speech signal in particular by separating harmonics from the excitation function digital signal before smoothing. A new program of bit selection is used to assure that the aggregation function digital signal carries maximum information. In addition, an efficient method of storage assignment is shown for the excitation function and the aggregate function registers in the voice code translator."
"Where the magnetostrictive coefficient is of the order of 10−6 or greater, recording may be accomplished on uniaxial Permalloy films by the application of a local stress in coincidence with a biasing field. Here, the stress is introduced into the film as a result of a temperature gradient produced by an incident laser or electron beam. The mechanism of recording is studied and a model developed in agreement with the mechanism. Several modes of recording are discussed, with the advantages and disadvantages of each. Extrapolating the model to a large capacity memory of 107 bits per square inch with 8 micron diameter spots on a Permalloy film having a magnetostrictive coefficient of 10−5, a 20°C temperature rise will be experienced with 2 × 10−10 joules of energy in the beam. The beam power required is 10−3 watts at 10% efficiency and a one megacycle information rate."
"A solution has been obtained for the system of partial differential equations describing the photolysis of an arbitrary number of light-sensitive materials contained in a semirigid, nonscattering, actinic light-absorbing matrix. Each photoreactant may produce stable, actinic light-absorbing products. The solutions reduce to known closed form expressions for the simplest cases."
"Relaxation methods have been used to solve a mixed boundary value problem arising in the fabrication of junction transistors: impurity atom diffusion through a narrow diffusion mask opening. This particular problem is encountered in the fabrication of very narrow diffused p-n junctions. It is shown that the depth of a very narrow junction cannot always be determined from an elementary one-dimensional analysis of this diffusion process. If the width of a diffusion mask opening is less than two impurity atom diffusion lengths, the junction depth becomes geometry dependent. Normalized graphs are presented to illustrate the impurity atom distribution resulting from this particular geometric configuration."
"This paper describes a design technique for high-efficiency microwave frequency doublers using a varactor diode. In this technique design parameters that can be measured in microwave circuits are derived from the Manley and Rowe energy relations in nonlinear reactances. These design parameters are: the characteristic impedances of the transmission lines of the microwave structure, the input and output powers of the frequency doubler, and the distances between the varactor diode and the filters that reject the fundamental frequency and the second harmonic."
"A high speed digital computer used with an off-line curve plotter enabled ion trajectories to be readily obtained in terms of the initial conditions and the parameters appearing in the differential equation of motion (Mathieu's equation). A study of these trajectories has led to the conclusion that ions should not be injected parallel to the axis of the instrument, as is done at present, but through the axis and at an angle to it. A simple empirical expression enables the variation of position of ion focus with mass and operating parameters to be predicted."
"The design of a small very-high-speed magnetic film memory using existing components is summarized. The memory has a capacity of 32 words and 36 bits per word, operates in a destructive-readout mode, and has a cycle time of 60 nsec and an access time of 32 nsec. The storage medium is a continuous sheet of NiFe film. The operational characteristics of the film and the properties of the strip line array are given, with worst case pulse conditions applying to both. The design and operation of the electronic circuitry are also described. A model of the memory, populated with three word-driver circuits and three regeneration-loop circuits for reading, rewriting, and writing, has been built and operated successfully. The paper concludes with oscillograms of waveforms which were obtained in closed regeneration-loop operation with that model."
"A basic logic operation is considered of transferring a logic decision from one point to another point. A certain energy level, WL, corresponding to decision threshold and a time delay, TL, are encountered in the transfer process. The product, WLTL, is a logic quantum, HL. if the logic transfer takes place through an intermediate device, a logic factor, FL, can be introduced to describe the reduction in logic quanta that the device can produce under optimum conditions. Optimization is carried out, as for instance with ideal transformers, to “match” the logic source to the device and the device to the logic detector. The condition FL = 1 marks a boundary between a useful and a useless device, and a logic figure of merit, TFM, in units of time corresponds to the fastest source-detector combination such that FL = 1. Logic performance is considered in some detail for a particular linear model of a device. Nonlinear devices and relay devices are considered in less detail, although some numerical calculations are given for a current-switch, two-transistor computer device. The logic figure of merit represents a unique measure of high-speed logic performance and is therefore valuable in comparing devices including associated circuitry on a common basis."
"This paper describes some experimental work in the recognition of limited-size, but arbitrary, vocabularies of spoken words. The equipment consists of a filter-bank voice-spectrum analyzer providing real-time input of measurement data to an IBM 1620-II digital computer system. The computer implements various transformations on the input data and also implements various linear decision functions which are designed by means of adaptive algorithms. Recognition experiments have investigated the recognition capability of this system on arbitrary vocabularies of up to 30 words. Several normalizing transformations on the primary measurements were investigated."
"This study was designed as a practical test of the cluster finding and coding method described in an earlier paper.1 In order to test such a method it is necessary to use data in which the clusters are known. The clusters for this experiment were generated by taking measurements on sustained spoken vowels. The utterance of each vowel was sampled at a 20-millisecond rate through 15 filters, and the outputs of the filters were quantized into 13 levels. Each time sample was taken as a pattern, thus producing a cluster of patterns from an utterance of one vowel. Eight vowels were used: |i|, |I|, |ε|, |a|, |ɔ|, |з|, |O| and |u|. These are the vowel sounds found in the words “beet,” “bit,” “bet,” “pot,” “brought,” “Bert,” “boat” and “boot.” From the eight classes a total of 250 patterns were generated. Figure 1 shows a typical sample from the data of each class in column 2 and two additional samples in columns 1 and 3 to give an indication of the divergence that occurred among the samples."
"In the usual thin film magnetic memory, that which utilizes the two stable easy direction magnetization states for storage, inverted films (Hc>Hk) are often used to reduce disturb sensitivity. In general, inverted films exhibit a high angular dispersion and an open hard direction hysteresis loop with considerable remanence. Middelhoek has attributed this high remanence to the large number of Néel walls formed after the application of a hard direction field exceeding the anisotropy field. The stable state resulting from this “dispersion locking” finds utility as a storage state and is the subject treated here. This paper describes an orthogonal storage mode which could form the basis for a word-organized high-speed memory using unipolar drivers. Test programs and the results obtained therefrom are illustrated to show the useful operating range in a typical film. The total absence of “creep” and the unipolar digit current input to the device are seen to be features of this dispersion locked mode."
"The transient thermal response of transistor junctions has been described by Mortenson1 and Strickland2 using mathematical and physical models characterized by a number of thermal time constants. Sparkes3 pointed out the dependence of the electrical voltage feedback upon the thermal resistance of transistors, giving a relationship between thermal and electrical parameters of the devices. In a more recent paper Mueller4 has developed the relationships describing the effect of thermal feedback on the electrical parameters of four poles in general."
"Certain problems in mathematical physics can be recast as extremum problems of quadratic functionals. In particular, considerable attention has been givent o them inimization of a quadratic polynomial associated with a bounded and positive semidefinite linear operator T defined on a Hilbert space H, viz., the quadratic polynomial Q(x) = [Tx,x ] − [x, g] − [g, x]w, here g is a fixed element of H and [,] denotes dot product."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"IN THE PAST decade there has been a rapid growth of new staff activities in large organizations performing Research, Development, and Engineering (R, D, &E). The range of titles given to these groups is adequately represented in the affiliations of authors in these TRANSACTIONS during the past few years. They include “systems analysis,” “operations research,” “management sciences,” “data processing,” “cost effectiveness,” etc., etc., etc. A major goal of many of these groups is the achievement of an organization-wide system of data generation, storage, and transmittal that will assist in managerial decision-making and control of operations. A number of such systems or partial systems have been described in past issues (see, for example, Vazsonyi and Liff, December, 1963; Schaidt, and Williams and Wilson, September, 1963)."
"This paper describes a system for internal organization, schedule, and cost control of complex research and development programs with automatic features for generating customer-required external reports and summaries. The system is in operation in all of the Autonetics engineering departments. The system includes automatic data evaluation features such as earned value and percent physical completion computations, performance indexes, projections to completion, etc. The data processing techniques used provide exceptionally low cost methods in terms of data output, updating manhours, and computation time."
"The AFOSR Management Control Data System (MCDS) is an application of data automation to the problems of management control, coordination, and information dissemination in a government research agency. The key to the success of such a system is the confidence of the users in the accuracy, reliability, and timeliness of the output. Ten Commandments of system design dealing with the generation, recording, and controlling of input data, and the management of system development and operation when such a system is fully integrated into the administrative procedures of the organization, are described. The application of behaviorism and communication theory are related to the design of forms, methods, and procedures involved in the flow of input data to the data bank and to the gaining of system acceptance by the users."
"The basic functions of any firm can be separated into planning, control, and operations, the time span of decision being the separating variable. In the planning sector, the three basic factors of importance are the methodologies and concepts used to relate and integrate corporate strategy, structure, and policies. As the physical size of a firm changes, possibly accompanied by shifts in customer and market orientation, the combinations of strategy, structure, and policies change. In the electronics/aerospace industry, these three factors readily translate into 1) a process for selecting market areas as well as developing a technological resource base for a firm, and 2) a process of ensuring that this technological activity is embedded in an environment which will permit an intrafirm flow and transference of technology. For the selection process, a method is presented which develops a technique for establishing a physical cross-sectoral relationship between the military and commercial markets using a unique tree diagram and matrix approach. A related concept for developing technological flow and transference is developed using a Shannon-Weaver communication model. A composite organization structure model correlating all of these factors is also developed using a small group behavior, linking pin, and decision model."
"This paper reports an experimental investigation of the “efficiency” of an engineering department by means of an internal audit. The audit employed a questionnaire circulated to all department members. While no quantitative measures of departmental efficiency were obtained by this technique, the qualitative results proved highly useful to the department manager. The methodology used has advantages which recommend it to other organizations."
"The first comprehensive analysis of compensation patterns with regard to scientists and engineers in RDT&E installations of the Department of Defense is summarized. Factors such as size, type of mission, geographical location, and educational levels are examined to determine their influence on the characteristics and nature of institutional grade and salary distribution. This is the first report on a continuing study by the Office of the Director of Defense Research and Engineering concerning the important properties of its in-house research, development, test, and evaluation activities."
"This paper presents the results of an effort to impose an interface between applied research and engineering development in an on-going project in the field. This was a necessary part of a larger study which examined, through a series of three field studies, the methods used to transfer scientific constructs from research to development in the aerospace industry and, especially, the problems that may arise in this effort."
"Presents a biographical entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"ALL OF THE papers in this issue continue the exploration of themes that have been treated in previous issues of these TRANSACTIONS. Some of them represent continuing lines of investigation (research-on-research.), and others represent continuing attempts by engineering managers and their staffs to improve the practice of engineering management."
"Three sets of parallel R&D projects are examined. The data analyzed were gathered by means of Solution Development Records — a form which provides a weekly estimate of the probability of adoption of the approaches under consideration as possible solutions to a technical problem. It is found that the longer an approach is held in a favored position, the more difficult it is to reject. Furthermore, the number of alternative technical approaches considered bears a relation to judged solution quality. Groups producing higher rated solutions generated fewer approaches during the course of the project, and they more closely approach an ideal strategy of trading approaches off on a two-at-a-time basis than do their poorer performing rivals."
"The yardsticks employed in evaluating the research and development program of an industrial laboratory cannot be used in the case of the Government laboratory. This paper describes the problem and some of the factors which must be considered when evaluating the program of a Government laboratory. Both long-range and short-range evaluation are discussed."
"The modern design supervisor needs a variety of effective management tools which free him from detailed design direction, yet capitalize on his experience. The author presents such a tool, a new ordering scale — weighted specification reference — and compares it to other ordering scales. The technique is flexible enough to include only a few factors for simple designs, or it can be computerized to include many factors of a complex design. A simple design example is presented to demonstrate the use of the technique."
"This paper surveys 116 000 articles, published between 1920 and 1960, in fifty scientific journals. It analyzes each paper by field and by sponsorship. The details of change of sponsorship are followed from the period when 70 percent to 80 percent of sponsorship resided in the university and university funds, to the time when this had dropped to below 20 percent. The anatomy with respect to government agencies is given, together with the field of science. The pattern of sponsorship is changing. The Navy has, in general, provided by far the most generous share of sponsorship. In the period 1949–1960, the average share of sponsorship was: government, 48 percent; university, 29 percent; industry, 15.5 percent; and private research organizations, 7.5 percent. However, the shares of government and industry sponsorship are rising rapidly while those of universities and private research organizations are falling."
"A system for reporting to management on the progress of scientific and engineering projects is analyzed. The hypothesis on which the study is based is as follows: The critical elements of information affecting technical projects can be isolated and meaningful quantitative measures of them, established to assess technical progress. An analysis procedure can be developed for transmutation of the quantified data into meaningful indicators for management. In the course of the analysis, project engineers making biweekly reports tested the narrative-type system. Their reports on statistically representative projects were analyzed using the techniques of frequency of occurrence, percentage calculations, weighted ratios, regression line analysis, correlation, test of significance, confidence limits, and importance ranking. The resultant data can enable management personnel to continuously assess individual projects, and to concentrate on the pertinent factors contained in each report. A concurrent computer programming procedure facilitates reduction of data, and management is more able to identify the recurrent bottlenecks within a particular project."
"In the above1 K. S. Packard discussed the use of the probability of success of a proposal in determining manpower forecasts. Formulas were presented for the expected manpower requirements and the standard deviation for the total manpower requirements for a number of proposals."
"Presents a biographical entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"IN AN ABSTRACT WAY, Brooks' discussion of composite efficiency of multistage projects is related to Rosenthal's discussion of product assurance and reliability. In both instances, there are many people involved in the various stages of a project, either sequentially or in parallel. The “efficiency” or “reliability” of the end product depends very much on the individual stages, but also depends heavily on their interdependence. A multistage project can fail or be inefficient as a consequence of both poor performance at any stage and lack of adequate integration of stages. In a sense, this implies the necessity for some group to be responsible for overall integration in the R, D, and E phases, as well as further down stream in purchasing, tooling, production, etc."
"In a complex process, the overall efficiency can be surprisingly low. Certain factors which control efficiency multiply against each other. If there are six of these “multifactors” and each has an efficiency of 70 percent, the overall efficiency is only 0.76, or 12 percent. Even worse overall degradation can be caused by “omnifactors,” which control the efficiency of many multifactors. Here, the efficiency drops exponentially with the number of multifactors affected. The remedy is to identify multifactors and omnifactors and to improve them or reduce their influence. Suggestions for doing this are discussed."
"Similarities and differences between old-style cost reduction and the new unique approach of value engineering are presented in a narrative style. A few misconceptions about value engineering, held by some members of the engineering management community, are described and set straight. The potential contribution of value engineering as a design tool is described, and general examples of applicability from the author's industrial experience are mentioned."
"The efficiency of research teams in terms of significant publications has been measured by counting citations in the field of laser research. The size of the research team is defined alternatively as the number of authors of scientific papers, the size of the laboratory, and the size of the entire organization. The efficiency shows a large spread at small team size with some teams two to five times as efficient as the mean and more efficient than large teams which show smaller spread. On the other hand, the mean efficiency of the entire team increases linearly with team size by about one percent per additional author."
"Effective control of the reliability and quality of complex, space-age systems necessitates an organized, formal product assurance program covering all aspects in the conception, design, development, and production of this equipment."
"In regard to the above1 wish to raise va question about the basic mathematical model represented by the first equation on page 105. This model permits one to compute the “research and development effectiveness model objective function coefficient” which is “in an overall sense … the measure of effectiveness of each task resource level.” This quantity consists of the sum of two terms; in one term we find in the denominator the probability of success of the task level, and in the other term we find in the denominator the confidence level for the task resource level. The motivation for this formulation is apparently to give some extra funds to those projects which need them; but the net result, as I see it, is that if we have one project which is almost certain to fail, that project will be heavily supported."
"Presents a biographical entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the copyright information for the journal content. May include reprint permission information."
"THE FIRST and last papers in this issue relate to questions of perennial interest to participants in and observers of the Research, Development, and Engineering (R, D, and E) process — the “job content” and “behavioral style” of people in R, D, and E. Erickson reports on a survey of supervisors' perceptions of “actual” and “ideal” work style among their professional subordinates. Her results give some basis for inference about the perceivers' satisfaction with the organization. However, the raw data themselves — descriptions of the work style of the professionals and the grouping of behavior patterns into “types” — may be of more direct interest to readers of the TRANSACTIONS who are responsible for supervising R, D, and E personnel."
"In the spring of 1961, 24 high-level supervisory personnel at U. S. Naval Ordnance Test Station (NOTS) were asked to sort the cards in a Q-sort deck twice; once as descriptive of “the professional employee at NOTS” and again as descriptive of “what you feel the professional employee at NOTS should be.” The two perceived “actual” work styles which emerged from the analysis of the data were clearly differentiated and could be clearly defined. Two “ideal” work styles also emerged from the analysis, but they were much less clearly differentiated. The discrepancy between the perceived work style of the “actual” and “ideal” NOTS professional appeared to have potential value as an index of the perceiver's satisfaction with the organization."
"The primary intent of this study is to identify what first-level technical supervisors perceive as the causes of uncertainty in their design work. The projects studied involved prototype designs by groups of engineers. Sources of uncertainty were defined as factors, including interpersonal relations, which caused group leaders to see more than one possible outcome to decisions during the problem-solving process of design."
"Five research and development contracts that were converted from a cost reimbursement basis to a form of cost incentive contract were studied by interviews with government and contractor personnel associated with the projects. The analyses of these contracts indicate that during negotiations for incentive conversions, contractors avoid risk by some combination of stalling and allowing time to reduce technical uncertainty or by refusing to negotiate agreements that contain cost sharing possibilities. Little evidence was found that would support the theoretical assertion that contractors would alter their behavior to seek the improved profits possible under R&D incentive contracts. However, the evidence does indicate that losses on incentive contracts are highly motivating and may even lead to harmful shortcutting and work stoppage threats."
"Given several important assumptions, this paper suggests that the time phasing of the various skills utilized on a development project result in reasonably stable manpower relationships. The author establishes guidelines intended to sharpen, not replace, management's forecasts of its manpower needs throughout the life of a development program. For the study, he selects five development programs from a single aerospace firm. He discusses the relationships that exist between manpower from the firm's engineering operation and two other operations “downstream” in the development sequence: 1) manufacturing, and 2) quality control and testing. Using simple correlation analysis, the author explores both the time lags present in the application of manpower from the three operations to a development program and the comparative manpower requirements among the operations for given time lags."
"One of the essential elements in the introduction of a new information system is to take adequate steps to assure that the user is thoroughly indoctrinated in the operation of his system, that he can employ it and act on it with the highest degree of confidence."
"Since World War II, the project manager has emerged in American industry — particularly in areas of defense production. His responsibility is to the successful completion of a specific assignment, rather than to a structure of hierarchy. Often, he must cut across traditional lines of authority."
"Presents a biographical entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
"This index covers all technical items that appeared in this periodical during the year."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"This paper describes the use of a digital control computer to supervise and control the process on-line in certain important areas. Among the functions covered are: priority scanning of critical points including off-limit checking; primary raw material control; final raw material control through the raw grinding and homogenizing systems; rotary kiln control including cold start-up procedures; and automatic calculation and typeout routines for production log, chemist's log, and alarm log. Electronic instrumentation and control with computer operated set point provides the basic level of control. This is fully coordinated with the computer, which provides automatic continuous supervisory and documentary functions. Some comments are given on sixteen months of operating experience."
"Over the past few years about a dozen computer installations have been announced and discussed in the paper industry. The acceptance of these systems has ranged from outright return to the vendor, through claims of a twenty percent increase in production. It is the opinion of the author that those systems which had improved control through better regulation of the process as their immediate goal were consistently much more successful than those installations which were keyed in a research oriented, data gathering approach. Rather than conduct another historical review of these installations, this paper will devote its attention to discussing control problems and their typical solutions. In particular, the continuous digester, stock preparation, and paper machine areas will be reviewed in some detail. A typical paper mill wood flow diagram is shown in Fig. 1."
"The application of digital computers in the metals industry has experienced an extremely rapid growth over the past five years, both in this country and in Europe. Indicative of this trend is the fact that the six new continuous hot strip mills most recently built, or being built, in the United States were all designed for and purchased with process computer control. The typical functions in such systems include reheat furnace control, slab tracking, roughing and finishing mill setup, finishing and coiling temperature control, and production logging. Other more recent applications have been made in the steel making and primary mills area, both of which have found ready acceptance. Results from early applications now available indicate that projected economic justification in terms of quality improvement is valid. Several in-service installations are described and the results obtained are discussed. Examination of the steel industry processes leads to a belief that, over the next decade, almost all parts of the steel plant will be computer-controlled. This continuing growth will be limited only by our ability to understand and rationalize the process to be controlled. Presently on the horizon is overall control of the steel plant from customer order to product shipment. Multiple computers, both business and process control, will be linked together to achieve integrated production control throughout the production cycle. The results will be improved efficiency of operation and shortened delivery cycle time."
"Instrumentation for engineering measurement and control in agricultural research is described. Instrumentation and control of temperature, light, and data recording functions are discussed, with analysis of the drawbacks of these systems. Areas where improved instrumentation is needed are described. Specific instrument system examples are given to illustrate progress in process and environmental control."
"Progress in automating and controlling poultry and livestock production is discussed. Environmental control and mechanization of various operations previously performed manually are described in detail, in both livestock and poultry applications. Environmental control systems are included. Economic considerations for converting farm capital to labor are mentioned, and industrial instrumentation availability and reliability are analyzed as factors in conversion to the new processes of control."
"“Cotton quality” is defined as the natural or inherent length distribution of cotton fibers as they grow on their seeds. Quality control is simply maintaining this distribution throughout processing in a cotton gin. Quality control methods are described and analyzed. Specifically, moisture control devices (which prevent the fiber from becoming brittle and breaking) are discussed. These include a system which measures the resistance of a cotton mass to determine its moisture content and to control the drying process. Another system measures cotton temperature drops between various points in the ginning process and adjusts dryer temperatures accordingly. Progress in quality control research at the U. S. Department of Agriculture's Cotton Ginning Research Laboratories is described, including systems for moisture detection and for process control."
"It is estimated that 10 000 farmers are having a computer perform their farm accounting work. This is approximately one percent of all farms with a gross sales of $10 000 or more. Most of the services are offered by State Agricultural Extension Services and state members of a national farm organization. A number of commercial organizations are entering the field with similar services or specialized services such as beef-breeding improvement analysis, least cost feed mixing and fertilizer need evaluations, based on soil fertility and moisture levels. There is an increasing need for accurate accounting and these services will need to expand to meet this need. Additional requirements needed for the farmer are analyses of farm organization — what crop and livestocks should be produced to maximize his return. Direct use of computers on farms will be limited to the largest farm businesses, which can afford to hire specialists with the computer. In general the farmer will hire the services of a computer with the services of a farm management specialist just as he would hire a veterinarian."
"The American Society for Engineering Education (ASEE) Instrumentation Committee explored teacher preparation for this important assignment during the 73rd Annual ASEE Meeting. The discussions firmly established that instrumentation, as a totally identified area of study, generally appeared in two-year post high school or graduate school programs. While the ASEE Report “Characteristics of Excellence in Engineering Technology Education” fully documents the need for instrumentation in a technology curriculum, only as the teachers are prepared to expand their horizons of instrumentation knowledge and skill can the visions of the students be realistically focused on the requirements of industry. To bring the need for teacher education into proper focus, it is necessary that the extent of the field be understood from an educational viewpoint."
"Effective operation of nuclear power plants demands that those designing, developing, and operating them be trained in control theory and application. A unique problem arises in training personnel from many disciplines. One solution is presented."
"A plan for an undergraduate course in the analysis and design of control systems is presented. Fully integrated with the course is the utilization of modern computing facilities 1) as a computational basis in automatic design procedures, 2) as a medium for analog and hybrid systems simulation, and 3) as a component for online system operation. Prerequisite background courses in system analysis, computer programming, and modern mathematics are specified; a detailed course program is presented, showing an equal emphasis on the development of design procedures for continuous and/or discrete time operation of systems. In conclusion, a description of laboratory facilities required for the implementation of the course is given."
"The advantages of automatic over manual combustion control in open-hearth furnaces include faster response and more accurate control of waste gas composition and firing rate at all times. Comparison of the performance of furnaces with and without controllers in this particular shop indicates that the introduction of automatic combustion control resulted in a 6 percent decrease in the fuel consumption, a 33 percent decrease in basic brick consumption, and a 4.7 percent increase in production rate."
"This paper describes the instrumentation and controls for operation of soaking pits. All components of the system are plug-in units of the solid-state type, except for input switching, which are mercury-wetted relays. The input signals to the logger emanate from sixty-four chromel-alumel thermocouples with a range of 0–2500°F. The points are periodically logged on thirty-minute intervals as well as on demand. Continuous scanning takes place at the rate of one point per second between the periodic logs. Upon detection of an off-normal signal, one that has exceeded the set point, all points will be logged with the off-normal being printed in red. When the process returns to normal, all points are logged again even between periodic logging time. With the detection of each off-normal, the alarm will sound and continue to sound until acknowledged by the operator."
"This paper describes the development and application of a system, employing RF induction heater frequency discrimination and power level control, for consistently producing uniform diameter, single-crystal ingots of silicon. Uniform diameter control yields the advantages of uniform slice handling and device production, elimination of grinding to uniform diameter, and a more stable refining operation."
"In designing and analyzing Type 1, second-order feedback control systems, a linear mode technique is the usual method of approach. Any adverse effects on system performance due to non-linearities are often explained away as the limiting condition in which the system can operate with any degree of predictability. It is the purpose of this paper to present a neomodern control theory with emphasis on a highly predictable technique for nonlinear analysis and design. Practical applications of this technique to the analysis of servo loops in the Central Air Data Computers of the F-111, C-141, and other aircraft present conclusive evidence of its usefulness and its importance to the state-of-the-art of nonlinear systems."
"The control loop of a temperature control system is analyzed in terms of an electrical equivalent; and a general theory, applicable to control design of both ON-OFF and PROPORTIONAL types, is developed. PROPORTIONAL type of control for fast warm-up is, for the first time, analyzed, and the advantages over thermostatic ON-OFF types are shown. The peculiar characteristics of the component type oven are presented and discussed from the point of view of design, and suggestions are made with regard to achieving a nonoscillating control with very fast warm-up."
"A method of accelerating the EEI-NEMA regular heat cycle tests for electric power connectors is proposed and the equipment required to perform the accelerated tests is described."
"Design procedure for a precision electric controller-positioner is described. Minimization of on-off device null zones, and inherent increase in positioning accuracy, are achieved by incorporating a modulating electric actuator. The actuator design is divided into two major portions: mechanical and electrical. The mechanical portion is essentially a torque amplification device, where the high speed, low torque of a motor is converted to a low speed, high torque at the actuator output. For large amplification and high efficiency with a minimum of components and increased reliability, a positive drive belt and pulley in combination with a ball-bearing screw is used. The result is a series of actuators with output torques from 100 ft-lb to 3200 ft-lb with speed reductions of 500:1 to 1600:1 and mechanical efficiencies of 80 percent The electrical portion of the design incorporates a dc motor with good control characteristics. Control of the motor is accomplished with phase-controlled silicon controlled rectifiers. The motor speed is varied in proportion to an error signal, permitting the actuator to “creep” to within 0.2 percent of a position dictated by the control signal."
"This paper discusses the basic principle and characteristics of a unique mechanical power transmission with excellent dynamic characteristics. This latter characteristic, plus its unique ability to amplify torque, has increased the torque capabilities of a number of “favorite” instrument control devices — ac servo motors, synchro receivers, and digital stepping motors — without impairing their dynamic characteristics. Application and performance characteristics of the mechanical power amplifier with each of the instrument devices just mentioned are illustrated."
"Clutch-brake motor systems are described and advantages inherent in using them in on-off, rapid acceleration industrial control applications are discussed. Clutch-brake motor system equations are discussed and the addition of an energy storage flywheel is considered. Finally, specific industrial applications are described."
"The p-n junction devices continue to become more inexpensive as time progresses. Coupled with decreased price is increased reliability. Field experience has proved the usefulness of diodes, transistors, and controlled rectifiers in many applications. One important field of application is that of inversion. Static inverters add time dependence to a potential source which is independent of time. The cases to be discussed include the inversion of a direct potential to a time-varying potential having no direct component. Included in these general applications are those combinations of rectifiers and inverters to provide: 1) phase changing, 2) frequency changing, 3) frequency stabilization, 4) voltage stabilizing, 5) standby ac power sources with instantaneous transfer, and 6) direct voltage transformation. Combinations of these are available to provide the system designer with a power supply optimized to yield the best characteristics for minimum cost."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"Viewing pattern recognition as a problem in statistical classification wherein an n-dimensional hypercube is partitioned into category regions with decision boundaries, this paper focuses on a class of nonlinear boundary forms and describes a variable-structure system which is capable of evolving these boundaries adaptively. Most of the present adaptive recognition systems have a priori fixed structure, usually corresponding to a linear decision procedure, and adaptation is performed by parameter optimization. It is apparent that in practice the simple linear system frequently will be an inadequate approximation to the desired boundaries. The central problem in a more general recognition procedure is the selection and analysis of suitable nonlinear relations among measurements. In the system proposed in this paper, the structure adaptation develops as follows: the recognition network initially assumes a linear structure, a set of relations among the input measurements is generated and selected on the basis of design data, and to accommodate these relations, the structure becomes nonlinear. By repetitively generating and selecting additional relations among the measurements, the structure gradually adjusts itself within the class of allowable structures toward an optimal configuration. By means of simulation on a digital computer, the procedure for structure adaptation was successfully applied to a number of practical problems, i.e., handwritten numerals, spoken vowels, and electroencephalograms."
"Based on Hubel's findings in the visual cortex of the cat, a short-line-extractor neuron configuration is considered as a correlative feature-extraction unit for visual pattern recognition. An array of 19 of these feature-extraction neurons is applied to test patterns consisting of the ten decimal digits. Subsequent processing by a group of memory neurons is equivalent to matrix multiplication. When all of the memory neurons are clamped to the same maximum output level, we get a symmetrical feature-difference matrix whose entries correspond to the summation of feature differences between incoming and memory patterns."
"This paper describes a pattern recognition method in which a nonlinear comparison is made between the topological and shape properties of an unknown character and standards determined in a learning phase. Each character is expressed as a vector. The dimensions of the vectors are the points defining the character in the order they are encountered. The coordinates are the complex coordinates of the points in the 2-dimensional grid system being used. The unknown is compared with each standard of the same topological type by measuring the vector distance between them. From this measurement and associated conditional probability factors, the probability that the unknown is of the class of the standard is determined, utilizing the Bayes rule. The standard yielding the highest probability identifies the unknown. The necessary factors to utilize the Bayes rule were determined from a set of 26 samples of each of the characters 1,…, 9, 0. 260 additional samples were then tested of which 98.5 percent were recognized correctly, 0.0 percent were not recognized, and 1.5 percent were recognized incorrectly, thus indicating the validity of the system. It is also concluded that proper selection of features to be compared is much more important than highly precise statistical calculations on the features."
"A mathematical model representing certain aspects of how the eye processes pictures is given. The emphasis in modeling is on how the eye adapts to changes in signal intensity, signal-to-noise ratio, and bandwidth. A few comparisons are made between the computed results of the model and of the psychophysical measurements to assess the limitations of artificial pattern recognition systems."
"In statistical recognition, the functional form of the underlying probability distributions determines the structure of recognition networks. Two approaches toward deriving a hierarchy of recognition procedures are reviewed and their implications concerning realization and estimation of recognition weights are discussed. The approaches are based on approximating the probability distributions by 1) orthogonal expansion and 2) a product of low order conditional probabilities. Only binary measurements are considered. Rademacher-Walsh functions are used as the orthogonal basis. A notion of tree dependence is introduced to effect the approximation by the product of low order conditional probabilities. The chain dependence and the 2-dimensional neighbor, or mesh, dependence are two instances of the tree dependence."
"A class of stochastic automaton models for the synthesis of a learning system to operate in a random environment is proposed. These models are based on defining a learning algorithm which relates the probability distribution of the response and the corresponding performance of the system. For different forms of the learning algorithm which satisfy specified requirements, with particular emphasis on a linear algorithm, the following desired learning behavior is shown to hold. 1) The mean performance converges monotonically to an extreme value, and 2) a criterion is available for determining the best response in the time limit. The learning models provide the desired learning behavior in an on-line manner while requiring little a priori knowledge and/or assumptions concerning the environment. Some applications of the learning models to engineering systems are considered."
"Trigonometric theorem proofs are taken as the application for the learning model described in this paper. The simple basic structure of the heuristics together with the detailed implementation are developed, with evaluation as to possible generality in more general problem-solving processes."
"This paper describes the recent work which has been done by Battelle Memorial Institute in the development of models for the study of railroad terminals. Specifically, these models are mathematical or logical models programmed for the digital computer and reproduce the operating characteristics of railway classification yards. The problem of the amount of detail which should be included in the logic of the model is discussed and the factors which influenced the choice of the depth of programming are reviewed. The philosophy, structure, and general characteristics of one terminal model are discussed as well as some typical applications."
"The economic justification of prospective railroad development is an example of a complex systems analysis problem. Many important aspects of the system economics cannot be assessed by examination of the vehicle alone; such factors as average train length and daily utilization are typical examples of extravehicular factors which must be accounted for. Consideration has, therefore, been given to the effect of vehicle parameters, such as capacity and speed, on the utility of a vehicle in a specified transportation system. To fully describe these effects it has been necessary to use computer simulation techniques to approximate the structure and operation of hypothetical rail systems. The methodology employs a computer logic model specially developed for this analysis. The model is general in nature and can be used to simulate any ground transportation system. The specific factors studied in a given situation may include: continuous variations in passenger demand; passenger trip profiles; train schedules; vehicle size, speed, and turnaround time; and right-of-way speed and headway restrictions. The model provides statistics on car utilization, load factor, required train sizes, and passenger waiting time. The model uses the IBM General Purpose System Simulator language (GPSS III). Although the model is still being developed, it has been used in preliminary analyses of new railroad equipment. For the cases considered, involving systems with three or four terminals, nine stations, and up to 75 trains per day, roughly two minutes of computing time was required to simulate a 24-hour day."
"The stability of a light-weight train against overturning in a crosswind has received only scant attention in the past. This study comprises a wind tunnel investigation and an analysis of the major static and dynamic forces that might combine to overturn a train either when running or when standing still. Results are shown in parametric form and indicate the trends to be expected if wind velocity, car weight, rail gauge, speed around a curve, and several other factors are varied. Since stability is almost linearly related to the product of car weight and rail gauge, it is essential to use a wider gauge when trains are made lighter, if stability is to be maintained."
"An important step in any system definition is exterior design. Exterior design consists primarily of identifying and characterizing the noise and bandwidth parameters of the input/output signals which exist in both continuous and discrete, and random and deterministic forms. The multiple inputs and outputs may be related through a matrix model for analyzing system weighting factors and system errors. The weighting factors determine interior system design. A review of system input/output attributes is presented to aid in the identification process of exterior system design. Probability analysis is proposed as the unifying criterion to balance system design trade-offs."
"Describes the above-named upcoming conference event. May include topics to be covered or calls for papers."
"An analysis is made of the steady-state temperature distribution in a poorly conducting plane film on a highly conducting semi-infinite substrate, owing to a time-independent heat input in a cylindrical region of the film and substrate. The problem is of interest in connection with the localized hardening of anodic oxide films on silicon by electron beam bombardment in order to produce oxide diffusion masks for the manufacture of integrated circuits. A formal solution is obtained for arbitrary dependence of the heat input on radius and depth, and a detailed study is made of a particular case in which the heat input is independent of radius across the beam, and varies in a realistic manner with depth in the film. Approximate formulas are given for the temperature in the film when the radius of the beam is large compared to the thickness of the film, and also when the conductivity of the film is small compared to the conductivity of the substrate. The approximate formulas are compared with the results of calculations based on the exact solution. Finally, a crude estimate is made of the time required to reach the steady state."
"Differential pulse code modulation (DPCM) and predictive quantizing are two names for a technique used to encode analog signals into digital pulses suitable for transmission over binary channels. It is the purpose of this paper to determine what kind of performance can be expected from well-designed systems of this type when used to encode television signals. Systems using both previous sample and previous line feedback are considered. A procedure is presented for the design of nonadaptive, time invariant systems which are near optimum in the sense that the resulting signal to unweighted quantizing noise ratios (S/N) are nearly maximum. Simple formulas are derived for these S/N ratios which apply to DPCM as well as standard PCM. Standard PCM is shown to be a special case of DPCM. These formulas are verified by digital computer simulation. Any advantage of DPCM stems from removing the redundancy from the signal to be transmitted. Redundancy in a signal, however, affords a certain protection against noise introduced in the transmission medium. The penalty for removing this redundancy, through DPCM or other means, is that the transmitted signal becomes more fragile and requires a higher-quality transmission medium than would otherwise be required. This penalty is discussed in quantitative terms."
"A thin low-loss dielectric coating inside a 0.875-inch i.d. round waveguide was achieved by drawing a slightly oversize flexible tube of polyethylene into the waveguide. The plastic tube fits snugly to the guide wall. Several 14-foot lengths of waveguide were lined and loss measurements made. The lined pipes were 8 per cent lossier than the unlined. The increase in loss could be almost completely accounted for by the theory of H. Unger. A 92° Fresnel integral bend (curvature a linear function of arc length) was constructed from a 14-foot section of the 0.875-inch i.d. lined waveguide. The insertion loss between 50 and 60 Gc/s had a value of about 0.1 db. This small value is close to the theoretical result for such bends."
"Estimating the mean of a stationary random process from the average of equally weighted samples taken periodically in a closed interval (O, T) is considered. The variance of this estimator as a function of the number of samples in the interval is given in the form of a modified sampling theorem."
"The question of whether it is possible to suppress ray oscillations in light waveguides is important for the design of light communications systems. With the help of Liouville's theorem of statistical mechanics it is shown that it is impossible to reduce simultaneously the amplitudes and the angles of ray oscillations if the ray originates in and returns to a region of low index of refraction. A reduction of both ray amplitudes and angles can be achieved only if the ray moves from a region of low to one of high index of refraction. Liouville's theorem is used to derive a condition relating the output position and slope of a ray which traverses an optical transformer to its input position and slope. With pi, xi denoting the canonically conjugate variables of the output ray and pi, xi those of the input ray, the condition derived from Liouville's theorem states that the Jacobian of the transformation is one."
"Data communication systems in current use generally require substantially more bandwidth than the Nyquist minimum of one-half cycle per symbol. This comes about for two main reasons: first, the baseband signal spectrum has a gradual roll-off beyond the theoretical minimum;1 second, the modulation process needed to translate the baseband spectrum to the bandpass channel generates additional side frequencies which must be preserved to permit recovery of the signal. For example, a recently described vestigial-sideband system2 uses an extra 50 per cent of bandwidth for each of these two reasons. Consequently, such a system handles one symbol per cycle, and each symbol can convey as many levels as the signal-to-noise ratio permits — independent of all adjacent symbols. Thus, with n levels, each symbol yields log2 n binary digits."
"This brief contains a summary of data taken in the course of a recent error-control experiment. In this experiment data were transmitted over switched voiceband telephone lines at 2000 bits per second using Data-Phone∗ data set 201A. With the transmitting terminal located at the Holmdel, New Jersey laboratory, connections via the switched network were established to various cities (Baltimore, Cleveland, Dallas, Denver, Louisville, and St. Louis). There a return connection, again via the switched network, was established to the receiving terminal which was also located at Holmdel. Nearly all calls were made during the business day."
"A problem that has arisen1 in connection with the use of transversal filters to reduce the effect of intersymbol interference in digital communication systems is to determine a real N-vector $c \\triangleq (c_{1}, c_{2}, \\cdots, c_{N})$ such that, with $n_{0} ∊ {\\cal f} \\triangleq {1,2, \\cdots, N}$."
"In many circumstances a telephone call can be completed through a connecting network in several ways. Hence, there naturally arise problems of optimal routing, that is, of making the choices of routes so as to achieve extrema of one or more measures of system performance, such as the loss (probability of blocking) or the carried load. As is customary in traffic theory, a Markov process is used to describe network operation with complete information. The controlled system is described by linear differential equations with the control functions (expressing the routing method being used) among the coefficients. Restricting attention to asymptotic behavior leads to a problem of maximizing a bilinear form subject to a linear equality constraint whose matrix is itself constrained to lie in a given convex set. An alternative approach first shows that minimizing the loss, and maximizing the fraction of events that are successful attempts to place a call, are equivalent. This fact permits a dynamic programming formulation, which, in turn, leads to a very large linear programming problem. Two small examples are treated numerically by this method. It is particularly important to try to verbalize, and then mechanize, the optimal routing strategies. In this endeavor, the linear programming formulation is of limited usefulness. Therefore, in the latter half of the work we"
"A simplified analytical model of tropospheric random variations in angle measurements is described. This model is used to predict the minimum and maximum power density spectra between which the tropospheric random angle errors of observations on the Early Bird satellite are expected to lie. The apparent angular position of the Early Bird satellite was then measured at microwave frequencies with the large horn-reflector antenna at the AT&T station near Andover, Maine. Random variations in the azimuth and elevation angles have been observed and recorded. The analysis of these records results in a description of the observed random angle variations by their power density spectra. A comparison of the predicted power density spectra from the model with the observed spectra is made. It is concluded that the observed random angle variations are indeed caused by random tropospheric refraction. The feasibility of acquiring data on atmospheric propagation effects, particularly tropospheric angle errors, with the aid of geo-stationary satellites is therefore also demonstrated."
"It is a classic result of Shannon that binary digits can be communicated with arbitrarily small error probability at any rate less than W log2 (1 + P/N) (bits/sec) over a channel with bandwidth W and additive Gaussian noise of average power N, using signals of average power at most P. However, in Shannon's proof it is assumed that the input to the receiver is the sum of a linear combination of the bandlimited functions $\\varphi_0(t-k/2W)\\triangleq{sin\\ 2\\pi W (t-k/2W)\\over 2\\pi W(t-k/2W)},\\cases{&$-\\infnty< t<\\infnty$\\cr &$\\quad k =1,2,\\cdots$}$ (which are of course of doubly infinite duration) and a sample function from an exactly bandlimited Gaussian random process. The fact that ϕ0 (k/2W) = 0 for all integers k ≠ 0 plays a key role in that it implies the total absence of intersymbol interference. As a result of these assumptions, there have been some objections to the Shannon model in connection with the notion of rate, the fact that the received signals are entire functions (which are predictable for all time from a knowledge of their values on any interval of nonzero length) and the fact that it is not clear whether the performance of the model is critically dependent on the assumptions that lead to the absence of intersymbol interference. Since Shannon's model and his associated ingenious arguments are widely known and are of great interest, from the point of view of the system theorist, it is important to be able to prove an “insensitivity theorem” to the effect that if the model is modified to the extent that: (i) ϕ0(t) is replaced by an approximating function ϕ(t) with the property that the signals are of average power at most P where P is approximately P, and ϕ(t) = 0 for t < tϕ for some negative number tϕ, and (ii) the noise is approximately"
"A vocoder technique is described in which speech signals are represented by their short-time phase and amplitude spectra. A complete transmission system utilizing this approach is simulated on a digital computer. The encoding method leads to an economy in transmission bandwidth and to a means for time compression and expansion of speech signals."
"A general theory is presented for evaluating the error performance of a digital FM system in the presence of additive noise. The digital system considered is a conventional one employing a voltage-controlled oscillator as the modulator and a limiter-discriminator followed by a low-pass filter as the demodulator. Because of the nonlinear nature of the demodulation process, no adequate analytical techniques have been available to provide a satisfactory treatment. Adopting the notion of “clicks” used by S. O. Rice to study threshold effects in analog FM systems, we have succeeded in evolving a theory capable of predicting performance for a wide range of applications. While our theory reinforces some previously derived results for binary and for narrow-band systems, the results obtained here are not confined to these situations. In particular, the inefficiency of the FM discriminator as a detector for a large number of orthogonal signals is quantitatively evaluated, as well as the role of the post-detection filter. Some qualitative aspects of the error-causing mechanisms discussed in the paper are general, but quantitative results are confined to additive Gaussian noise and large signal-to-noise ratios."
"An approach to the calculation of intermodulation noise in FM systems due to imperfect transmission media is presented in this paper. The technique is essentially that originating with Carson and Fry. In this paper we extend a formulation due to Rice to include an arbitrary continuous pre-emphasis characteristic as well as an arbitrary gain and phase shape transmission medium which are representable by low-order polynomial series in radian frequency. Series approximations are carried out far enough to ensure accurate results for transmission characteristics normally encountered in broadband microwave radio systems. In many cases, only the second- and third-order noise is significant in broadband microwave radio systems. Hence, the analysis carried out in this paper considers only the second- and third-order distortion terms. A digital computer program concerning the intermodulation noise has been written. This analysis and the digital computer program are of aid in the design of microwave radio systems. With a slight modification, the calculation of noise due to AM -to-PM conversion caused by transmission deviation can also be accomplished. An optimum design of the pre-emphasis network may be achieved by using the computer programs through an iterative approach."
"It is known that in multiprocessing systems composed of many identical processing units operating in parallel, certain timing anomalies may occur; e.g., an increase in the number of processing units can cause an increase in the total length of time needed to process a fixed set of tasks. In this paper, precise bounds are derived for several anomalies of this type."
"A phase-locked laser loop has been used as an amplitude and phase measuring device for coherent optical wavefronts. A relative phase resolution on the order of one degree and an amplitude resolution accurate to one dB or better were obtained. The system and measuring techniques used are described, and the results obtained are illustrated by several examples."
"Quantum efficiencies and brightness values for green and particularly for red light emission from currently available GaP p-n junctions in forward bias at room temperature are sufficiently high to merit consideration in electroluminescence applications where the human eye is the detector."
"Schottky barrier diodes can be used for fast and efficient photodetectors if the incident light is coupled into the depletion layer of the diode and if electron-hole pairs are created by the internal photoelectric effect in the depletion layer. Fast response of the diode is achieved by designing a Schottky barrier with a small RC product. High quantum efficiency is obtained by coupling the light through a thin metal layer into the depletion region of the diode and by using an antireflection coating on the metal layer for matching the incident light beam. Schottky barrier photodiodes have been made with thin semitransparent gold layers on n-type epitaxial silicon and with zinc sulfide as an antireflection coating. A net quantum efficiency of 70 percent has been achieved at the He-Ne laser wavelength of 6328 Å. The pulse response of packaged diodes with 0.5-nanosecond wide pulses shows a symmetrical pulse shape with only small distortion due to carrier diffusion and reactance in the completed package. The diode structure is suitable for detector arrays. It is also useful for optical time domain reflectometry. The technique of coupling light through metal layers can be extended to other optical devices which require efficient transfer of radiation into a semiconductor through conducting electrodes."
"Integrated RC circuits can be made by depositing exceedingly thin metallic and dielectric films in suitable patterns on an insulating substrate. Resistors are strips of conductor; capacitors are patches on which conducting, dielectric, and conducting layers are superimposed. Since conductors can cross at capacitor patches, RC networks need not be strictly planar to be realizable in thin film. Determining which RC circuits are realizable poses new problems in topology which are remarkably simple to state but are as yet unsolved. The results reported here are fragmentary, but they do cover some cases of small order that may be of practical interest."
"In the study of tapered transmission lines or accoustical horns, an unsolved problem of great practical interest is the determination of the taper function (inductance or capacitance per unit length as a function of distance; it is assumed that the product of these quantities is unity) for the structure which will possess a prescribed driving point impedance function. For the case where the structure may be modeled by a cascade of sections of uniform transmission line segments, physical realizability conditions and a synthesis procedure have been given by B. K. Kinariwala.1 For the case of continuous taper no results of a general nature are known."
"A process has been developed to batch-fabricate beam-lead transistors, integrated circuits, and other components, where the leads serve a structural and protective as well as electrical function. Platinum silicide ohmic contacts, titanium and platinum sputtered layers, and electroformed gold beam leads constitute the metallurgical structure of the devices described. Test transistors have survived 350°C aging for hundreds of hours in corrosive ambients, and centrifuging at 135,000 g's."
"A previous paper described a simple adjustment algorithm which could be employed to set the tap gains of a transversal filter for the equalization of data transmission systems. An automatic equalizer was shown which used this algorithm during a training period of test pulse transmission prior to actual data transmission. The present paper extends the utility of this automatic equalization system by permitting it to change settings during the data transmission period in response to changes in transmission channel characteristics. Three schemes for accomplishing this adaptive equalization without the use of test signals are described and evaluated analytically. The first such scheme uses periodic estimates of channel response based on the received data signal to adjust or update the transversal filter settings. The second system is entirely digital and employs a sequential testing procedure to make adjustments aperiodically as they are required by changing conditions. The third system uses information obtained from a forward-acting error correction system for the purposes of adaptive equalization. Of the three systems described, the second is not only theoretically superior, but is practically the simplest. Experimental results for this second system are described."
"A single equation governing the various properties encountered in propagation of Gaussian beams is discussed. These characteristics may be graphically presented on an impedance chart such as a Smith chart or in the form of normalized curves. The geometrical representations highlight the relation between Gaussian mode theory and geometrical optics formulas. The power coupling coefficient between two Gaussian modes suggests a complex mismatch coefficient whose geometrical representation is essentially the same as that of a complex reflection coefficient in transmission-line theory. Application of the Smith chart in determining a complex mismatch coefficient is illustrated by graphical solution of a beam-matching problem."
"Measurements of the propagation of infrared waves at 3.392μ and 3.508μ in clear weather have been carried out over a 2.6-km path of atmosphere at Holmdel, New Jersey. The measuring system employed antennas and detectors common to the two wavelengths. The excess attenuation at 3.392μ, after considering various corrections, is interpreted as absorption by methane in the atmosphere and has been found to be 5.5 (±0.5) db/km."
"A binary PCM regenerator must decide which of two signal states was transmitted. This decision is normally based on whether some particular voltage is above or below a certain threshold at some particular time. In a real regenerator, the voltage in question must differ from this threshold value by some finite amount in order to cause the device to respond properly. The purpose of this calculation is to examine the effect of this “dead zone” on the probability of error in a differentially coherent PSK system both in the case where the signal is limited in amplitude (after the noise is added) and when it is not. It is found that when the expected value of signal power, S, exceeds the threshold value, T, by more than 6 db and 10 db in the limited and unlimited cases, respectively, the effect on error probability is less than the effect of a 1-db degradation in signal-to-noise ratio. However, for smaller values of signal-to-threshold (S/T) the degradation becomes large. Numerical values for error probability as a function of signal-to-noise ratio are presented for S/T = ∞, 12, 9, 6, 4, and 3 db for both cases."
"Weakly focusing transparent media provide possible means for guided transmission of coherent light beams with relatively small loss. The scalar wave equation for the eigenmodes of propagation in such a medium is formally identical with Schroedinger's wave equation. Hence, the methods used in the solution of quantum-mechanical problems, such as the Wentzel-Kramers-Brillouin (WKB) approximation, are immediately applicable to this problem. Solutions for the eigenmodes and eigenvalues in the case of focusing in one dimension are given, and the Pöschl-Teller medium, whose index varies as n = n0 [1 − (α/2) tan2 ηx] is discussed in some detail. In addition, the relationship between the wave solutions and geometrical (ray) optics is examined."
"Holography, or wavefront reconstruction photography, was first demonstrated by Gabor1,2,3 over fifteen years ago, and it has been the subject of increased investigation over the last five years since the advent of lasers. Possible applications of holography suggest themselves in the fields of three-dimensional and multicolor television.4 Furthermore, the statistics and redundancy of the hologram of an image may be deliberately made quite different from those of the original image. This has obvious possibilities in encoding schemes for television transmission in general. In this communication we report a first experimental step in this direction, namely the successful transmission via television of a Fresnel type of hologram in which the original object was a transparency."
"Single axial mode operation of gas lasers may be achieved either by reducing the mirror separation, L, until the mode separation, c/2L, is comparable to the oscillation line width, Δva, or by using mode suppression or filtering techniques.1,2,3 When the line width exceeds ≍3 gc (as in an argon ion laser for example), L must be less than 5 cm for an unstabilized laser and less than 10 cm for a laser stabilized at line center.∗ Lasers of this length have several disadvantages, the most serious of which (in the case of ion lasers) results from the close proximity of the Brewster windows to the discharge. In the case of the 6328 Ā He-Ne laser, restricting the laser tube length to a few centimeters limits the available single axial mode output power to about 1 mw."
"In contrast to inherently broadband media, such as radio, TE01 waveguide, or guided coherent light, the attenuation of a coaxial cable increases rapidly with frequency. Thus, while for broadband media broadband transmission schemes (FM or PCM, for example) decrease the power required for a given channel capacity, they would seem to be ill-suited to coaxial cable. Idealized comparisons are made among digital systems which transmit pulses of various numbers of amplitudes or levels. These show multilevel digital pulse transmission or analog transmission to have greater channel capacity (in the sense of information theory) than digital pulse transmission. Practical difficulties or cost of instrumentation may, in particular instances, dictate the use of single-sideband frequency-division multiplex for efficient voice transmission or binary pulse transmission for efficient digital transmission. Multilevel pulse transmission is a possible alternative if problems of instrumentation can be overcome."
"Modulator requirements for an active electro-optic polarization switch to operate in a digital light deflector (DLD) are derived. It is shown that a simple capacity speed product of the form (capacity)1/2 × (address rate) ≦ (constant) × (driver power) can be derived for both linear and biased quadratic electro-optic modulator materials. The usefulness of this relation is demonstrated by applying it to a biased quadratic electro-optic material (KTN) and two linear electro-optic materials (LiNbO3 and ZnTe). The results indicate that KTN will operate a DLD at a rate of 106 random addresses/sec and a capacity of 106 addresses with a reactive power of 2.6 watts, a bias voltage of 1200 volts, and a driver voltage of 42 volts, provided, (i) fluctuations in the Curie temperature and ambient operating temperature are held to less than 0.01°C, (ii) some form of ac bias is used to circumvent space charge effects, and (iii) strain and defect-free material meeting these requirements can be grown to a size of at least 1 × 1 × 2 cm. A linear electro-optic material such as ZnTe with a reduced half-wave voltage (unity aspect ratio) in the 2 to 3-kV range (2.5 kV at 6000 Å) will provide 3.6 × 106 addresses at a rate of 106 addresses/sec with a reactive driver power of 10 watts, delivered at a drive voltage of 1250 volts. Experimental results obtained using KTN as a high-speed pulsed light modulator are also presented."
"We prove here the long conjectured fact that the regular simplex is the code of minimal error probability for transmission over the infinite-band Gaussian channel. The code is actually optimal for a rather wide class of assumed channel noises. We also establish the optimality of several other codes for the band-limited Gaussian channel."
"In contrast to payroll or inventory data, which must reach the recipient in its entirety, there is another class of data that includes radar-tracking data, remote-sensory data or control data, etc., for which the requirement of completeness is not so stringent. Error control for this class of data may be accomplished by forward-acting error-correcting codes which void or mark any detected errors that they do not correct. In order to evaluate these error-voiding methods, the error rates for such codes are estimated in this paper using the error statistics of the Alexander-Gryb-Nast study. A class of 18 (about 50 percent redundant) cyclic codes capable of correcting from one to five errors and having block lengths from 15 to 47 bits is examined. Only bounded-distance decoding is evaluated, but each code is assigned each possible decoding radius up to the maximum permissible radius determined by the capability of the code. Since interleaving generally reduces error rates, the error rates for this class of codes are estimated for interleaving constants from 50 to 300 in steps of 50. It is concluded that: (i) If voids are permissible (at a rate of about 10−4) then low undetected-error rates may be achieved by a code capable of correcting many errors but used to correct only two or three errors. Such a code might be about 50 percent redundant and have a block length between 25 and 50 bits. (ii) It is impractical to obtain low void rates. If voids are not tolerable, then retransmission is required to obtain low error rates. (iii) Interleaving is more effective with codes correcting three (or more) errors than with those correcting only single or double errors."
"The fluctuating envelope of the pulse-to-pulse radar echoes from a range cell consisting of a stationary target along with many independent, randomly moving scatterers is assumed to behave like a stationary Rayleigh process. In radar terminology this fluctuating or fading envelope of the pulse-to-pulse radar echoes is called signal plus clutter. The envelope of the pulse-to-pulse radar echoes may fade below some critical threshold level for a duration such that the performance of the radar becomes unsatisfactory. Theoretical approximations for the probability densities of both the duration of fades and the interval between fades of the underlying Rayleigh process are presented in graphs for various threshold levels and various signal-to-clutter power ratios. The corresponding exact results are at present unknown. The results of this paper apply to all other fields of science and technology for which a stationary Rayleigh process characterizes a fading phenomenon."
"Using the diagnostic data collected for the Morris Central Control malfunction dictionary, we devise a natural concept of “distances” between malfunctions. Ten thousand malfunctions were placed as points in six-dimensional space in such a way that the Euclidean interpoint distances approximately equaled the diagnostic “distances“. The remarkable fact that this is possible has many implications. By finding circuit characteristics common to a cluster of neighboring malfunctions, we are able to associate these characteristics with the region of the six-dimensional space which holds these malfunctions. By this means, we characterize various regions of space according to functional troubles. This suggests a technique for locating malfunctions and also suggests some longer-range possibilities."
"Gas lenses can be replaced by equivalent thin lenses. This paper shows a comparison between ray traiectories through 100 gas lenses and 100 equivalent thin lenses. The agreement is good enough to warrant the use of equivalent thin lenses for the study of the transmission properties of beam waveguides made of gas lenses."
"The concept of a thin lens equivalent to a gas lens is used to calculate distortions of off-axis Gaussian fields in beam waveguides composed of gas lenses. A computational method for the numerical solution of this problem based on the Kirchoff-Huygens diffraction integral is developed. It is shown that off-axis Gaussian fields deform considerably as they travel through a sequence of gas lenses. These deformations are substantial even though the lens distortions may be small. If the light beam deforms it is hard, if not impossible, to steer it back on-axis. This problem can be avoided if some means of beam redirection are used to keep the field on-axis, thus preventing the occurrence of significant beam deformation."
"An experimental digital repeatered line has been developed which transmits information at a rate of 224 Mb/s as part of an experimental highspeed digital transmission system. The PCM terminals and time division multiplex portions were described by J. S. Mayo and others in the November 1965 issue of the Bell System Technical Journal. The repeatered line is described in this paper. The performance of this line is shown to be suitable for coast-to-coast operation. The line utilizes 0.270-inch copper coaxial transmission lines and regenerative repeaters at one-mile intervals. Ten repeaters have been operated in tandem to form ten miles of repeatered line. Each repeater uses 25 transistors, most of them a new germanium design with a cutoff frequency, fi, of 4 GHz. Esaki diodes provide the decision thresholds for the regeneration. Power to the repeaters is supplied by dc over the center coaxial conductor. The pulse transmission code is paired selected ternary (PST)."
"Codes exist which are capable of correcting large numbers of random errors. Such codes are rarely used in practical data transmission systems, however, because the equipment necessary to realize their capabilities — that is, to actually correct the errors — is usually prohibitively complex and expensive. The problem of finding simply implemented decoding algorithms or, equivalently, codes which can be decoded simply with existing methods, is perhaps the outstanding unsolved problem in coding theory today. In this paper, a new class of random-error-correcting cyclic codes is defined. These codes have two very desirable features: the binary members of the class are nearly as powerful as the best-known codes in the range of interest, and they can be decoded with the simplest known decoding algorithm. Unfortunately there are relatively few codes with useful parameters in this class, despite the fact that the class is infinite."
"The concept of a difference-set cyclic code has been described previously. It was shown that such a code is almost as powerful as a Bose-Chaudhuri code and considerably simpler to implement. It is the purpose of this paper to determine some of the more important properties of this code and its dual code (cf. Sec. IV). It may be pointed out that the problems we consider are equivalent to determining certain properties of incidence matrices associated with a class of balanced incomplete block designs formed from simple difference sets."
"This paper presents two examples of the simultaneously orthogonal expansion of the sample functions of a pair of stationary Gaussian processes. The pair of Gaussian processes are specified by zero means and covariances exp (–α | s − t |), exp (– β | s − t |) in Example 1 and by 1 − | s − t | /2T, exp (– | s − t | /T) in Example 2. The expansion takes the form of a trigonometric series where the coefficients are mutually independent Gaussian variables for both processes, and the series converges, both with probability one for every t and in the stochastic mean uniformly in t, for both processes. This type of expansion is an extension of the Karhunen-Loéve expansion to the case of a pair of processes, and no concrete example has been given previously. The general theory of the orthogonal expansions is briefly reviewed in Section I, while concrete results for the two examples are tabulated in Section II with a brief outline of the method of derivation. The complete derivation, which constitutes the principal part of this paper, is presented in full detail in Appendices."
"Ideal curves of MOS capacity and surface potential are computed for silicon with oxide thickness and doping as a parameter. High-frequency and low-frequency capacity curves are presented for the doping ranges between 1 × 1014 and 1 × 1017 cm−3 and SiO2 thickness between 100 and 12000 Å. Additional curves give flatband capacitance, minimum capacitance and voltage of the minimum capacitance in the same ranges.∗"
"Analysis leading to a figure of merit for differential pulse code modulation (DPCM) systems with linear feedback networks is presented. It is shown that the figure of merit can be optimized. Simple DPCM has a 6-dB advantage in signal/quantizing noise ratio over pulse code modulation (PCM) for speech. Optimization yields at most 4 dB more. Computer simulation of the system using actual speech samples leads to data supporting the figure of merit as a useful measure of performance for DPCM systems with four digits or more. The simulation also provides data on the error spectrum as a function of quantizer loading and on the probability density of the quantizer input as a function of loading. Performance of the optimum system as a function of increasing feedback network complexity is also shown. Idle channel performance of a particular system is analyzed, indicating the presence of inband oscillations in many cases. The best quantizer bias from the point of view of idle channel performance is found. The level of idle channel noise in DPCM is shown to be approximately equivalent to that in PCM."
"This paper presents a stability criterion for distributed parameter and uniformly or nonuniformly sampled systems. Specifically, a finite algorithm is presented which tests whether all the zeros of a function of the form $F(s) = \\sum_{n=0}^N c_{n}e^{su_n}$ lie within the interior of the left half s-plane. Thus, the algorithm tests the stability of those systems whose system functions are ratios of finite sums of exponentials. Included in such systems are all distributed systems whose components are uniform, lossless transmission lines and all sampled systems with a periodically varying sampling rate."
"In 1964 tests were begun in which customers making transatlantic calls, to which varying amounts of delay had been added, were interviewed after call completion to determine the circuit quality. These tests were continued in 1965 using the Early Bird satellite which some customers used extensively before being interviewed. During this period a number of different echo suppressors were also tested. Results show that the quality of telephone circuits with echo suppressors decreases with increasing delay, that previous satellite calls have no effect on the customer's opinion of his present call, and that no echo suppressor was superior for all delays although some appear to be better for the longer delays."
"In 1960, the Eleventh General Conference on Weights and Measures proposed an International System of Units (designated SI System from Le Système International d'Unites) to be used when referring to physical quantities and concepts. This system was given official status in Resolution No. 12 of the General Conference when it was adopted by the 36 treaty nation members, including the United States. The SI System was adopted by the International Committee on Weights and Measures (the executive body of the General Conference) in 1962. Since then, leading professional societies, such as the American Institute of Physics (AIP), the Institute of Electrical and Electronic Engineers (IEEE), the American Society for Testing and Materials (ASTM), and other national and international organizations have adopted and are actively promoting the SI System of Units."
"The N3 carrier system development completes the second phase of a comprehensive design program to provide a new family of short-haul carrier facilities. The system includes a 24-channel, single-sideband, amplitude modulated multiplex terminal, a common carrier supply, and an N-repeatered line. Associated development effort was directed toward the provision of a shop-wired, double-bay framework to combine the carrier terminals, voice-frequency patching jacks, signaling equipment, and automatic trunk processing facilities in one equipment package. Design objectives were established to meet today's and future stringent transmission performance requirements for direct, toll-connecting, and intertoll trunks. Taking advantage of the rapid growth in solid-state technology, significant transmission performance improvements have been achieved over earlier vacuum tube systems. In addition, installation, operating, and maintenance procedures have all been simplified. The system can be economically applied for distances as short as 35 miles, and with satisfactory transmission performance for distances exceeding 200 miles. A feature of special note is the provision of frequency correction units within the carrier terminal which essentially eliminates the frequency shift error introduced by the N-repeatered line."
"In the circuit design of the N3 carrier terminal full use has been made of the advances in solid state art, crystal filter design techniques, and miniature ferrite transformer performance. Economies have been provided in power consumption, space requirements, and maintenance effort. Performance has been significantly improved over its predecessor the ON2 terminal in the areas of channel response, net loss stability, compandor tracking, and modulation distortion. Two concepts, new to the short-haul carrier field, have been employed in the N3 design. Frequency correction circuits are used to precisely correct for frequency shifts accumulated as the signal is transmitted over the N-repeatered line. A common carrier supply is utilized to provide extremely precise carriers economically for terminal use."
"This paper discusses the equipment aspects of the 24-channel N3 carrier terminals and associated common carrier supply. Arrangements of the carrier equipment, in shop-wired and tested packages with associated equipment, are described. The common carrier supply equipment is reviewed. Particular attention was given to those equipment features which have to do with reliability, economy, and installation and operating convenience. A variety of package arrangements are described and the numerous advantages resulting from the “shop-wired package” concept are explored. The equipment features of the plug-in units which are components of both carrier terminal and carrier supply are examined."
"SNOBOL3 is a programming language designed for the manipulation of strings. Features of the language include symbolic naming of strings and pattern matching. In addition to a basic set of primitive string-valued functions, the system includes the facility for defining functions. These defined functions facilitate the programming of recursive procedures. This paper presents an intuitive description of SNOBOL3 and at the same time incorporates complete reference material for the programmer. The implementation of SNOBOL3 for the IBM 7094 computer operating under BE-SYS-7 is the basis for this description, but most of the material is common to all implementations."
"Light scattering in a Fabry-Perot cavity by an acoustic beam is discussed. An heuristic treatment based on momentum conservation is used to determine the conditions, acoustic bandwidth and enhancement of the scattering interaction. A more detailed and rigorous calculation based on a coupled-mode formalism is also described. Experimental results using fused quartz Fabry-Perot cavities, single-frequency 6328 Å light and acoustic waves in the frequency range 200–500 Mc/s, are presented. Enhancement relative to single-pass scattering by a factor of 50 is easily achieved. Modulation depths of twenty-five percent with a bandwidth of several megacycles have been observed."
"A conceptually simple, block-coding feedback strategy which applies to all time-discrete, memoryless channels is introduced and examined. This strategy provides the first conclusive evidence of an improvement at nonzero rates in the reliability of block coding with feedback on the additive Gaussian noise channel. This result was previously observed by Berlekamp for the binary symmetric channel."
"Consider a noisy channel which acts as a high-pass filter on the pulses used for transmitting digital data in binary form. To combat the degradation of information in the channel, the pulses are detected and regenerated at certain points with the aid of a binary pulse regenerator with dc restoration. This device achieves complete restoration in the absence of noise. In this paper, we give a procedure for evaluating the limiting probabilities (after lengthy operation) of error patterns for a single dc restorer in the presence of independent, additive noise. The procedure is based on the observation that for the particular restorer in question, the effective noise in the restorer is the sum of the present noise and the accumulated noise. The latter may be described by a Markovian process."
"An output of 250 mW CW at 12 GHz with an efficiency of 2.8 percent was obtained from an Si PvN diode."
"A Note on a Type of Optimisation Problem that Arises in Communication Theory, by I. W. Sandberg, B.S.T.J., 45, May–June, 1966, pp. 761–764."
"The effects of transmission delay upon the performance of a three-party teleconference were investigated using a problem-oriented task. The teleconference was simulated in the laboratory using 4-wire telephone sets interconnected to form a three-party conference network without echo sources or echo control devices. The two experimental conditions were characterized by (a) a network whose three legs provided transmission delays of 600-milliseconds, 300-milliseconds and no delay, and (b) a network each of whose three legs provided no transmission delay. It was found that: (i) time to complete the experimental task was 28 percent greater in the delay condition than in the no-delay condition, (ii) the error rate was less in the delay condition than in the no-delay condition, (iii) time-per-trial decreased with successive trials in both delay conditions; time-per-trial was less in the no-delay condition than in the delay condition, and (iv) no chairmanship pattern developed as a result of time delay in the network. Moreover, not one of the subjects reported having observed the existence of delay in the voice path. There were, however, more complaints of “talking together” in the delay condition."
"A control scheme for synchronizing the frequencies of geographically separated oscillators connected by communication links consists of averaging the phases received at each station from remote oscillators, comparing the result with the local phase, and applying the filtered error signal as a correction to the local oscillator frequency. The system was studied by V. E. Beneš who found a sufficient condition for the stability of the system using advanced mathematical techniques. In this paper, the stability condition is derived (for a slightly more general control scheme) using only the transfer function concept of linear systems and some properties of determinants. A practical difficulty regarding the final frequency of the oscillators is discussed and a modification of the control scheme is shown to alleviate the difficulty. Also examined are the questions of sensitivity to parameter changes, the effect of jitter noise on the performance of the system, and the effect of failure of an oscillator or transmission link."
"Organic synchronization is a method for the mutual synchronization of a set of geographically separated clocks. It is applicable to pulse code modulation (PCM) communications networks and to other systems which have similar requirements for synchronism. After a brief review and history of the problem, a model for organic synchronization is developed. A control-independent study of possible equilibrium solutions is then carried out. A special class of controls is shown to provide asymptotic stability in the limiting case of zero delays. This result leads heuristically to the synthesis of a broad class of nonlinear controls. With these controls, the systems are represented by families of nonlinear differential-functional equations. This model provides a basis for the simulation of organic synchronization. Broad conditions which are mathematically sufficient for the stability of the nonlinear systems are not yet known. The final frequencies of a linear subclass of organic systems, known to be stable, are examined."
"The synchronization of large systems of geographically separated oscillators is of considerable practical interest for pulse code modulation (PCM) switching. This study examines the factors that determine the frequency at which such a system operates, considering both the procedure by which it is set up and the topology of system interconnections. A necessary and sufficient connectivity condition is established."
"Two noise contributors in FM systems are: (i) intermodulation noise due to transmission deviations; and (ii) intermodulation noise due to transmission deviations and AM/PM conversion, designated AM/PM intermodulation noise. Expressions for the second- and third-order AM/PM intermodulation noise are derived in terms of transmission medium coefficients and a continuous pre-emphasis characteristic, with the unpre-emphasized baseband signal being simulated by white Gaussian noise. These expressions have been programmed on a digital computer and representative noise responses and properties of AM/PM intermodulation noise were obtained. General properties and characteristics for the two noise contributors are documented in parallel for comparative purposes. It was found that AM/PM intermodulation noise can be a significant noise contributor in FM systems."
"This paper presents a principle of orthogonal multiplexing for transmitting a number of data messages simultaneously through a linear band-limited transmission medium at a maximum data rate without interchannel and intersymbol interferences. A general method is given for synthesizing an infinite number of classes of band-limited orthogonal time functions in a limited frequency band. Stated in practical terms, the method permits the synthesis of a large class of practical transmitting filter characteristics for an arbitrarily given amplitude characteristic of the transmission medium. Rectangular-shaped ideal filters are not required. The synthesis procedure is convenient. Furthermore, the amplitude and the phase characteristics of the transmitting filters can be synthesized independently. Adaptive correlation reception can be used for data processing, since the received signals remain orthogonal no matter what the phase distortion is in the transmission medium. The system provides the same signal distance protection against channel noises as if the signals of each channel were transmitted through an independent medium and intersymbol interference in each channel were eliminated by reducing data rate."
"The avalanche region of an IMPATT (IMPact ionization Avalanche Transit Time) diode under small signal conditions is characterized by the fraction of the total alternating current that is carried by holes and electrons in their respective drift spaces and by a residual impedance. The current fractions are roughly in phase with the total current below, and nearly 180° out of phase above a resonance frequency that is proportional to the square root of direct current density. This paper extends the calculations of Gilden and Hines for the current fraction to include phase shifts in the avalanche region so that extended avalanche regions can be considered. Realistic values (α ≠ β in Si) for the ionization coefficients are used. Results of detailed numerical calculations for the current fractions as a function of frequency and direct current density are presented. For typical frequencies and current densities, the residual impedance is negligible and hole and electron current fractions are equal. The avalanche region at a given frequency and current density is then characterized by one complex number and the admittance of a diode containing the avalanche region and adjacent drift regions is easily calculated. Plots showing the admittance as a function of frequency and current density for typical structures are given. It is found that an optimal exponential growth rate of oscillations is obtained when the current density is such that the resonance frequency is about equal to one half the reciprocal transit time through the longest drift region. If the assumption is made that conditions giving the largest small-signal exponential growth rate give the best large-signal performance, an optimum Read-diode design is obtained for which the avalanche region width is a substantial fraction (≍ 1/3) of the drift region width."
"In the theory of telephone traffic it is of interest to compare the performance of connecting networks, as measured by the probability by blocking, when they are subjected to the same traffic sources. The question arises whether there are examples of pairs of networks, with the same number of cross-points, whose respective graphs of loss as a function of offered load cross each other. The existence of such examples would establish the principle that some network configurations are inherently more efficient at some traffic levels than at others, so that the “excellence” of a network is not necessarily a purely combinatorial notion independent of offered traffic. Examples of the above phenomenon are exhibited which do not involve only very small networks."
"This paper describes a new method for displaying holograms in white light. The method gives reasonably good reconstructions although certain image defects are inherent in the method. It differs from previously reported methods of white light reconstruction1,2 in that the whole spectrum is used for reconstruction and therefore black and white reconstructions can be obtained. The method does not depend on the volume properties of the photographic emulsion."
"Recently, Zador1 gave a clever functional iteration procedure for determining the error probability in a binary regenerative repeater with quantized feedback. Unfortunately, quantitative results for the long pulse sequences of interest are difficult to come by due to the prohibitive amount of computer time required to carry out the iterations. We have found a simple approximate procedure that breaks the computational bottle-neck in all cases of practical interest. The crux of our approach is the approximation of the functional iteration by a difference equation. For clarity, we use only a few terms of a Taylor series in establishing the difference equation approximation. More terms can be used to obtain a better approximation if needed."
"Long-haul voice communication has long been subject to the problem of returned echo. The advent of synchronous satellite communication introduces increased delay as a degrading factor in the overall quality of two-way conversation. This compounds the problem in that the echo"
"Conventional echo suppressors combat echoes generated at hybrid junctions in long distance telephone connections by interrupting the return path according to some decision scheme based upon the relative levels of the outgoing and return signals. In this brief, a new device is described for cancelling the echo without interrupting the return path. We call this device an echo canceller to distinguish it from conventional echo suppressors. It generates a replica of the echo (which is then subtracted from the return signal) by synthesizing a linear approximation to the echo transmission path. It is self-adapting in that it automatically tracks variations in the echo path which may arise during a telephone conversation (e.g., connection or disconnection of extension phones, etc.)."
"Digital computer simulation of communication systems is accomplished readily by means of the system-oriented programming language called BLODIB (for BLOck DIagram Compiler, B). The language is designed for programming sampled-data systems which may be represented either in block diagram form or in the mathematical representation of the z-transform calculus. Contained within the language are 40 basic “building” blocks from which an entire communication system can be built. In addition, new blocks may be defined as consisting of complex configurations of basic blocks. The structure of BLODIB allows convenient specification of system parameters as well as permitting these parameters to be varied in order to study changes in system performance. The use of BLODIB is demonstrated by its application in the simulation of a voice-coding (vocoder) system."
"Shannon's celebrated formula W ln(1 + Po/NoW) for the capacity of a time-continuous communication channel with bandwidth W cps, average signal power Po, and additive Gaussian noise with flat spectral density No has never been justified by a coding theorem (and “converse”). Such a theorem is necessary to establish W ln(1 + Po/NoW) as the supremum of those transmission rates at which one may communicate over this channel with arbitrarily high reliability as the coding and decoding delay becomes large. In this paper, a number of physically consistent models for this time-continuous channel are proposed. For each model the capacity is established as W ln(1 + Po/NoW) by means of a coding theorem and converse."
"A new insertion loss, phase and delay measurement tool has been developed for characterizing gigacycle bandwidth transistors and general two-port networks on a small signal basis over a frequency range from 0.25 to 4.2 gc. Maximum inaccuracies are 0.1 db, 0.6 degree (over a 40-db loss range), and 0.5 nanosecond (over a 20-db loss range). Above 2.0 gc, the errors may double. The particular parameters selected for measurement are closely related to the scattering coefficients of the device under test, evaluated with respect to a 50-ohm impedance level. When measuring transistors, measurement data are corrected for the residuals of jig and bias fixtures. Transformation from the measured parameters to other sets (e.g., h, y, or z matrices) is routine. In order to minimize “instrument zero-line” and eliminate errors from circuit drift, a rapid sampling technique sequentially compares the unknown with a high-frequency reference. Measurement accuracy is held substantially independent of test signal frequency by heterodyning the measurement information to a fixed IF, where detection is performed by “IF substitution”, using adjustable standards of loss, phase, and delay. Substantial use of automatic control circuitry contributes to an easy and facile interface between machine and operator. This paper discusses the operation and design of the test set and its use as a tool in characterizing transistors."
"The weight distribution of the code vectors of a binary group code has been referred to as the spectrum of the code. This paper presents a technique for calculating the spectrum of such a code, the spectra of shortened codes obtainable from the code, and what are defined as the level weight structures of the code. The method is conceptually straightforward and readily adaptable to digital computers. It involves operations no more complex than the addition of two (n − k)-tuples, the determination of the weight of certain (n − k)-tuples, and the ordinary addition of certain integers. Its computational complexities are independent of the code parameters. In principle, it may be used for any binary group code, but it is particularly useful for codes in which the number of parity check positions per code vector is rather small although the number of information positions may be large."
"The effects of variations in the components of a beam waveguide are considered. These variations statistically cause the Gaussian beam spot size of the light propagating down the waveguide to grow and cause the beam center to oscillate about the waveguide axis with ever-increasing amplitude. Random variations in lens focal length and spacing and random lateral lens displacements are considered. It is also shown how random variations in focal length and spacing can be included in the published analyses for short random bends in the waveguide axis. When the number of lenses is large, it is shown that the beam displacement and beam spot size both grow exponentially with distance. As an example, a confocal waveguide with lenses spaced one meter apart and built to somewhat optimistic tolerances will require a beam redirector every 2.5 kilometers to prevent the beam oscillations from exceeding an rms value of 2 millimeters."
"The applicability of the Pontryagin maximum principle to signal-noise ratio maximization is explored. Attention is focused on the reformulation of the problem so that the maximum principle may be used. The basic aspect of the reformulation is to cast the problem into the form of differential equations instead of integral equations. Two problems are solved. The first, a variation of the matched filter problem, could have been solved by other methods. However, the maximum principle provided a very neat and systematic approach. The second problem, signal design with both an energy and an amplitude constraint imposed on the signal, is solved numerically. It appears to be intractable by other methods. One of the advantages of the maximum principle formulation is that, by working with differential equations rather than with integral equations, numerical techniques may be more easily used."
"For 173 years since the Coinage Act of 1792, United States subsidiary coinage has contained 90 per cent silver. During the last decade, an increasing unbalance between supply and demand has jeopardized the availability of silver and made it necessary to consider alternative coinage materials. Because present coin-handling mechanisms are designed to discriminate between coinage and spurious materials, it is necessary to identify the functional properties of coins so that a compatible material system may be proposed. Compatibility is established by considering such items as weight, resistivity, diameter, thickness, wear, scrap, composition, coinability, corrosion and color. One alloy and four laminated metal systems, varying in silver content from 70 to 0 per cent, were found which satisfy the compatibility requirements. This paper discusses the design considerations for compatibility and proposes five metal systems which meet these considerations."
"The theoretical capabilities of a “polyphase” coding-modulation scheme with additive white Gaussian noise are studied. The channel capacity of this system is found and the error exponent estimated. Bounds are also found on Ro(ρmax), the maximum (asymptotic) rate for which polyphase codes can be found with maximum correlation between code words ρmax."
"A class of binary block codes capable of simultaneous correction of additive errors and synchronization errors is presented. This class of codes consists of coset codes of binary cyclic or shortened cyclic codes, and retains the implementation advantages of binary cyclic codes. In most cases, the redundancy required to provide additive-error correction is sufficient to give synchronization-error correction so that no additional redundant bits are required. Synthesis procedures to construct such codes are also presented, along with an upper bound on the number of synchronization errors which can be corrected by codes in this class."
"Considerations are given to the use of a multiwavelength light source in the digital light deflector for the purpose of increasing the memory capacity of the system. An increase of a factor of twenty or more is theoretically possible when potassium tantalate niobate (KTN) is used for the optical switches in the digital light deflector. Practical considerations may, however, limit the increase to about a factor of ten."
"For problems concerning the transmission of video signals, it is often desirable to know the statistical distribution of power in the frequency domain for the signal process. It is convenient to have a model, involving only a few essential parameters, which will satisfactorily characterize the power spectral density of the random video signal. This paper proposes a model for the random picture and derives expressions for second-order statistical properties of the video signal obtained from a conventional scanning operation on the picture. The properties of typical picture material make valid certain approximations which lead to especially simple, closed-form expressions for power spectral density. The continuous part of the power spectral density is expressed as a product of three factors, characterizing separately the influence of point-to-point, line-to-line, and frame-to-frame correlation. For parameters representative of typical picture material there is observed an extreme concentration of power near multiples of the line scan and frame scan rates. An illustrative example of the use of the model in an optimum linear filtering problem is included."
"Cascaded structures play a major role in many signal processing and signal propagating systems. The universality of such structures is particularly evident when the signals are of a wave nature, i.e., the components of the structure are representable by transmission lines rather than lumped elements. Transmission media with discontinuities are examples of such structures. Other examples include integrated, microwave, and optical circuits. Theory of distributed structures has, so far, been successfully developed only for structures whose components are lossless (or RC) transmission lines of equal electrical lengths. It is the purpose of this paper to present a theory of cascaded structures when the component elements are lossless transmission lines of arbitrary electrical lengths. Extensions of the theory developed here to other structures will be discussed in a subsequent paper."
"Electron phase contrast images with a resolution of at least 2 Å have been obtained using a modified commercial electron microscope. A “phase column” approximation for interpreting such images is briefly discussed and applied to images of graphite, evaporated carbon, and a synthetic polypeptide. Hexagonal features about 5 Å in diameter are attributed to the graphite unit cell imaged by the six first-order prism plane reflections. The image so produced is a next-nearest neighbor representation."
"Color images have been obtained by wavefront reconstruction from a reflection volume hologram illuminated with ordinary white light. The hologram was recorded with coherent light at two wavelengths, 6328 Å and 4880 Å, from helium-neon and argon-ion lasers, respectively. Fig. 1 shows the white-light reconstructed image from such a hologram; the original subject was a color transparency. The hologram was formed in Kodak 649F emulsion."
"This paper describes the design and discusses the performance of the TM-1 and TL-2 radio relay systems designed for short haul service in the 5925 to 6425 megacycle and the 10,700 to 11,700 megacycle common carrier bands, respectively. Used as a crossband diversity pair, they provide a highly reliable broadband message channel for up to 600 circuits and require little maintenance and relatively low power. These systems are also used to transmit television."
"A low-loss transmission medium for optical frequencies consisting of a thin-wall dielectric tube that separates an internal high-density gas from an external low-density gas is proposed. Approximate transmission characteristics of the coaxial structure are derived via the analysis of a two-dimensional model. The multiple dielectric guide behaves similarly to a dielectric waveguide, and the fundamental mode attenuation due to losses in the solid tube is calculated to be small even at the worst possible choice of the tube wall thickness. Assuming (i) an internal diameter of 5×10−4 m, (ii) wall thickness of 10−5 m, (iii) loss in the solid dielectric of 1 neper/m, and (iv) internal and external gases, CO2 and air, respectively, both at 20 atmospheres, the theoretical attenuation for the fundamental mode is of the order of 0.05 db/km and the attenuation of each mode is roughly four times smaller than that of the next higher one."
"In a beam-waveguide, wanted and unwanted lens displacements from a straight line cause the beam propagating in either direction to depart severely from the guide axis. By including beam redirectors at each lens, it is shown that it is possible to reduce those displacements by amounts which depend (i) on the relative position of the lens where the beam deflection is sampled and of the redirector into which that information is fed, and (ii) on whether redirectors are sensitive to one or both directions of propagation. If transmission takes place in one direction only, it is better to place each redirector before its deflection sampling point (feed-forward control). If transmission occurs in both directions, it is advantageous to place each redirector after its deflection sampling point (feed-back control)."
"Quantizing noise in delta modulation systems falls into two categories, granular noise and slope overload noise. Granular noise exists because the decoded output signal can assume only a specified number of levels in the range of interest. Slope overload noise occurs when the slope of the input signal is greater than the delta modulator is capable of reproducing. When the S/N ratio is not too small, the noise power from these two sources is additive. A formula for the slope overload noise power for Gaussian input signals is derived. This is used with an earlier result for the granular noise to give over-all signal-to-quantizing-noise ratios. It is shown by computer simulation that the assumptions employed in deriving these signal-to-quantizing-noise ratios are valid and that the analytical results provide good estimates of the true values of these ratios. Computer simulation of the Picturephone∗ visual telephone, a low-bandwidth television system, illustrates that the formulas derived for Gaussian signals apply quite well to video signals. Estimates are given for the S/N ratios theoretically possible when a 4.5-mc monochrome television signal is transmitted by delta modulation. The characteristics of delta modulation quantizing noise may cause it to be subjectively less annoying than an equivalent amount of additive Gaussian noise."
"This paper describes a phase principle for detecting a weak, narrow-band Gaussian signal in the presence of receiver noise. The phase principle leads to a phase detector which performs 2.5 db worse than the time-honored square-law detector when gain fluctuations are negligible. However, when gain fluctuations are significant the phase detector can perform better than the square-law detector. The phase principle can be implemented by using radio interferometer type receivers or mono-pulse radar-type receivers."
"Sequential decoding is a technique for encoding and decoding at moderate cost with a decoding reliability which approximates that of the optimum, and expensive, maximum-likelihood decoder. The several known sequential decoding algorithms enjoy a cost advantage over the maximum-likelihood decoder because they allow the level of the channel noise to regulate the level of the decoding computation. Since the average level of the required decoding computation for sequential decoders is small for source rates below a rate Rcomp, such a decoder can be realized for these rates with a relatively small logic unit and a buffer. The logic unit is normally designed to handle computation rates which are less than two or three times the average computation rate; the buffer serves to store data during those noisy periods when the required computation rate exceeds the computation rate of the logic unit. If the periods of high computation, which are caused by noise, are too frequent or too long, the buffer, which is necessarily finite in capacity, will fill and overflow. Since data are lost during an overflow, continuity in the decoding process cannot be maintained. The decoder, then, cannot continue to decode without error. For this reason, buffer overflow is an important event. In addition, since errors in the absence of overflow are much less frequent than are overflows themselves, the overflow event is of primary concern in the design of a sequential decoder. This paper presents some recent analytical results concerning the probability of a buffer overflow. In particular, it is shown that this probability is relatively insensitive to both the buffer capacity and the maximum speed of the logic unit for moderate capacities and speeds. By contrast, it is shown that the overflow probability decreases rapidly with a decrease in the source"
"The displacement amplitudes and the phase angles of vertically vibrating rigid circular plates on an elastic isotropic homogeneous half-space have been expressed in terms of the mass of the plate, the static spring constant multiplied by a frequency-dependent function, and a damping term. The results have been modified to apply to vibrating soil-foundation systems. The effects of hysteresis damping, nonlinear load-deflection characteristics of soils, the static prepressure, the change of soil properties with depth, and the difference between static and dynamic stress-strain relations of soils have been considered. The mathematical model has been compared with data on vibrations of circular foundations. The agreement between the model and the experimental data for cohesive soils is very good."
"The following group of medical papers is assembled for the Journal from the papers programs of the Society's 98th (Fall 1965) and 99th (Spring 1966) Technical Conferences. The Society's strong attention to this subject appears to have started with a breakthrough in 1960 when the subject was included in the sessions of the Fifth International Congress on High-Speed Photography. The Society's meetings and Journal have long welcomed the interests of medical cinematography, cineradiography, etc., but only in recent years has there been a sustained effort for effective integration of the medical sciences and research with photography in SMPTE programs. At the 94th Conference (Fall 1963) in Boston, there were three complete sessions of medical papers, films and lectures; from these sessions and sessions of the 95th, 96th and 97th Conferences have come two groups of papers already published. — These groups of papers emphasize the great advances in the application of photography, television technology and allied arts to medical science. Our thanks go to the large group of medical men and their sponsors for these presentations describing their accomplishments and concerns.—Roxanne O'Mally Ray"
"Patterns of skin temperatures may be correlated with inflammatory disorders, circulatory disorders, and subsurface malignant tumors. Suitable surface temperature mapping techniques are, therefore, of great medical value. A new system employs heat-quenched ultraviolet sensitive phosphors. Life-size temperature images are displayed on a television monitor. The essence of the problem and the aim of the project is the clear display of areas differing very slightly in brightness with enhanced contrast and minimum noise."
"Medical application of a TV camera together with an x-ray image-intensifier tube requires highest sensitivity and automatic adaptation to different x-ray doses. Maximum sensitivity of the special x-ray TV system has been obtained by imaging of the circular picture on the whole of the also circular target of the vidicon or Plumbicon with the aid of a large-aperture lens. Overscanning the target necessitates a circular blanking signal. The transistor circuit generating this signal is described with emphasis on stability problems. Automatic sensitivity control is effected by light-dependent resistors in the video amplifier. The control voltage is obtained by measuring the peak value of the signal either over the whole of the picture or in a central circular area only."
"Experimental coronary occlusion formerly depended on either open chest techniques or dissemination of minute foreign particles in the blood stream. In the new method, a radio-opaque sphere is placed in the coronary artery of intact dogs, under cinefluorographic control. The occlusion of this vessel is performed under anesthesia by way of selective catheterization of the left coronary artery. Following a preliminary visualization, the catheter is removed and a sphere of the appropriate size is impaled on its tip. This instrument is then guided under image intensifier fluoroscopy into the coronary artery and lodged in place. Coronary arteriograms are performed immediately after the occlusion. This method has already demonstrated its value in studies of coronary vasomobility, in the serial observation of collateral development and is being utilized in detecting the influence of various surgical and/or medical therapy upon the natural history of acute coronary occlusion."
"Industrial-type vidicon television cameras and image-orthicon television readouts from intensified flouoroscopic images provides a production system for instructional video tapes. These can be used for demonstration or teaching of fluoroscopic-examination techniques without the hazard of radiation to the observer, and without crowding the examination room."
"To simplify the process of taking motion pictures through a proctoscope, a new type of camera support was designed to make the camera virtually weightless and free-moving in the doctor's hands. A fiber-optics bundle is utilized to bring the light from the light source to the proctoscope tube."
"An EKG machine, oscilloscope and TV camera are linked so that a patient's abnormal cardiac events can automatically provide synchronized video-tape recordings of the patient's clinical appearance and electrocardiogram."
"In a television plant, Technical Operations is frequently asked to provide facilities for handling programs involving the integration of combinations of film, video tape, live and outside or field program sources. In order to avoid picture disturbances when switching to these various program sources, horizontal and vertical synchronization must be maintained between the sources at all times. In-plant-timing, genlock, audlok, frequency standard lock, and standards conversion are all methods and procedures used to realize this synchronization both in color and black-and-white television."
"EVolutionary OPerations (EVOP) is a manufacturing operation system, the goals of which are to produce an acceptable product at minimum cost; and to secure information from the process which will lead to optimum operation. The EVOP system involves making very small changes in process variables by statistical design. A photographic processor is used as an example, the variables being machine speed and developer temperature."
"The first Fastax camera was developed in 1934. Since that time a variety of rotating-prism cameras in different forms, and for various applications, has stemmed from this development. Some developed independently and others as variations of the original camera. The historical background of the rotating-prism camera goes back to 1932 when the Eastman ERPI Type 2 was acquired by Bell Telephone Laboratories. A number of well-known scientists have been involved in various aspects of photography at exotic speeds, i.e., in the time band of less than 1 μs."
"The Space Research Institute of McGill University is engaged in two major projects, the gun-launching of vehicles to carry out scientific studies of the upper atmosphere, and the design of a protection system to minimize the chances of the failure of a space vehicle due to meteoroid impact. This paper describes the high-speed photographic equipment, including smear, framing, image converter and x-ray cameras, and their applications to our projects."
"Outstanding underwater pictures are now possible with recently improved equipment, material and techniques. The physical properties of water as a transmission medium and the problems they introduce are analyzed. By careful consideration of these factors in the choice of lens, emulsions, filters, supplemental lighting, pressurized cases, etc., high-performance systems can be obtained economically. Subjective considerations of the desired color balance are also explored."
"The color photometer for printer control applications has a compact probe fitting into the jaw of Bell & Howell and Peterson printers. It has an adapter for use with optical printers; and it uses selenium photovoltaic cells, selected for minimum fatigue. The position of a five-aperture filter slide is indicated by a coded disc. Readings are taken either with portable microammeters or with meters mounted on the printer."
"To increase efficiency and reliability, a new high-speed continuous printer with additive color control has been developed. This printer prints picture and sound in forward and reverse directions. A new type of reader with solid-state circuitry makes light changes possible in less than half the scene length of the Model C printer, despite the new, higher printing speed of 240 ft/min. Several safety devices are provided to prevent film losses due to operator errors in film threading or tape handling."
"A device has been developed that makes it much easier to operate some manually controlled printers, by enabling pre-selection of shutter apertures in a fast and positive way, thus making it unnecessary to rely upon the visual interpretation of light-change program cards under safe light conditions."
"A successful agitation system in deep-tank film processes must cause the solution to move uniformly at a desired energy level and must adequately and uniformly supply fresh solution to the emulsion surface. A theoretical and practical investigation of a film strand moving through a processing solution has shown that the boundary layer between film and solution is laminar for all practical processing speeds. Laboratory tests have indicated that density nonuniformity caused by poor or insufficient agitation can be improved by the proper use of submerged nozzles. This work was made possible by a technique developed in the Kodak Research Laboratories, in which the by-products of development can be observed as they are formed. Hydroquinone sulfonate, a principal by-product of development, fluoresces when excited by ultraviolet light, producing a fluorescent layer of material on the emulsion surface, which visually shows the effect of any disturbance caused by the agitation mechanism."
"In pickup devices for color TV the light has to be split into three components. This can be done quite satisfactorily by means of interference layers having a color selective reflecting action. There are various ways by which these layers can be incorporated in an optical system. Considerations that enter into the design of beam splitting systems are explained and an attractive new color-splitting device designed for Plumbicon color cameras is described. Because of its compactness the system can be combined directly with various types of zoom lenses avoiding all kinds of optical relay systems. Several phenomena, such as polarization effects, ghost images and flare, which can deteriorate the picture quality seriously, are greatly reduced."
"In order to guarantee phase-coherent splicing of pilot-frequency controlled tape in post-synchronization, a new device generates simultaneously both a pilot frequency of 50 Hz and an audible signal of 2,000 Hz in 50-Hz pulses, which is recorded on the tape during the leader part of the picture loop. This signal is created by projecting a vertical bar pattern of the picture leader onto scanning photodiodes. It is phase-coherent with the pilot frequency and serves as a signal for locating the splicing point."
"A Series of articles and reports of discussions published in the Russian journal Tekhnika Kino i Televideniya show that conversion to wide-screen pictures is far from complete in the USSR, although it appears that the attractiveness of wide screens has led to an acceptance of their introduction as a national goal. Discussion continues on the formats, production methods and theater changes by which progress can be made within the practical limits facing the industry."
"Fifty Years Ago this July, our Society embarked on the long, continuous road of writing and maintaining technical standards for the motion-picture industry. The original handful of engineers has now grown into an organization of well over 6,500 members, whose scope has been expanded to include television. The standardization process today is confined to a group of about three hundred specialists, who work through ten Engineering Committees under the supervision of the Engineering Vice-President, Dr. Deane R. White of E. I. du Pont de Nemours & Co. Each project initiated by these groups is reviewed in a broader manner by the Standards Committee, which is composed of the Chairmen of each Engineering Committee and headed by Bill Wintringham of Bell Telephone Laboratories. The members of this Committee study the proposal in terms of possible conflicts with engineering practices within their own area of responsibility. The proposal then proceeds to one of the two Society-sponsored Sectional Committees of ASA-PH22 on motion pictures, under the chairmanship of Bob Birr of General Electric, or C98 on video-tape recording, chaired by Frank Gillette of General Precision Laboratory."
"In June 1966, the Dept. of State held the First National Foreign Policy Conference for Educators in an effort to encourage creative effort for improving the international aspects of education we are providing our own people. The Society can become an important cog in this program, and this is evidenced in part by the papers which are frequently presented at our semiannual Conferences or published in the Journal. International flavor is apparent when we read or hear a paper such as “Motion Pictures and Education in Eastern Europe,” when we participate in the international congresses on high-speed photography, send a Society delegate to the First International Congress on Photography and Film in Industry and Technology (this fall in Cologne), and exchange delegates with Russia on motion-picture techniques. Our international contributions to education are also emphasized by the Journal's continued publication of abstracts and foreign languages. — Our Society contributions to international education cannot be limited to papers written specifically for or called “education.” What we do in engineering to develop our own techniques, people, or resources is also the measure of our continuing contribution to international education. Although most SMPTE papers are not aimed at any foreign policy, the monthly Journals become U.S. representation in the technology of motion pictures, television, instrumentation, and—with increasing importance—photographic science. — In general, we are ambassadors—through our Journal and by international participation of individuals and Society delegations—to the culture of the world, including our assimilation of foreign efforts into our own national culture. We are thus in support of the State Dept. goal of a creative effort for world-wide education, which, in part, can be considered part of our educational goal. —Max Beard"
"Film systems can greatly reduce requirements for computer memory capacity and operations in automatic checkout equipment. They can also carry binary code data for interlock between the test step description on film and the test routine in a computer. The five dry-process film systems outlined can record, process and project individual frames in less than two seconds. Three of the films are erasable. Some features of computer-operated checkout systems are also useful in educational technology. A narrow-band (240-kHz) audio-visual transmission and sound filmstrip record is proposed as an alternative to educational television."
"Use of audio-visual equipment designed specifically for individual self-instruction should be more widespread. Available units generally cannot be adapted to changing requirements and may restrict the selection of the most suitable method of presentation. A versatile system of interconnecting modules accommodates various visual and audio media and provides for student response and other functions."
"The availability of audio and visual instructional resources suggests a multimedia approach to the development and implementation of new teaching techniques utilizing a combination of multiple image projection, closed-circuit television and live demonstrations. The roles of technologists and media specialists in the development of an effective educational program are of great importance."
"The engineer's relation to the nation's most important single business — education — and the kind of orientation which the engineer should have to fill his increasingly important role in that business are discussed. If the engineer and the educator are to communicate effectively each must have the ability to approach the same problem with complete understanding of the other's requirements and potential contributions."
"In the last decade the majority of high schools have integrated 16mm motion pictures into their physics and chemistry courses. These films show concepts which are too large, too small, too difficult, too remote or too expensive to show otherwise. This program presents a challenge and an opportunity to meet the educational demand for projection which is easy, convenient and foolproof. The uses of motion pictures are constantly increasing."
"McGraw-Hill's concern is for providing new and better audio-visual media for education. John Maurer's breakthrough on 8mm optical sound is described. A discussion follows of McGraw-Hill's cooperation in developing the sound films with John Maurer, the 8mm sound projector with Viewlex, and the printing of 8mm optical sound with the laboratories. The release and promotion of the 8mm package, experiences to date, and plans for the future are also discussed."
"Clinical use of 8mm film is proposed whenever the depiction of motion is of prime importance. Most clinical situations can be adequately photographed on 8mm film, the small format's advantages being sufficient for economical, limited production and use. Equipment requisites and some problems encountered in establishing 8mm production units are presented with a discussion of the applications of super 8 and other 8mm formats to the biomedical sciences for educational, research, and record purposes."
"Motion pictures are playing an increasingly important role in the educational scene in the USSR and Poland (as well as in the rest of the world). Photography, photographic instrumentation and instructional motion pictures now have an important place in higher education in these two countries and significant increases may be expected at all levels. Although the training of professional filmmakers follows a path separate from that of academic education, many trained individuals become involved with the production of information and education films."
"The practical and philosophical aspects of testing TV camera tubes are discussed. Methods used in manufacturing and operations are described for the main performance parameters such as sensitivity, signal-to-noise ratio, resolution, gamma and spectral response. Various difficulties associated with the different types of broadcasting requirements are illustrated."
"The illuminator provides a luminous 8- by 10-in. screen for the purpose of illuminating test pattern transparencies. The brightness is continuously variable over the range of 25 to 250 fL. The uniformity of brightness is better than 5% and the color temperature of the illumination remains constant at any brightness setting in the operating range. It is now used in all major production studios of the CBC to illuminate precision-made photographic transparencies, supplanting the reflectance chart for routine studio TV camera alignment. — Recently developed improvements in the design make possible a controlled screen brightness of up to 1,200 fL."
"Television waveforms may be displayed directly on the screen of a normally operating picture monitor through use of a combination of sampling and pulse position modulation techniques. Advantages of this approach include significant reductions in power, size and weight requirements, simplified analysis of the relative brightness of individual picture elements, and the ability to achieve the equivalent of “line-selection” at TV field rates."
"The need for provision for interconnection of stations was foreseen early in television. The general nature of the steps by which long-haul (particularly wire) communication circuits were adapted to television signals is considered. In an historical survey these points are reviewed: (1) the legacy of telegraph and picture transmission arts, (2) general picture quality, (3) securing the bandwidth, (4) modulation and intermodulation, (5) phase distortion and echoes, (6) noise, and (7) color."
"The Historical and Museum Committee has served for many years as a clearinghouse for authors of historical papers. Since the early 20's, more than 70 historical papers have appeared in the Transactions and the Journal. These papers have documented many important events related to early developments in motion-picture engineering and, more recently, in television engineering and photo-instrumentation. Historical papers appearing in the Journal are a continuing source of information for reseachers and writers. The origin and early work of the Historical Committee are discussed with reference to some of the leading historical papers published by the Society. A classified bibliography of historical, research and review papers published in the Transactions and the Journal lists more than 300 references."
"*******"
"From Time to Time engineering practices are somewhat disturbed by the introduction of proposals that suggest changes in an established system so radical that some concern is developed in areas where the responsibility is primarily that of equipment investment. During these periods of technical unrest the Society of Motion Picture and Television Engineers is always under pressure to give guidance and direction. The exact role of the Society in relation to the American Standard program has often been misinterpreted and misunderstood. This became most evident at a SMPTE conference several years ago when an unprecedented number of visitors attended a meeting of an Engineering Committee and demanded that the Society write Standards “to prevent possible equipment changes” or “guarantees” that there would be no dimensional changes in the near future to make obsolete the system in current use."
"With Nine Years of its short but eventful life behind it, the Council on International Nontheatrical Events (CINE) has become well known to hundreds of producers and sponsors throughout the United States and to film festivals directors throughout the world."
"In order for the motion-picture industry and the general public to benefit fully from the market potential of 8mm prints in the audio-visual field, a system must be developed for mass production of magnetic sound prints at the lowest possible cost. Such a system of high efficiency requires that there be no waste operations. The proposed system, in which all operations have been optimized as much as possible with current technology, uses magnetic prestriped print film in the 35mm/super 8 format. This optimum system takes into consideration film windings, image orientation, optical and contact printing, sound, lubrication, slitting, and packaging. Film handling in terms of registration and transport is discussed."
"An 8mm multipurpose motion-picture camera has been constructed to accept Kodak's super 8, Fuji's Single-8 and regular 8mm films with a change of the camera back unit. A related new 8mm projector has also been built to accept both super 8 and regular 8mm film. The technical background of the camera and projector is described in detail."
"The Camescope is a new approach to an automatic loading projector without expensive film cartridges. A slightly modified common plastic transport spool with a patented clip acts as the cartridge. The user merely fits the spool on an axle, after which the operation is entirely automatic and by remote-control pushbutton. Start, stop, partial quick rewind to show a sequence again, and total rewind are accomplished by pushbutton."
"The Ultra Semi-Scope (USS) system projects a one-frame picture in CinemaScope format with two perforations on 35mm regular film instead of the four perforations in the conventional CinemaScope film. Anamorphosis is not involved in photographing or projecting. The system requires modification of the camera and the projector, for compatible use of either 4- or 2-perforation process films. Optical sound is run at half the usual film speed. Other implications of the USS are outlined."
"By using digital counters, stepping motors and a unique linear control device coupled to a joy stick, faster and more accurate control is obtained in positioning an animation stand compound."
"Research has improved the picture quality in Plumbicon cameras since their introduction. Pictures with higher definition have been obtained with newly developed focus and deflection coil-assemblies and by operation at an increased anode voltage. Methods to increase apparent sharpness include advanced aperture correction and application of anti-halo glass buttons. Techniques to improve color rendition are discussed."
"The evolution of television camera tubes is traced with major changes and improvements described. The survey covers dynode structure change, image section change, and target changes brought about through use of the electronically conducting glass target."
"During its 1965 National Football League coverage, CBS made extensive use of a stop-action effect. Used during recorded replays of sports action, the visual effect of a “frozen” still-frame may be created at will, held for any desired interval, then followed by a resumption of the continuous action. The effect is achieved by a video disc recorder (made by MVR Corp.) which incorporates a channel capable of 20 seconds of continuous recording, combined with an additional single-frame storage channel. The unit incorporates appropriate video switching logic to provide smooth transitions between the modes of operation and to insure transmission of a standard composite video and synchronizing signal."
"The Edmonton CBC television studios were installed in 1962 with the accent on unattended and automatic operation using a minimum of staff. Present facilities include a 2-camera studio, a single remotely controlled camera studio, two videotape recorders, two telecines and two mobile units. The single operator master control position has now been automated using the “Chronolog” system. The advantages (and disadvantages) of this system in a television operation of this size are discussed in the light of two years of experience with it."
"A highly sensitive pulsed-light photometer, which has three stages of solid state amplification, measures the intensity of tiny pulsed-light sources which occur in camera timing markers on high-speed cameras. It measures the relative intensity of a 20-mil diameter pulsed-light spot, but is not affected by direct sunlight. One form of the light probe which fits between the sprocket teeth of a 16mm camera is suitable for checking the reliability of camera timing out on the range. The thin-probe mount which carries only one stage of amplification is connected by a cable to a case containing the other stages, the meter and range switches."
"Tests on streak cameras equipped with rotating mirrors show that the best time resolution is obtained with the mirror spinning in a vacuum. Contrary to common belief, the next best resolution occurs in air, rather than in helium. Although the mirror can be operated much faster in helium, gas turbulence produces poorer time resolution. These results were obtained by putting a Model 770 Streak Camera in autocollimation."
"Extensive tests have been conducted aimed at standardizing the procedures and products used by professional studio make-up artists for color films, color tape and live television, as well as for stage and street make-up."
"With the continued growth of new products — and of new nations — world trade has reached the point where the importance of international standardization must be recognized if order is to come out of the inevitable chaos. It is time we acknowledged standards as one of the prime catalysts of prosperity. — International standardization has always been important to the smooth flow of world trade, but today, with the breakup of empire and the rapid birth of new nations, the more affluent countries must re-examine their standardization policies. The first step toward international standards came in 1906 with the creation of the IEC, and in 1946 the ISO was founded. However, U.S. business has been notoriously apathetic in its attitude, with the result that many sales have been lost because of the incompatibility of American and foreign standards. With the predicted merger of IEC and ISO into what is hoped will be an imaginative, dynamic organization, the U.S. should find an incentive for more vigorous participation."
"In 1962, the city of Rochester began experimenting with instructional television (ITV) with a two-camera operation in one building. Now the city has a complete live/videotape television production center and one of the first 2500-MHz ITV systems in the country. In Rochester and other communities, television and education have been combined, making the development of new television equipment necessary."
"Automatic cartridge-loading 8mm sound film equipment specifically designed for application in education became available in early 1963. Applications of this equipment at the elementary, secondary and university level are reviewed, with reference to national distribution of professionally. produced and government-sponsored films, as well as to local production and utilization of sound film loops. Important factors are the reaction of educators, the availability of the material, domestic and foreign applications and markets, the relation of film to other media used in education, and future developments in equipment."
"A part of the celebration of the Society's Fiftieth Anniversary has been the presentation of historical papers at its 99th and 100th Technical Conferences. Following in this issue of the Journal arc several of the contributions. Others were published earlier in the year and several more will appear when the authors and editors have them complete with archival illustrations. The Society is especially indebted to these authors and many others who have given extended and diligent help to check data and find illustrations."
"High-speed cameras of two types, invented by the author in the 1930's, are described and illustrated in principle. These cameras were invented and reduced to practice while the author was a member of the technical staff of the National Advisory Committee for Aeronautics (now a part of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration). These cameras are the prototypes in the use of a primary and secondary focal plane, with moving optical elements at the primary plane and film at the secondary plane. This principle has made possible the highest attainable speeds in mechano-optical cameras up to several million frames per second."
"The history of frame cameras which can produce serial photographs to measure velocities of physical phenomena is traced. In numerous ways advances in one area have been interlaced with advances in others, e.g., in film transport, mechanical shuttering, intermittent light sources, image-film motion compensation, optical shuttering, image sampling and electronic image converters. Reasons for the interlacing and the results there from are suggested."
"Long-focus lenses are often called telephoto lenses, but this name should be restricted to those objectives which comprise a positive front component spaced apart from a negative rear component, such that the total length from front vertex to film plane is less than the focal length of the whole objective. In 1891, telephoto lenses were made by mounting a negative achromat behind a normal objective, making possible a very long focal length even with a relatively short camera bellows extension; however, the low aperture, field curvature and distortion were such that by 1905 manufacturers started making fixed-focus telephoto lenses with a moderate aperture and field. The simple thin-lens theory of the telephoto lens shows that the negative lens will be as weak as possible if it is situated midway between the positive lens and the focal plane. Telephoto lenses are currently popular for the longer focal lengths on single-lens reflex cameras. A survey of the principal types of telephoto lens is given, with examples of some actual lenses currently available."
"Max Skladanowsky of Berlin developed a Bioscop Projector with which he showed motion pictures for the first time on November 1, 1895, as part of the program at the Berlin Wintergarten theater. Beginning about 1890 and without financial aid, he designed and built himself all equipment from camera to projector including apparatus for splitting, perforating, printing and processing of the film. He produced many of his films and showed them throughout Germany and several other European countries between 1895 and 1897. A biography is given of Skladanowsky's work in thc fields in which he was actively engaged."
"The author had the privilege of working under the supervision of John G. Capstaff from January 1919 to October 1925 on the early development of the 16mm program. While the author did participate in the experimentation with both the Cine Kodak and related equipment, as well as the Kodascope, his major effort was devoted to standardizing the reversal process, the development of processing equipment and the duplication of reversal originals by the reversal process. Some of the experiences and problems encountered during this period were difficult to anticipate and to solve because of the lack of previous experience in this field and the general knowledge and conditions which prevailed at that time."
"“The Cinema at Home””it was with this forceful announcement that Pathé-Cinéma put on the market in 1922 a projector which was made rather like a handbag, light, portable and looking something like a toy.1 Films of 9.5mm width could be projected with it at home on a small screen. It was very easy to manipulate, even for children. Safety film (then called “non-Ham”) was used. The width of the film was 9.5mm, and the perforations were placed in the middle of the film between the frames. It was supplied in 8.50-meter lengths on small reels or in cassettes, and gave several minutes of projection time. After projection, the film was rewound in its cassette (Fig. 1)."
"Sound Recording is not often thought of as a “carrier” system, not unlike multiplex telephone carrier systems, or as having a fundamental conception like the space satellites now being used for TV broadcasting from Europe; but in a carrier telephone system a high frequency is used as a “carrier.” and in motion pictures the film is used as a “carrier” with the photographic image of the modulated light serving as the signal."
"A French Patent of 1808 by Ducos du Hauron describes how a screen of fine colored lines could be ruled upon a glass plate with an emulsion on top and exposed and reversed to obtain a color transparency. The screen could be a mosaic of many substances such as glass particles, yeast cells or even microbes dyed the three colors. It is easier to make a mosaic than to rule fine lines on glass. Louie Lumiere, who invented the claw and three-cornered cam mechanism for cameras and projectors, used starch grains from potatoes to make the mosaic. The plates, which he called Autochromes, were produced and sold all over the world from about 1908 until the late 1930s when modern color films made the very slow Autochrome system obsolete. (A description of Autochrome is included in a paper by Glenn E. Matthews, “Photography in Natural Colors,” which appeared in the February 1931 issue of the Journal, pp. 188–219.)"
"Undoubtedly all the teachers of film history and the subject of motion pictures are aware of the Library of Congress Paper Print Restoration Program that was started more than ten years ago by the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences, but few if any have ever seen the paper product itself or know exactly why it was used."
"The National Archives and Records Service of the General Services Administration has a unique role within the Federal Government and in American society, as the conservator of the best, the most valuable and significant of the tremendous mass of records created by the Federal Government."
"To provide power for motion-picture and television lighting during location photography for the U.S. Naval Photographic Center, Washington, D.C., a silenced self-propelled portable electric power plant was developed to operate on and off the highway and to produce direct current for arc lights and highly stable 60-Hz ac for television and ac lighting equipment. The output capacity is a 1000 A with any combination of ac or dc load."
"This letter presents a novel method of forming a difference signal which is proportional to the intensity subtraction of two time-adjacent television frames. The difference signal provides a measure of the redundancy between frames, and is usefull in the development of pattern recognition and television bandwidth reduction systems. Other non-optical methods of frame difference generation are described by Seyler.*"
"The August issue of Tekhnika Kino i Televideniya carries an article “The First Meeting of the All-Union Commission for Cine Techniques of the Union of Cinematographers.” This meeting was held in Moscow, May 25–27, and the participants considered the goals and organizational steps to meet them in accord with the five-year plan set forth for the years 1766–1770."
"This is the eighth in a series (consisting of the survey report of 1959 and six subsequent Interim Reports and Market Review) reporting on selected financial and statistical development of the nontheatrical motion-picture and audio-visual field in the United States. It brings up to date (as of January 1, 1966) this information, and accordingly supersedes “Marked Review: Nontheatrical Film and Audio-Visual — 1964,” published in the September 7965 Journal (pp. 802–805)."
"Ultra-high-speed photography is needed to record transient stress patterns in models made from high modulus photoelastic materials. A unique photooptical system was developed to obtain simultaneous normal and oblique incidence dynamic stress patterns at rates up to 1,000,000 frames/s. Comparing the photoelastic results with strain gage measurements demonstrated the usefulness of the oblique incidence method for separating principal stresses under dynamic conditions in a circular disc. Dynamic values of the stress-optic coefficient, Young's modulus, and Poisson's ratio were determined from photoelastic and strain gage measurements of elastic waves in a bar. Examples of stress wave propagation in transparent, two-dimensional models were studied using these techniques."
"Continuous and time-resolved measurements of the spectral distribution of light emitted by various exploding wire systems have been obtained by use of a high speed drum camera and a rotating shutter, respectively. Results from experiments with several systems show the effects of environment, pressure, energy, and wire material on the spectrum. Various intermediate species produced by the explosion are determined spectroscopically."
"A high-speed photographic study was made to investigate the mechanisms of aerodynamic breakup of liquid drops in the flow behind a plane shockwave. The desired flow conditions were generated in a small shock tube instrumented to measure parameters necessary to determine existing flow conditions and to provide for synchronization of the high-speed events with the photographic equipment. High-speed motion pictures, taken at the rate of 26,000 frames/s were made of the deformation and subsequent breakup of free-falling liquid drops in the flow behind the shockwave. The parameters which were varied during the study included the flow velocity, droplet size, and the surface tension, viscosity and density of the liquid. The operation of the experimental equipment is described and results obtained from the study are presented and discussed."
"High-speed motion pictures are used to study various high-velocity flow phenomena in Rutgers University's supersonic wind tunnel. Specialized equipment is used to transmit and reflect light rays to the camera lens. Due to density gradients in the air flow, the light rays form an image in which both shock waves and boundary layers can be seen in color or black-and-white. These techniques are useful in studying shock formation, transonic flow and unsteady supersonic flow over various missile cone and airplane wing models."
"A new Plumbicon color camera chain has been designed featuring zoom-type optics, prism color beam-splitter, transistor circuitry, printed circuit cards and modular construction. Flexibility is built into a standard 19-in. rack-mounted camera control unit through the use of plug-in modules. Operation and registration units are separate and can be located at a remote distance from the CCU."
"In 1963 an experimental color television camera employing a new pickup tube, called the Plumbicon, was shown publicly by N. V. Philips Gloeilampenfabrieken of Holland. The camera and its integration into the existing CBS plant have been evaluated as well as the operating experience to date. Although a specific camera is dealt with, the results obtained may be considered representative of the performance of Plumbicon color cameras manufactured by other companies."
"In 1947 a World-Wide Interest in the problems of theater design was reflected in a group of some 36 papers presented at the Society's Fall Conference in New York. Following their appearance in the Journal it was decided that the importance of these papers warranted their publication in book form. As a result of this decision, Motion-Picture Theater: Planning and Upkeep was published by the Society in 1948."
"Three kinds of motion-picture presentations are considered: (1) dramatic; (2) informational presentations for educational, technical, business and exhibit use; and (3) impact presentations for exhibits and expositions. An analysis of the psychophysical aspects of the human visual experience is evaluated for development of a new motion-picture viewing experience. Developmental and economic factors and potential audience capacity are discussed."
"The operation of large-capacity motion-picture theaters and concert halls built in the USSR in recent years is discussed. The technical facilities for motion-picture presentation in such theaters are examined."
"Trends in motion-picture theater construction reflect new functions according to local conditions. In consideration of this fact cinema construction in Czechoslovakia is specifically planned for large open-air amphitheaters and model projects of theaters with standardized parameters. The sociological and economic problems of both types of theater and their different technical parameters are analyzed."
"After reviewing the development of motion-picture theater construction for silent, sound and wide-screen films, the effects of the rapprochement now taking place between the projection of motion pictures and live stage performance is discussed. The basic concepts of motion-picture theater construction as defined in the French Standard S-27,001 are reviewed and improvements suggested not only for large or multiple screen projection but also for satisfactorily adapting motion-picture projection to modern stage production. A new type of auditorium to meet the requirements of theater and cinema combined in presenting the new forms of entertainment is described."
"The origin of image deformations on screens, real and apparent deformations, and physical and psychic factors are discussed. Apparent deformations due to immobile and mobile images are considered with their respective deformation indexes. Isodeformation curves of mobile and immobile images and their design are described. Even and cylindrical screens are examined and the delimitation of apparent deformations is investigated. The uses of normal screens, wide screens, CinemaScope, Todd-AO-70mm and Cinerama are outlined."
"The variables and parameters affecting architectural planning and the selection of audio-visual systems for lecture halls and other learning spaces are surveyed. Interrelationships of factors are discussed, including design requirements for modern educational techniques as differentiated from cinema-theater-auditorium design; general hall geometry and seating plan as determined by the character of events, limitations of audience, required sight lines and projection angles; illumination of hall, special events and screens and the effect of hall light on screen; general acoustics; the need for integrating architectural design with selection of projection equipment and screens; the effect of front and rear projection; and lighting, audio and projection control. Bases for examination of economic optimums are given and guide lines for future research are suggested."
"Factors affecting motion-picture film picture quality are compared for conventional television kinescope recording and for recording motion-picture film with an electron beam. Experimental results indicate electron exposure makes possible a substantial improvement in resolution along with a reduction of picture noise. Also, electron recording, by eliminating the problems of phosphor light persistence, and film reciprocity failure, is shown to simplify the conversion from 60 television fields/s to 24 film frames/s."
"Proper film handling and electron beam control provide superior black-and-white 16mm recordings of interlaced 525-line television signals. An intermittent shuttle mechanism phase locked to the television signal together with a timed deflection gate of the electron beam provides the conversion from 30 to 24 frames. Exposure control is obtained with a beam sampling servo system. A two-vacuum system with the film providing its own seal minimizes start-up time and prolongs the electron gun filament life."
"The present state of photographic optics, from simple lenses to the most complex lens systems, is discussed, including the use of plastics, aspheric surfaces, and production techniques for large picture sizes. The level of development of motion-picture optics, primarily lenses with variable focal lengths, is also discussed."
"A brief examination is made of the current techniques of television signal transmission, audio- and video-frequency transmission and radio-frequency (RF) transmission. It is concluded that audio- and video-frequency transmission is more effective when precise control of the signal and its parameters is maintained as being of prime importance. RF transmission more completely utilizes the information handling capability of transmission lines, allowing the transmission of several signals simultaneously. RF transmission is more effective where it is difficult or costly to run cable or where signals must be transmitted simultaneously in two directions over one line."
"Television in the United Arab Republic has undergone extensive development since the first broadcast on July 21, 1960. Adequate facilities for live broadcasts, video-tape recordings and films have been installed in the six studios in the television building in Cairo. The successive stages of the development of the UAR network are described in detail and plans for more extensive coverage are discussed."
"Both theater projection of color films and color television transmission of color films place certain limits on the variation of color and density balance between reels of a feature presentation or between the different intercut materials which make up a complete television show. While these limits may be the same in both cases, the problem of achieving such control is much more apparent in color television because of the nature of television programing."
"Lenses of the reversed telephoto type were first used on cameras in the 1920's, although they had been used on projectors for many decades. This type has the advantages of a wide angular field, a long back-focal distance, and the possibility of a high relative aperture; however, the lens tends to be physically large, and existing designs are often complex and expensive. In spite of these disadvantages this type has been extensively used on motion-picture cameras, and recently also for wide-angle lenses on single-lens reflex cameras."
"The results of full-scale test of an experimental dryer using an accelerated drying method are discussed. A modernized dryer for a color positive ciné. film developing machine is described. The operation of a modernized dryer with a new system of air treatment is analyzed; this operates on an open cycle without an air drying chamber."
"A preliminary report on the visit of the second SMPTE delegation to the Russian film industry was presented at the 98th SMPTE Technical Conference in Montreal by the Chairman of the delegation. That report was illustrated with color slides taken on the trip. Subsequently, more extensive visual presentations were made at meetings of several sections of the Society. The following report is illustrated by photographs taken by Messrs. Farmer, Jeffee and Solow and also by photographs given to the delegation by the various organizations visited during the tour. For additional information readers are referred to the report of the first U.S. delegation and to papers by Komar,2 Wysotski3 and Rosental'.4"
"Recent requirements for full studio-type facilities in mobile units have resulted in two new vehicle designs. The smaller unit, a modified passenger bus, is in use in Montreal. Two larger units, tractor-trailer combinations, are in use in Ottawa and Toronto. Each unit contains four 4½-in. image-orthicon chains, extensive switching, special effects and monitoring, dual language audio facilities and, in one trailer unit, a telecine chain. Each unit is fully air-conditioned to allow operation from −20 F to +90 F ambient."
"An optical/mechanical unit containing a 16mm film camera which couples to a TV camera through a common zoom lens is described and illustrated. The direct film recording system, named Gemini, is used throughout the world to record television programs for distribution, thus eliminating the problem of multiple television standards. The system is becoming increasingly important for the filming of programs in color using black-and-white television cameras."
"A report is presented here on an investigation made to determine if a set of normalized data representative of all quartz-iodine lamps could be obtained for the use of optical designers. Among the factors discussed are filament temperature, luminance and size, color temperature, lamp life and significant applications of the data developed in the study."
"The technical quality of the CBC television network is supervised by test and reference signals transmitted along with the program signal during the vertical blanking period. A pilot plant for VIT has been installed to evaluate the use of such signals and to gain experience. Permanent VIT facilities, including system concepts and equipments are described. Considerations regarding the full use of vertical interval test and reference signals are presented."
"The Australian Television Network and the application of Vertical Interval Test Signals (VITS) for the continuous assessment of operational performance are described. The allocation of time during the vertical interval between station operators and the Australian Post Office (A.P.O.) is explained and the types of VITS used by both parties are considered. Methods of assessment of performance are outlined, and future developments in this field are discussed."
"Vertical interval test signal (VITS) insertion has now become a widely adopted means of on-line testing and monitoring of TV signal transmissions. In a network of relay links interconnecting a number of different user organizations, different functions of VITS must be provided, depending on the user and purpose of the inserted signals. To provide the required flexibility of operation, a VITS insertion unit has been developed by means of which up to eight different test signals may be inserted and/or replaced. To accommodate varying operational requirements, the insertion line switching sequence is controlled by digital insertion program logic, prewired on a plug-in card which may readily be exchanged. — Integrated with the equipment is a sampled automatic gain control system which uses an inserted level reference waveform to provide the level adjustment criterion. Synchronizing and blanking signal regeneration is also provided, but on a substantially line-by-line basis, thus allowing a number of VITS insertion units to be operated in cascade. To protect the TV signal transmission from being interrupted by a malfunction of the insertion unit, an extensive fault testing routine is built into the VITS unit. In the event of equipment failure, an automatic bridging of the insertion unit by electromechanical switches takes place."
"Vertical Interval Test Signals (VITS) permit continuous quality control of television signals. Principal test signals used are the multiburst, modulated stairstep and sine-squared pulse and bar. VITS are monitored on a waveform monitor especially designed for this application. Such monitors must have a line selector and a positive-acting field selector. A number of the major design factors in the development of suitable waveform monitors are considered. While VITS provide many important measurements, there are some limitations."
"Bar graph displays are applicable in many industrial, research and educational areas. The device described is used with standard TV systems to provide a graphic display of eight or more separate input signals in the form of a series of vertical bars, the height of each being proportional to the associated input voltage. Design philosophy permits flexible and effective displays including mixing with normal TV images, special bar identification, and color options. Equipment is compact and relatively low in cost."
"The practicality of using a semiconductor light emitting diode and a semiconductor photo transistor in a film scanning system is proven by implementation. The use of these devices rather than an incandescent lamp and photomultiplier tube leads to a system using no high voltages, requiring no warm-up and having very long life with repeatable operation."
"Different systems used in the USSR for 35mm wide-screen anamorphic and 70mm motion-picture production and methods of making prints for them for different types of theaters and on television are discussed, with attention to some technological aspects of production. The possibilities for further improvements of motion- picture production methods utilizing 70mm intermediate film to obtain release prints for different types of presentation systems are considered. Demonstration reels accompanied the Conference presentation."
"Specially designed combination drive sprockets have been substituted for the conventional 16mm drive sprockets in the processing machine. By an offset splice between Super 8 film and regular 16mm film or double 8mm film, the film is automatically transferred to the proper set of sprocket teeth."
"The problems of audio signal control for a modern radio broadcast facility are reviewed, including requirements for signal-to-noise ratios, switching, signal attenuation and distortion. The development of a solid-state electronic attenuator system is described, which avoids the necessity of having any audio signal circuits at the mixer console. The flexibility afforded by this system approach is probably applicable to other fields."
"Three techniques for metric photography are described. In the first, missile position-time data are obtained from measurement of photographs of the virtual image produced in a precision-ground sphere by a timed stroboscopic point-source lamp. In the second, a rotating circular film disc is covered with sector-shaped exposures using a timed stroboscopic lamp. In the third, the previously described techniques are combined to obtain data simultaneously."
"A possible mission for a manned space laboratory is telescopic observation of the earth. A major problem is the design of the control systems for manual pointing and tracking of the telescope. A flight simulator was constructed by the Douglas Aircraft Co. to investigate the control dynamics and to determine how much, if any, computer aid to the operator is necessary. Problems involved in the design of the simulator are considered. The major portion of the discussion pertains to the configuration of the optical system. A description of the facility and mission types simulated is given and the importance of certain viewing system parameters, such as magnification, is briefly noted."
"An operational space flight simulator using closed-circuit television with pinhole optics is described. Performance and limitations of the television display system are presented. Typical mission simulation experiments are detailed with representative illustrative examples. Practical aspects of the system such as lighting requirements, star background simulation, special modifications to cameras and the operation of the TV switching system are included."
"Silver in thiosulfate fixing baths can be determined when instruments or special equipment is not available. Silver is precipitated as silver sulfide when a thiosulfate fixing bath is treated with thioacetamide. The silver is titrated, in effect, by adding graduated amounts of thioacetamide to aliquots of the fixing solution and then determining if all the silver has been precipitated. Each aliquot is filtered and the filtrate is allowed to run into more thioacetamide solution. Formation of more silver sulfide precipitate indicates that the end point has not been reached. If no precipitate forms, the end point has been exceeded. The method is most useful if only an approximate result is required or especially if a go-no-go type of decision is needed."
"It is proposed to modify the pulse-and-bar test signal, which has been used in England to measure linear waveform distortion in TV systems, by a special 20T sine-squared pulse. This pulse is formed by the linear addition of a 20T-pulse to the pulse modulated on the color subcarrier. Transmission distortions can thus be recognized at the upper end of the video band. The deformation of the envelope of such a pulse indicates various transmission distortions of the luminance and chrominance channels. The combination of this 20T-pulse with the elements of the existing pulse-and-bar test signal is also suggested."
"The TV vestigial sideband transmission produces nonlinear effects, quadrature errors, inherent in the system. These errors give rise to increased overshoots, loss in resolution and a change of the pulse ratio with square-wave signals. With the transmission of color signals, two types of distortion are known so far: incorrect reproduction of the brightness of colored areas, and phase modulation of the vision carrier. A possibility of correcting the quadrature errors is discussed. The equipment described is arranged in the video part of the transmitter to precorrect the distortions. Home reception is thus improved."
"An acoustical analysis is presented with the relationship to construction of a modern sound stage. This is illustrated by a specific example of a stage having about 14,000 sq ft of floor area and a height clearance of 35 ft. The construction employed 6-in.-thick concrete, tilt-up walls. The significant acoustic precautions are discussed, including isolation of structural and utility elements, interior acoustic material, doors and air conditioning."
"For a multiscreen exhibition project, a portable commercial ${1\\over4}$-in. tape recorder has been adapted for two-channel stereophonic recording. This modification is described and performance data are given. Synchronous recording is possible with precision oscillators and a frequency-modulated control track system. The location equipment also permits synchronous playbacks, using the recorder's internal batteries as the power source for all auxiliary units. The studio equipment for the transfer of stereo location recordings is also described."
"Since the introduction of the air-blown carbon-arc lamp, many refinements have been made to enhance its use for 35mm and 70mm projection. The incorporation of a double-roller negative-feed mechanism assures accurate positioning of the negative carbon. A new 11.5 high-brightness positive carbon and a newly designed elliptical reflector have made this lamp especially adaptable to 70mm projection. A reduction in aperture temperatures has been achieved by the use of a dichroic filter."
"Methods of storing a sequence of frames by holographic methods are described, along with various problems of readout and projection. An animated hologram has been produced using multiple image storage and Bragg angle readout."
"Attention is drawn to the general laws of the appearance of image distortions within the cinematographic process in view of photography, printing, projection and visual perception of motion-picture films. The principles that are discussed are inherent in the objective quantitative estimation of image distortions and are suitable for various systems of feature cinematography, that is, normal, wide-screen, wide-gage and stereoscopic. A range of criteria is suggested for quality estimation of geometric distortions and formulas are cited for the definition of a few criteria."
"In planning construction of TV broadcasting facilities in developing areas, various restrictions such as shortage of skilled engineers and technicians, climate, quality of power supply and other environmental conditions must be considered. Precautions taken in the installation of facilities and the designing of equipment under such restrictions have been studied. The latest studio system in which an automatic operation selecting system aiming mainly at mechanization and rationalization of program operation has been introduced in an attempt to eliminate mistakes in operation."
"Reliable theater sound equipment can be made from properly designed solid-state circuits. A new solid-state theater sound system has been designed with modular packaging and advanced circuitry. The system is simple to operate and easy to maintain. Performance requirements and reliability factors are discussed."
"Printing 4-hole standard anamorphosed prints from 2-hole original negatives requires an optical printer that prints directly from the negatives and which contains an automatic device for special effects (dissolves, fade-ins, fade-outs), light changes and starting and stopping. The device is electronic and controlled by perforated tape and can be fitted to any optical printer to automate and speed its operation."
"Two new high-speed Ektachrome reversal color films (Daylight and Type B) have been designed to provide improved sharpness, grain and color rendition with no sacrifice in speed. A simplification of the prehardened Ektachrome process for which these new films are designed is described. Still higher speeds can be obtained, when required, by a process modification. These films are widely useful in the color television news, sports, industrial and education fields."
"Systems for making 16mm prints from 16mm reversal color originals and reversal intermediates are described and demonstrated. Features and applications of the various systems are discussed with references to the orientation problem which results when reversal intermediates are intercut with reversal originals."
"The following Bibliography of more than 180 papers has been compiled by R. P. Chambers and J. S. Courtney-Pratt, Bell Telephone Laboratories, Inc., Murray Hill, N. J. 07971. This Bibliography was submitted to the Journal on March 14, 1966. — The list of papers immediately below is in reverse chronological order for the years 1966–1948. Within each year papers are placed by first author in alphabetic order. Abstracts are given for most of the papers. There are some for which no abstracts are available. A few very brief papers appear in toto. — In some instances introductory sections have been added to or used in place of an abstract and occasionally the reader will find brief comments by the authors of the Bibliography."
"These test procedures are to bring up to date the IRE \"Standards on Facsimile-Temporary Test Standards-1943\" (43 IRE 9.S1). In part there has been new experience and technological advance since then. But it has also been noted that that document could, to advantage, be made more complete and cover a wider range of tests. An important objective has therefore been to make the new test procedures more comprehensive, to cover tests for determining most of the measurable quantities that were defined in IRE Standards on Facsimile: Definitions of Terms (56 IRE 9.S1, ASA C16.30-1957) now IEEE No. 168. The scope, in part, has been derived from facsimile equipment designed to operate over a telephone frequency bandwidth, but the tests are described in a general way, to make them utilizable over wider bandwidths as far as possible."
"Presents a list of the standard definition of terms for thyristors. Sections include: classes of thyristors; physical structure nomenclature and electrical characteristic terms."
"This document is a companion to Technical Committee Report on Recommended Practices for Burst Measurements in the Time Domain, IEEE No. 257, May 1964. In the time domain document, bursts are defined and particular attention is placed on their duration and magnitude. The use of additional characteristics may prove desirable when investigating both cause and effect of a burst. Mathematical transformations have been widely used to bring out particular characteristics of signals. Perhaps the one most commonly used is the Fourier Transform, which defines the spectrum of signals. The energy density spectrum of a burst, a quantity derived from the Fourier Transform, is the subject of this report. Other transformations such as those of Hilbert or Henkel, may be used to display different characteristics of a burst but they will not be considered here. Sampling the energy density spectrum is the key concept of this document. It constitutes the basis by which this spectrum can be characterized comprehensively by a practical number of measurements. The sampling theorems in the frequency domain are, therefore, given detailed consideration in Appendices to the extent necessary for understanding the measurement methods to be discussed."
"The purpose of this Standard is to describe a practical and reproducible method for measuring the transmission characteristics of a telephone set, and the components thereof, by means of objective measurements in a test connection. Performance characteristics obtained using this method will approximate but will not duplicate performance under actual use conditions. The method requires a suitable Artificial Mouth. It also specifies a standard Artificial Ear, standard circuits comprising direct-current power feed and connecting loops, and a standard pressure microphone. This Standard is intended for use in measuring the transmission characteristic over the frequency range most useful for speech, e.g. 150 to 5000 hertz. It is to be used for single-frequency measurements and for measurements with continuously varying frequencies such as slow sweeps and warble bands. It is suitable also for measuring the transmission performance of conventional telephone sets equipped with handsets using carbon transmitters and used with 2-wire circuits. It is not intended to be applicable to special devices such as noise-exclusion transmitters, distant-talking transmitters, insert-type receivers, or noise-exclusion receivers equipped with large ear pads. This Standard is based on a standard pressure microphone to measure the sound field produced by the Artificial Mouth and to measure the pressure developed in the Artificial Ear. Drawings and test procedures as well as other pertinent information have been included as an aid to designers in setting up the tests.performance."
"This document is a companion to Technical Committee Report on Recommended Practices for Burst Measurements in the Time Domain, IEEE No. 257, May 1964. In the time domain document, bursts are defined and particular attention is placed on their duration and magnitude.The use of additional characteristics may prove desirable when investigating both cause and effect of a burst. Mathematical transformations have been widely used to bring out particular characteristics of signals. Perhaps the one most commonly used is the Fourier Transform, which defines the spectrum of signals. The energy density spectrum of a burst, a quantity derived from the Fourier Transform, is the subject of this report. Other transformations such as those of Hilbert or Hankel, may be used to display different characteristics of a burst but they will not be considered here. Sampling the energy density spectrum is the key concept of this document. It constitutes the basis by which this spectrum can be characterized comprehensively by a practical number of measurements. The sampling theorems in the frequency domain are, therefore, given detailed consideration in Appendices to the extent necessary for understanding the measurement methods to be discussed."
"The following topics are dealt with: standard definitions; general electrical terms; and general electronic terms."
"This Test Procedure has been prepared in the hope that it will serve as a useful guide for the evaluation of insulation systems for form-wound coils for alternating-current stators and to establish a sound basis for their temperature classification. Once this is accomplished in orderly and organized fashion, the problems of insulation selection for use in electric apparatus should be simplified. The purpose is to define procedures, and not to establish any normal values for insulation life, nor to provide any standards of performance whatever."
"Presents the front cover or splash screen of the proceedings record."
"Presents the copyright information for the conference. May include reprint permission information."
"Conference proceedings front matter may contain various advertisements, welcome messages, committee or program information, and other miscellaneous conference information. This may in some cases also include the cover art, table of contents, copyright statements, title-page or half title-pages, blank pages, venue maps or other general information relating to the conference that was part of the original conference proceedings."
"The conference organizers greatly appreciate the support of the various corporate sponsors listed."
"The conference organizers greatly appreciate the support of the various corporate sponsors listed."
"The following topics are dealt with: electromagnetic compatibility; suppression devices; field strength measurements; instrumentation; EMC programs and electromagnetic shielding."
"Start of the above-titled section of the conference proceedings record."
"A program for academic discipline in EI control will be described. The chief feature is the division of EI technology into time-frequency control and space-amplitude control. It is recommended that open system control be studied separately from closed system control, at least for the time being. Details will be presented in space-amplitude control of closed systems only, since that is the author's field of interest. \"This latter analysis is based on a \"common mode model\". The subject of compatibility synthesis is introduced."
"Summary form only given. In November of 1965, an EMC Workshop-Seminar was conducted by NASA-OMSFApollo Program Office (Code MAR), at Daytona Beach, Florida. Approximately 43 Electromagnetic Interference Specialists representing a cross-section of government, industry and educational institutions active in EMI/EMC activities participated in the critique of a newly developed handbook entitled, \"EMC Principles & Practices.\" Review of the handbook material was accomplished via a seminar-lecture series relating to the chapters of the Handbook. In addition, this seminar was intended to serve as a preview for a proposed EMC Workshop-Seminar format to be presented at NASA/Apollo Centers in 1966. The participants, specialists in specific EMI problem areas, were encouraged to evaluate and critique the material presented both for suitability to their respective discipline areas as well as objectively for overall impact in creating \"EMC Awareness\" to management, design and test engineers. These critiques were conducted at the end of each session and provided stimulating discussions from which all participants gained in the exchange between this aggregate of national technical leaders. In addition, following the verbal review, all participants were requested to submit a written critique of the specific session. This paper addresses itself to the conclusions of this preview seminar and serves as a report to the EMC community on the course of action taken, as well as the results obtained in its implementation at the several NASA/Apollo Centers to date."
"Start of the above-titled section of the conference proceedings record."
"An evaluation has been made of the lightning protection on launch structures at Cape Kennedy, Florida, Wallops Island, Virginia, and Vandenberg AFB, California. The need fo r this has been demonstrated by the delays in launch schedules and damage to facilities and vehicles due to lightning strikes. As launch complexes become larger, boosters and payloads more sophisticated, costly, and sensitive, and ground support systems more extensive, the probability of damage due to lightning increases. This survey is based on the examination of the various launch complexes and a number of publications. It includes information on lightning phenomena, protection devices, and instrumentation for detecting and predicting thunderstorm activity. The protection of launch facilities from lightning is basically no different than that for any other type of structure. An electrically continuous path must be provided by which a discharge can be conducted to earth without entering a vulnerable part of a structure. If adequately grounded metal parts of correct proportions are properly distributed, damage can be prevented or greatly reduced."
"This paper describes the presentations that were given to engineers to provide them with techniques to minimize electronic interference. The special electro-interference problems associated with electronic equipment for missiles and military systems were given prime attention. Stress was placed on the basic theory of electrointerference which the design engineer could apply in his daily work. In such a manner, each engineer solves the electro-interference problems related to his circuit during the design o f that circuit. This approach i s even more important if the design includes microminiature circuits, since shielding and ground solutions must be an integral part of the design. Adding large, heavy filters and transformers to solve an interference problem defeats the basic idea of microminiature circuits. However, since the technique of microminiature circuits makes available more circuitry per square inch, the opportunity is presented to utilize circuit techniques to solve many interference coupling problems."
"Start of the above-titled section of the conference proceedings record."
"The Federal Communications Commission on March 2 7 , 1964 established an Advisory Committee for the Land Mobile Radio Services under the chairmanship of Commissioner Kenneth A. Cox. The Committee was charged with collecting and analyzing all information that has a bearing on the efficiency with which land mobile frequencies are utilized. One of the areas to be explored was the matter of man-made noise and this subject was assigned to Working Group 3 of the Technical Committee. The specific objectives of Working Group were to determine which man-made noise sources were the most potent and the extent to which man-made noise limits reception in the land mobile radio service."
"An enumeration of some of the radio interference problems facing Federal Communications Commission Field Engineers in every District Office. A discussion of one specific problem, that of Radio Controlled Garage Door' Opener Systems. with which the Los Angeles office has had recent experience."
"This paper is a summary of the historical development of the problem, and explains recent interagency work toward better management of these sites in the public interest. The Forest Service and Federal Communications Commission and Interdepartment Radio Advisory Committee are currently working on procedures for this purpose . This interagency work is only a first step in dealing with many facets of the question. Other problems are discussed, including application of modern EMC techniques to management of these sites."
"This paper discusses the rules recently proposed by the FCC for RF Welding Equipment, also known in industry as High Frequency Stabilized Arc Welders or as RF Excited Arc Welders. These welders incorporate an RF generator with the RF energy coupled into the welding leads as shown diagrammatically in Figure 1. RF excitation is used for arc starting and stabilizing for metal arc welding at low curent with small consumable electrodes, and welding with non-consumable electrodes, usually tungsten shielded by an inert gas."
"Start of the above-titled section of the conference proceedings record."
"One important problem that arises in the development of an electromagnetic compatibility prediction process is that of defining the accuracy which one might expect to obtain as a result of utilizing the process in a compatibility analysis. However, before we can answer the question of the over-all accuracy that may be obtained from an electromagnetic compatibility prediction, it is necessary to examine the accuracy limitations imposed by the transmitter, receiver, and antenna functions which serve as inputs to the prediction process. This paper discusses the problem of input accuracy for the case in which statistical representations of the input functions are derived from spectrum signature data."
"An experimental study was performed to determine if spurious products formed from multiple signal mixes were dependent upon input signal phase relationships, and if the phase position of the intermediate frequency response wa s a function of mixer bias voltages. Formations of multiple mix products due to signal and local oscillator harmonic injection were investigated using a diode mixer, and the measurement procedures and instrumentation necessary to measure the effects of signal phase relationships on these products are presented. Test results are shown which verify that variations in the phase orientations between the fundamental and harmonics of an injected signal cause radical variations in output response levels. It is also shown that the phase of output responses are a function of the mixer bias voltage."
"This paper discusses a frequency assignment concept based upon the use of mutual interference charts. It can b e used t o assign frequencies among networks of communications equipment s . The model is designated \"FABRIC\", since it develops Frequency Assignment By Reference to Interference Charts. Designed t o provide a logical-development of frequency assignments for any arbitrary deployment of such equipments, the model can take into account both single interference signal coupling relationships such a s spurious response, spurious emissions, etc., and multiple interference signal effects, such a s transmitter and receiver intermodulation and cross-modulation."
"Equipment characteristics for compatibility analysis can be obtained from statistical reduction of spectrum signature data. However , practical measurement limitatations such as dynamic range, receiver sensitivity, and signal generator power impose limitations on the resultant data. As a result of these limitations, certain transmitter outputs, receiver responses, or regions of an antenna pattern may be beyond the range of the measurement instrumentation. If such data Blre reduced without regard to the bias thus introduced, the statistical representations derived from the data samples w ill be in error. This paper discusses the significance of data samples obtained from a population that is \" truncated\" as a result of measurement limitations, and discusses the consequences of overlooking the fact that some of the data samples are missing."
"The effects of uncertainty or inaccuracy of major EMC parameters are considered as they apply t o a specific class o f EMC problems. Quantitative Significance of parameters, probable prediction accuracy and measurement accuracy requirements are noted. A major conclusion is that ability to predict \" serious \" operational degradation is relatively independent of the choice of output criteria."
"Start of the above-titled section of the conference proceedings record."
"The installation o f the most recent configuration of overhead and underground lossy power conductors at the Hawaiian Tracking Station, South Point, Hawaii, has been tested, and the results show that the conducted and radiated interference from the power line are greatly reduced. Measurements o f attenuated interference covered the frequency range from 14 kHz to 1,000 MHz. Attenuation of both the line-to-earth and line-to-line modes of propogation on the overhead line was determined. Results of EHV and surge tests on lossy conductors are discussed as well as general advantages and limitations in the use o f lossy power conductors."
"This paper surveys the criteria and concepts of three significantly new, nonconventional, but most practical classes of filters which are expected to have a great impact on the whole, of ten rather frustrating, RFI filtering technique: I. Miniature ceramic feed-through capacitors of 0.5μF, so small that they may b e used i n (low frequency cut-off) multiple pin electrical connectors. II. Truly lossy, worst-case filters which work very effectively into all interfaces--in contrast to conventional RFI filters, meeting the meaningless 50 ohm condition of MIL-STD220A but working often very poorly or even inversely in actual systems. III. Efficient, small active filters which are highly desirable in work pertaining to Fed. Std. 222."
"This paper describes a passive, low-pass, power line, interference filter which provides required insertion loss even though the line-to-chassis capacitance is limited to a comparatively small value. Various filter circuits are considered, and mathematical expressions for computing insersion loss are developed. Filter characteristics, obtained from a computer study which used these mathematical expressions, are presented graphically. Test data is included from prototype filter tests, as well as from qualification tests of equipment utilizing this type filter."
"In establishing electrocompatibility in a given system, the interference reduction method most frequently employed is that of electromagnetic shielding. Shielding is used to prevent radiation from entering into susceptible equipments or for containing it at the source. For a given combination of parameters, a continuous metallic enclosure offers the best shielding. However, there is a drawer, door, access panel, etc., or a combination of these for every practical enclosure. As a result, gaps or seams exist around the edges of these discontinuities through which electromagnetic energy can leak. A diversity of so-called radio frequency (RF ) gasket materials have been developed to fill in these gaps or seams and eliminate or at least lessen the amount of leakage through them. The question presents itself - - what constitutes a good gasket? It is not the purpose of this paper t o answer this question but to explain a method for obtaining a quantitative answer. It should be emphasized that only shielding effectiveness of a gasket will be under consideration. Other properties which must be considered such as electrolytic compatibility with adjacent metal surfaces, corrosion, continued resiliency with age and cyclic compression, air pressure sealing, bonding properties of caulking compounds, and effectiveness a s a function of age are treated elsewhere and will not be discussed in this paper."
"Start of the above-titled section of the conference proceedings record."
"The National Bureau of Standards has recently completed the development of prototype instrumentation for measuring the electric field components of complex, high-level, near-zone electromagnetic fields from O . 1 to 1 00 0 volts per meter, a t frequencies from 1 50 kHz to 30 MHz with a present uncertainty of less than ± 2 dB . The successful design of the NBS meters i s based o n the use o f a novel form o f telemetry, employing a completely non-metallic electrical transmission line, which apparently has not been fully exploited heretofore. This avoids the perturbing effects on the field being measured, usually caused by field-strength meters employing metallic RF transmission lines."
"The problem of predicting the relationship of the electric and magnetic field components i n the near field t o those i n the far field i s of particular interest in RFI investigations. The authors have recently had the opportunity to make experimental measurements of the rate of attenuation of electric and magnetic fields from the near to the far field at a number of different frequencies. The resulting data are presented herein together with a comparison to the theoretical attenuation of the field of an elementary radiator. The data have application in RFI work a s a n aid for evaluating interference problems and estimating the effectiveness of radiation suppression measures."
"The EMC Engineer is often interested in the magnitudes of the electric and magnetic field intensities near a radiating device. Expressions for the field intensities around a dipole antenna valid at all distances from the antenna, including distances which are a fractional part of the antenna's length, have been evaluated as a function of antenna length, frequency and distance to the point of interest using a digital computer. This paper discusses the assumptions made, the normalization and evaluation of the equations, the resulting curves showing the variations of field intensities as a function of frequency, distance and antenna length, and uses for these curves."
"At the present time antenna signature data is collected by several Government Laboratories and forwarded to ECAC for analysis purposes. Each of these present their data in a different format, therefore, prolonging the processing of the data and in some instances the data is never used. During this study efforts have been made to standardize the data format so that all signature data would be collected in the same manner for immediate use by ECAC. The format recommended provides ECAC with data that can be easily reduced into any one of many statistical forms for further analysis. In addition to providing ECAC with standardized data. the services (requesting prediction probabilities) will be able to obtain more accurate information in regards to Electromagnetic Interference (EMI) probabilities. In addition to the data format the following digital techniques were considered as techniques for collecting the data: 1) manual 2) semi-automatic, and 3) automatic."
"The recommended use of l og conical antennas for specification measurements is discussed. Antenna factors to be used with various measurement setups is described as well as the methods for determining the correct factors to be used. The radiation characteristics of the log conical antennas i s described and the advantages o f using circular polarized antennas is discussed. The advantages of using the antennas for measurements made with spectrum analyzers and sweep receivers on a broadband basis is given. Experimenta l and theoreti cal considerations are described and the range of variations permissible for specification measurement use is discussed. The use of the log conical antenna at distances other than the one meter described in the specifi cation is discussed and procedures for adapt i ng the antenna factors are described."
"Start of the above-titled section of the conference proceedings record."
"Values of initial magnetic permeability relative to free space have been determined by means of novel techniques which permit measurements on material in the form of a flat sheet, a box, or any other configuration containing at least a six-inch square flat surface. As a byproduct of the technique. electrical conductivity values relative to lCAS copper are also obtained for similar configurations."
"The spectrum analyzer is an important and frequently used test instrument in many electronics laboratories. The panoramic display of a desired portion of the RF spectrum can be a valuable aid in the test analysis and evaluation of various types of electronic equipment. Since the identification of undesired frequency components is, in many instances, a prerequisite to the solution of an electromagnetic compatibility problem the spectrum analyzer is a widely used test instrument for such applications. A typical situation might involve the analysis of a receiver IF output where the frequency measurement of each individual component is desired. Such a measurement is difficult to perform with a frequency counter, since the counter cannot discern the individual signals in the composite spectrum. The calibrated horizontal scale or crystal markers of a conventional spectrum analyzer may be used to give an approximation of the various frequency components under consideration, but the accuracy is limited to several factors, such as sleep linearity of the local oscillator and the ability of the operator to properly interpolate the frequency location of each component. The three related systems described in this paper provide an efficient and accurate method for measuring the frequency of each component in the composite spectrum."
"Past efforts toward automation of Electromagnetic Interference (EMI) measurements have been concentrated on mechanical and/or electronic scanning techniques which yield analog frequency and signal amplitude informat ion, and are therefore somewhat lacking in accuracy and resolution. Effort at LTV Electrosystems, however , has been concentrated on the application of incrementally tuned receiver techniques to EMI measurement problems and has resulted in an equipment capable of automatic acquisition and measurement of unknown signals while furnishing precise digital amplitude and frequency data . This paper presents the design features and applications of an instrument incorporating these techniques. This receiver was developed to satisfy special customer requirements for use in the 10 kHz t o 32 MHz frequency band."
"The calibration of RFI receivers using impulse generators is discussed. A brief description of electromechanical impulse generators is followed by a detailed description of the design and performance of an all solid state impulse generator. The solid state unit provides an essentially flat, calibrated frequency spectrum over the frequency range 10KHz to 1000MHz and useable energy up to X-band. In contrast to electromechanical devices, the solid state impulse generator has virtually unlimited life and exhibits negligible amplitude and time jitter."
"This paper covers development of a solid-state programable Interference Analyzer. New techniques were utilized to produce a design functional both separately and as a modular block in an automated interference analysis system."
"The development of automatic instrument systems cannot be gainfully achieved unless associated measurement techniques and procedures for the different instrument missions are also developed since the two are inseparable. Toward this end, this paper outlines a few of the different ways in which the Model 120A Automatic Spectrum Display and Signal Recognition System is used t o carry-out EMI specification measurements. A few o f the associated economics are also presented."
"Start of the above-titled section of the conference proceedings record."
"This paper discusses the need for electromagnetic compatibility (EMC) in a modern electronic system. In addition, it describes tests at the component and module level that can be used to determine probable system EMC problem areas. Since many of the electromagnetic interference (EMI) sources in a system generate impulsive-type noise, voltage transients can be employed to predict system performance. Some information about the EMI environment must be known, of course, even if it is theoretical. This information is used to establish the voltage amplitude and frequencies that may be expected in the system under study. A series of tests was performed on components and modules used in an operational missile guidance and control system. In these tests, selected components and modules were subjected to voltage transients of up to 600-volt amplitude. Pulse generation circuits and methods of coupling these to the test samples are described. The results of several component and module tests using voltage transients are presented, and their meaning when correlated to system EMC is discussed."
"This paper presents a simple method applicable to computer prediction for analyzing the interference effects of transients in the time domain. Since the time-domain characteristics of a transient are responsible for its interference potentiality, the best way to make an interference analysis of a complex network which is subjected to a transient disturbance · is to determine the time-domain characteristics of the disturbance at all points in the network to see if they exceed the susceptibility limits. By means of a straightline approximation method, it i s possible to determine the worst-case peak amplitude, the maximum rate of rise and the duration or energy content of the resulting transient at any point in a network, provided the same time characteristics at the insertion point and the parameters of the network are known or can be estimated. The procedure uses the frequency domain as a tool to get from the· time-domain characteristics of an input transient, through a complex network, and back to the time characteristics of the resulting transient appearing at a susceptible point in the network. The method has been verified by both exact calculations and by laboratory measurements and found to give results sufficiently accurate for interference prediction. The equations involved are extremely simple and lend themselves to computer analysis of large complex networks subjected to transients from any origin such as lightning, electromagnetic pulse, highlevel switching, or low-level impulses."
"Nuclear detonations generate high level electromagnetic fields. The strengths, gradient characteristics, and locations of the fields have become prime study areas for the nuclear nations. With knowledge of these factors at hand a defending nation can utilize the electromagnetic field o f its interceptor a s the kill mechanism against an enemy attack missile. The attacker then has the problem of hardening its offensive weapon to survive the enemy defense. This report treats the problem from the point of view of the attacker."
"This paper presents a simplified solution of complex coupling problems in both the frequency and time domain, that are common in the Aerospace industry. This approach consists in determining the transfer function (coupling factor), that exists between the interference and induced lines, using modified Electromagnetic Directional Coupler equations. Graphical techniques are presented to facilitate rapid solutions."
"The authors have developed a wideband multi-channel transient monitor system. The system has the capability of storing transient information from many test points on a single channel of magnetic tape. Upon playback of the tape, the information can be displayed, in real time, with no loss of high frequency information, and all the data is easily correlated with system test time."
"Start of the above-titled section of the conference proceedings record."
"Budget and schedule on the recently assembled Apollo Instrumentation Ships precluded on-board measurements on each of the 255 possible transmitter-receiver pairs. On the other hand, considerable knowledge of the equipment was necessary for test planning because each of the eleven systems was either built or purchased by a major supplier, who was responsible only for installation and checkout of his system. The analysis to be described resulted in placing each transmitter-receiver pair in one of three categories: definitely compatible, definitely incompatible, or too marginal to allow taking a definite stand without testing. The last two categories required examination during the on-board test program. Test plans were then individually tailored to the information required -some needed only one or two measurements to answer the questions raised during the paper analysis and others required quite extensive testing. Some test results will be discussed later in the paper."
"The commonality between reliability and electromagnetic compatibility can be stressed only by considering that both disciplines are involved in accomplishing similar goals though one be mathematical and one electronic. Parallelisms between specific work tasks indicate that this commonality is not \"far-fetched.\" It should be noted, however, that even though these disciplines overlap in principle that each is an essential tool for discovering di screpant areas and applying corrective action before \" it is too late.\" This paper emphasizes the need for developing an integrated relationship between the electromagnetic compatibility concept and the reliability concept s o that any duplication of effort can be eliminated without either function losing its individuality. To clarify my point , I am not suggesting that these two disciplines be combined into one effort, but rather that they be complementary; L e . , both efforts used jointly to increase the system reliability."
"The Electromagnetic Compatibility (EMC) program being conducted by McDonnell Aircraft Corporation for the United States Air Force RF-4C aircraft provides a wide variety of interference problems for the Electromagnetic Compatibility Manager. The RF-4C aircraft involves a high density installation of electronic, electrical and electro-optical subsystems, integrated to perform tactical reconnaissance missions . Early recognition of potential Electromagnetic Interference problems by McDonnell and the Air Force resulted in a strict Electromagnetic Compatibility control program. Design and Development, and Engineering Design Techniques are aircraft program phases now complete. These phases included: Design Procedures; Contractor and Government Furnished Airborne Equipment considerations; Aerospace Ground Equipment; Subsystem testing; Quality Assurance provisions; Engineering Design Techniques, and new manufacturing processes and methods. The requirements of MIL-I-26600 or MIL-I-6181D have been imposed on subsystems. Interface and interconnection aspects are continually assessed to achieve a high confidence level for weapon system compatibility. Figure 1 depicts the RF-4C project electronics organization. As can be seen, the EMC control group has equal voice with the other systems managers. This flexible and authoritative organization has proven successful. Further, the EMC group functions across departmental lines, into Electrical, Structural, Thermal and Aerodynamic groups. Aircraft projects, requirements, methods, and Aerospace Ground Equipment subgroups are designed to provide consistent program objectives necessary to achieve EMC of the weapon system. As a weapon system EMC program progresses the experienced nucleus of the group advances into other, more advanced, Phantom II model aircraft. It is a fine line that separates the subgroups when applying talent to a weapon system. A better analogy is the development of new requirements and methods for a following weapon system that the dividing line becomes evident. Inasmuch as the requirements and methods subsections support aircraft and AGE programs, this presentation will consider only these two subgroups."
"This paper discusses the characteristics of the Extremely High Frequency (EHF) spectrum and the equipment operating within the spectrum. These characteristics are related to the unique nature and extent of the Electromagnetic Compatibility (EMC ) analysis and Electromagnetic Interference (EMI) Control problems to be expected. Achieving EMC above 20 GHz is becoming increasingly important to the users of the EHF spectrum and the EMC community. Continued development and exploitation of the lower microwave region is resulting in spectral crowding which, in turn, will require greater utilization and exploitation of the much more open spectrum available at EHF. Consequently, the EMC community must plan for the control and orderly development of equipment for the utilization of the EHF spectrum."
"Consideration is directed toward electromagnetic compatibility as viewed from the control aspect. Emphasis is upon an intersystem approach of improving the overall electromagnetic environment."
"Start of the above-titled section of the conference proceedings record."
"With the present accelerated efforts in the area of micreelectronics, it becomes important to consider the electromagnetic compatibility problems peculiar to this rapidly expanding technology. Before the many advantages of microelectronics can be fully realized, equipments utilizing these circuits must be capable of operating in an adverse electromagnetic environment. A study was undertaken to examine the applicability of vacuum deposited thin metallic films for use as shields in Microelectronic circuits and equipments. An outcome of this study was the development of the shielding test instrument and the measurement technique discussed in this paper."
"Where shielding is required, it i s normal practice to provide completely integral coverings of the circuit to be protected, on the basis of the concept that a single penetration of the covering by electric current will vitiate the effectiveness of the arrangement. At high frequencies it is relatively easy to provide the required arrangement; however, at low frequencies where skin depths get relatively large, the provision of adequate thicknesses of shielding materials may not only be expensive, but their installation may hamper the overall effectiveness o f the system which is involved sufficiently to demand a careful look at the requirements. A particular situation is one in which susceptible cables run near sources of interference only over a restricted portion of their lengths. The installation of shields only over such critical regions would appear to be desirable. Since a partial shield presents a physical configuration which does not easily lend itself to analysis in a closed theoretical form, various quasi-analytic procedures must be used, and tentative conclusions confirmed experimentally. Rough calculations can be based upon reflection coefficients, skin depth, and physical configuration. A particular configuration of interest is one where the two cables cross each other at some specified angle. Since at low frequencies the fields from cables fall off generally inversely with the square of the distance, it is only the region near the intersection that i s of significance. Many different situations require examination, including parallel lines, twisted-pair lines and coaxial lines. These cases have to be examined where local ground loops are possible, a s well as where they are not possible. In each case shielding effectiveness must be carefully defined. The results indicate that there is considerable merit to the use of partial shields, and the paper will describe quantitative results that have been obtained experimentally and relate them to theoretical estimates. From these data criteria could be developed for the use of partial shields in each pertinent case."
"Electromagnetic theory is applied to the of establishing reliable and meaningful shielded enclosure RFI measurements. It is shown that numerous problems arising in practice are predictable from the theory. It is recognized that much remains to be done to resolve the problem. However, the work reported herein indicates that proper application of the theory should result in improved procedures, unique characterization o f RFI sources, improved data correlation, and data of value to the RFI analyst."
"An intensive literature survey has been conducted to review existing techniques for measuring the effectiveness of RF shielding enclosures . Prevalent methods of measuring E- and H- field components and for sensing the total field are discussed and evaluated. The procedures described in the literature are tabulated into groups as determined by their similarities in method or theory, and are compared by listing advantages and disadvantages inherent to each. (A weighting system is devised to aid in evaluating each of the principal methods discussed.) Also discussed are the theoretical considerations underlying each of the methods listed, as applicable to the measurement of shielding effectiveness. Among these are the concepts of the \"resultant wave impedance\" of the E-M field at a point inside a shielded enclosure, and the relationship of low impedance and high impedance fields in the \"near field\" regions of antenna systems. Techniques for extending the frequency and intensity of illuminating fields are also discussed, as well as the insertion loss method of determining leakage from a shield. Limitations and deficiencies of this latter procedure are noted."
"The problem of calculating the low-frequency shielding effectiveness of an enclosure is essentially the problem of computing magnetic shielding effectiveness. The circuit approximation to the shielding problem has been used with success to predict the shielding effectiveness of enclosures with mesh and solid walls. How ever, questions have been raised regarding the theoretical justification for this approximation and solutions of the electromagnetic field problem for a sphere suggest that, in the low frequency region, the circuit approach is a good characterization of the phenomena."
"Start of the above-titled section of the conference proceedings record."
"Start of the above-titled section of the conference proceedings record."
"This study reports on the ability to predict environmental signal densities that correlate closely with airborne signal measurements obtained with automated instrumentation. Measurements, taken over the north-central United States, identified the pulse signal distributions within the 1200 Mc /s to 1500 Mc/s band as a function of frequency and power level. These data were compared to predicted distributions. The prediction model utilized during the investigation was part of a standard Electromagnetic Compatibility Analysis Center ( ECAC) automated capability. Instrumentation was developed under the direction of the Air Force Avionics Laboratory of Wright-Patterson AFB, Ohio, and ECAC. Complete documentation of this investigation is contained in a joint ECAC/AFAL report."
"A digital computer model that simulates the radiation from ground-based pulsed radars is described and possible EMC applications are suggested. The model features great flexibility and can compensate for many types of gaps in available input data. It i s part of a set of models whose end product can be easily made to furnish interleaved pulse trains for testing symbolic models of receiving systems in a realistic simulation of their electromagnetic environment."
"Computer programs to help solve EMC problems are needed to reduce the time and cost of predicting the susceptibility and degradation of electronic systems when operating in high level ambient electromagnetic environments. Today, such environments are present everywhere o n the surface of the earth, at launch pads, in airborne situations, and in silos below the ground where electrical interference is predominant. Computer programs are needed also in making improvements in system design and testing. The purpose is to quickly assess the risk of an operation in terms of safety, reliability and operational success. A digital computer program capable of meeting these needs is described, using a ladder network model in computing the spectral distribution of power absorbed in an Electrical Initiator of a missile system exposed t o high level radio frequency fields. The availability of accurate input source data is essential. \" Receptor\" circuits composed of up to 150 radiated sections plus coupling from up to 40 \"Interfering\" circuits can be handled by the program. The program is written in Fortran IV for 7094 computers."
"The purpose of this paper is to point out some of the properties of mixer operating in the switching mode and to discuss some of the effects that changes in the waveform of the local oscillator signal have on mixer responses. The operation of most mixers at high local oscillator drive levels can be described in terms of a switching function which includes the width modulation effects caused by the small input signal, it is possible to calculate the levels of the various mixer responses for a variety of local oscillator waveforms. Because it isolates the switching function from the width modulating effects of the input signal, a square wave local oscillator signal is effective in reducing the levels of responses associated with harmonics of the input signal."
"The paper briefly reviews the theory of intermodulation responses in superheterodyne receivers. The frequency bands of the responses are determined and factors affecting susceptibility levels as well as quantitative values for a typical crystal mixer input superheterodyne receiver are presented. On the basis of this groundwork, it is shown that the receiver's primary and spurious responses may be conveniently presented in graphical form. The graphical presentation can include the effects of input band-pass filters and tunable preselectors, and provides a grid upon which an electromagnetic environment may be superimposed."
"Conference proceedings front matter may contain various advertisements, welcome messages, committee or program information, and other miscellaneous conference information. This may in some cases also include the cover art, table of contents, copyright statements, title-page or half title-pages, blank pages, venue maps or other general information relating to the conference that was part of the original conference proceedings."
"Presents the table of contents/splash page of the proceedings record."
"Conference proceedings back matter may contain various advertisements, indexes, and other miscellaneous conference information. This may in some cases also include committee or program information, blank pages, venue maps or other general information relating to the conference that was part of the original conference proceedings."
"The effects of exposure to high-energy radiation can produce both transient and permanent changes in plastic materials. The former are evidenced by such behavior as induced electrical conductivity and thermoluminance; the latter by changes in chemical structure which in their turn produce marked physical changes, both electrical and mechanical."
"The conductivity induced in insulators by exposure to ionizing radiation can be described by considering a three-stage process: generation of free carriers (electrons and holes) by the radiation, the motion of these free carriers under the influence of density gradients (diffusion) and electric fields (drift), and the immobilization of the carriers by trapping at defect sites or by electron — hole recombination. These same processes have been discussed for the production of conductivity in insulating materials by optical and ultraviolet illumination. Experimental results on photoconductivity1 have shown that the magnitude of the electrical conductivity is not necessarily proportional to the instantaneous optical intensity. Instead, both sublinear and superlinear responses have been observed. In general, these nonlinearities have been explained by postulating that the occupancy of the finite number of available carrier-trapping sites is changed as the number of carriers flowing into them is increased by increasing the illumination. As a result, the number of sites available for trapping extra carriers changes and the mean lifetime of the extra carriers may either increase or decrease with increasing illumination. The same model has been applied to conductivity produced by ionizing radiation.2 Similar nonlinearities have been observed in experiments performed with high-energy ionizing radiation, such as electrons, gamma rays, χ rays from bremsstrahlung produced by high-energy electrons, protons, and ionizing recoils from fast neutron collisions. In a fashion similar to the photoconductivity theories, it has been assumed that the ionization-induced conductivity could be described by a power law, σ = KDδ, where Κ is a constant characteristic of the material, D is the instantaneous ionization dose rate, and δ is a power in the vicinity of one usually lying between 0. 5 and 1.2."
"It has long been recognized that the probability of immediate recombination of a pair of ions formed in a gas at high pressure depends on the initial separation of the ions and can be very high for ion pairs produced by ionizing radiation.1 Similarly, radiation chemists have, for some time, been aware of the fact that, in liquids, most of the ion pairs created by high-energy radiation immediately recombine.2 Recently it has become apparent that similar considerations are important when electron-hole pairs are generated in low-mobility organic insulators."
"The action of high-energy radiation on the mechanical and structural properties of polymethyl methacrylate (PMMA) is fairly well known. However, the action of radiation on the electrical properties of the material, such as transient and dc conductivity, and permittivity, has not been studied extensively, and its interpretation is in a state of growing controversy."
"Numerous experiments on dielectric materials have been performed at a variety of pulsed radiation sources including pulsed reactors, linear accelerators, and flash x-ray machines. The purpose of this work is to examine the properties of the electron-band model as applied to Mylar and polystyrene at dose rates of about 1011 rad/sec."
"Polymers form an important class of insulating materials, and as a result a considerable body of experimental dielectric strength data has been obtained· An understanding of the breakdown mechanism is required to make effective use of this information, however, and polymer breakdown is the least understood part of the poorly understood subject of dielectric breakdown in solids. We will look at polymer breakdown anew with the aim of understanding the mechanism."
"The behavior of electrons injected into amorphous hydrocarbon systems, such as many polymers and liquids, is of interest from a number of viewpoints. For the purposes of the present symposium it is perhaps sufficient to note that any electronic theory of breakdown of such materials requires a detailed knowledge of electron — molecule interactions and that presently this information is meager."
"A 6.4-MV impulse generator was used to create 15-ft sparks in air between a negative rod and a grounded plane. In the absence of breakdown the voltage applied to the spark gap was the standard 1. 5 × 40 wave. Spark current rose to a peak value of about 7, 000 A in about 5 usee and subsequently fell to half-value in about 5 μsec. Spectra (3, 900 to 8, 900 Å) were recorded on film with 2-μsec time resolution."
"The precise voltages for the electrical breakdown of air gaps between spherical electrodes are used as reference standards for high-voltage measurements, especially for fast-rising voltage pulses. The use of spheres is preferable to uniform field geometry largely because of the inability to obtain precise alignment of electrodes contoured for uniform fields. The scatter is smaller and the repeatability better with the use of spherical electrodes."
"The significant information related to breakdown in dielectric liquids which has recently been obtained from experiments on liquid argon1 has made it seem possible that a similar study of solid argon might yield a better understanding of the mechanism of breakdown in dielectric solids. Although practical applications of solid argon are few because of its very inertness, nevertheless it has the advantage that an electrical discharge in it will produce only the parent gas which will ultimately return to the solid state, thereby refilling the discharge channel. Thus a number of measurements may be carried out on the one sample of solid, unlike breakdown tests on other solids which destroy the sample after a single discharge."
"Preliminary or pilot sparks have been observed with alternating voltages during breakdown tests on gaseous and liquid insulation for over 50 yr and their occurrence in oil gaps has been reported often."
"Studies of light emission from electrically stressed n-hexane have been reported in two earlier papers,1,2 and the present investigation is a continuation of that work in order to determine the spectral content of the light observed and provide further information leading to the understanding of high field conduction and breakdown."
"The static permittivity of polar dielectrics is, in general, a function of temperature. This effect has two related consequences: a change in the temperature of a capacitor with a temperature-sensitive dielectric (at constant charge) will change the voltage and the stored energy; and, conversely, an instantaneous change in the electric field applied to such a dielectric may produce an instantaneous change in its temperature. The first of these phenomena has been studied extensively as a means for converting solar heat to electrical energy for possible space applications.1–8 The effect of high fields in producing local instantaneous temperature changes is a possible factor in breakdown."
"The electrical conductance properties of an ideal polymeric insulation are shown in Figure 1. The ac conductance, resulting from oscillation of polar structures or bound ions in the polymer, is frequency dependent, attaining a constant level at some frequency which is high with respect to the relaxation time for the polymer. Direct-current conduction is time dependent and decays to a value of zero for an ideal polymer with no free ions available for carrying the current."
"This paper discusses the electronic behavior of the surface of insulating solids whose binding is at least partially ionic. The reference to ionic bonding is made for the sake of generality: all inorganic compound solids possess a certain degree of ionicity in their binding. Just as in bulk solids, the electronic states of the surface can be labeled either intrinsic or extrinsic. The intrinsic are the states that exist solely because of the termination of the lattice by the surface plane. The extrinsic may arise from any departure from the ideal periodicity of the lattice other than the presence of the surface itself. One important type of extrinsic surface state is that of a chemisorbed atom or molecule. This review discusses the physical origins of, as well as the interactions between, these two types of surface states."
"The photomultiplier technique, in conjunction with a fast 517 Tektronix oscilloscope, is used with a movable slit to measure the light from corona streamers as they progress from a positive point to the cathode, and at the required pulsed-voltage level to trigger off a filamentary spark as it crosses the gap. This technique is similar to the method used by Loeb and Hudson1 and Amin,2 and is also described in Loeb's book.3"
"In the course of high-temperature dc-conductivity measurements of aluminum oxide in a range above 1,000°C, Peters et al.1 reported in 1965, that the measured currents between electrodes were of the same order whether aluminum oxide or an equivalent air gap was present. It appeared that air at these temperatures was as conductive as aluminum oxide. In further experiments, these investigators substituted helium and argon, since these have a higher ionization energy. At first investigators presumed that this was a thermal ionization of the gas. The thermal ionization of gases, according to the Saha equation, is a negative exponential function of the molecular ionization energy. The experiments of Peters et al. showed, however, that the high-temperature conduction current was altered only a little when these other gases replaced the air."
"A new bridge, operating in the frequency range 0.001–10,000 Hz, and featuring improved convenience of operation and high accuracy, has been built at the National Bureau of Standards, under NASA sponsorship. Though designed chiefly to measure dielectric properties, it is also capable of measuring the conductance of resistors in the range 108–1014 Ω. Large loss angles are no great problem. In the frequency range 0.01–15 Hz, capacitance resolution of 5 ppm and loss-angle resolution of 5 μrad is easily achieved. It is not yet known what resolution and accuracy will characterize the frequencies between 70 and 10, 000 Hz, but it is expected to diminish. Existing bridges cover this range better."
"This paper is an extension of the work presented to the 1964 conference.1 In that paper the thermal dielectric strength of several glasses at various temperatures was measured and calculated for specimens 2 mm thick. This paper extends the techniques developed in the earlier paper to variation in sample thickness."
"Data published on polytetrafluoroethylene, such as the government-supported EPIC Report S-3,1 probably do not reflect the recent advances in techniques for measuring dielectric properties. Our work was initiated in an attempt to provide dielectric data representative of the measurement accuracy available today."
"In an oil-impregnated paper cable the resistivity varies exponentially with temperature and very nearly exponentially with stress, so that the true dc stress-distribution equation cannot be solved analytically. If the effect of stress is ignored, the equation presented by Bragin applies E(r) = [Vβ(r/ro)β-1]/[r0(μβ-1)] where E(r) is the stress at radius r, V the applied voltage, r0 the conductor radius, r1 the sheath radius, μ = r1/r0, β = bKW/2π, b is the temperature coefficient of resistivity, K the thermal resistivity, and W the conductor dissipation."
"The theory of thermal instability was first analyzed in detail by Wagner.1 He assumed that thermal instability occurred locally due to a concentration of current in highly conductive filaments. His results indicate that the breakdown voltage is proportional to the thickness of the insulation. Wagner's theory was later supplemented by Rogowski,2 who introduced a term involving the voltage gradient in order to bring the theoretical results in line with the experimental evidence available at that time. The effects of field strength were disregarded by other authors until recent times. Further work was done on the equations for thermal equilibrium in solid insulation by Dreyfus.3 The first broad treatment of electrothermal breakdown was carried out by Fock,4 who considered both thin and thick specimens. He indicates that for thin specimens the breakdown voltage is proportional to the square root of the thickness, while for thick specimens the breakdown voltage is independent of the thickness. Fock's calculations were later simplified by Moon.5"
"Because of increasing demands for electric power transmission over long distances, there has been renewed interest in dc transmission. Where long cable lines are involved (such as for long submarine crossings) ac systems have a definite limitation caused by charging current requirements of the cable capacitance.1 At some length of line, the current required just to supply the charging current will exceed the current-carrying capacity of the cable. To overcome this limitation, dc systems, which do not have this problem, have been considered. For many years, no suitable terminal equipment was available. However, with the development of high-voltage grid-controlled mercury-arc rectifiers by ASEA of Sweden, practical systems have been made possible. Terminal equipment is still expensive; however, dc transmission has proved to be the economic solution in a number of cases, and such systems are in operation in several locations throughout the world."
"It can be claimed that gases at elevated pressure are the logical and, perhaps, inevitable, replacement for atmospheric air as the primary insulating medium for transmission of high-voltage power. Such compressed gas-insulated lines would reduce or eliminate most of the problems of open overhead lines, i. e., the inadequate insulating strength of air at 1 atm, corrosive contamination of insulators, exposure to lightning, radio interference, need for extensive rights-of-way, and the alleged unsightliness of overhead lines."
"It is common practice to retain a portion of the aromatic constituents originally present in mineral oils in order to minimize gas evolution in cable-insulating oils under intense field conditions. However, the retention of aromatic fractions not only lowers the oxidation resistance of the oils, but has been also observed1 to influence adversely the magnitude of their dielectric loss. In cognizance of the latter effect, it was considered desirable to study the influence of aromatic fractions in oils upon the over-all loss mechanism in oil-impregnated paper insulations of the type employed in high-voltage power cables. An investigation was therefore undertaken on cable models constructed with kraft paper impregnated first with oils having different aromatic contents but equal viscosities and second with oils having equal aromatic contents but different viscosities."
"Four years ago a paper was submitted describing the Mole-type discharge detector designed to detect and measure individual discharges. The instrument to be described is complementary to the ERA Discharge Detector providing an integrated measurement of discharge energy per cycle and also yielding a visual display, descriptive of the type of discharging, together with loss-tangent and capacitance values, for the specimen."
"Results of many observations of radar echoes of the clear-air dot angel type at Austin, Tex., are reported. Measurements were made at two wavelengths, λ=3.3 cm and λ=9.1 cm, using nearly identical antenna beams pointed vertically. Results suggest particulate matter, probably insects, as the source of most clear-air dot angel echoes. Other clear-air angel-type echoes which were observed on rare occasions are believed to originate at inversion layers. They were received only on S-hand and did not exhibit the same characteristics as most echoes of the dot angel type."
"A technique for measuring the frequency variations of ionospherically propagated radio waves by spectrum analysis of the received signal is described, together with some theory needed to interpret such measurements. Examples of the types of variations observed with both vertical and oblique propagation are presented. On “quiet” days in middle latitudes, frequency variations of the order of ± 0.2 c/s occur, having periods of the order of 10 min. During disturbed periods the variations may be as much as 2 to 3 c/s on 5 Mc/s with vertical propagation. The frequency stability is generally greater for oblique propagation than for vertical propagation; however, the received spectrum is broader for oblique propagation. The frequency stability of E echoes is, in general, much greater than that of F2 echoes. At night and during some geomagnetic storms, the discrete (line) spectra give way to diffuse spectra. During periods of flutter fading at low latitudes, the discrete spectra are transformed into continua with frequency spreads of up to ± 5 c/s about the mean value. Distinctive frequency deviations are caused by solar flares, geomagnetic disturbances, and traveling ionospheric disturbances. Of these, the solar-flare-induced frequency variations are the most striking. Deviations of up to 50 c/s have been observed on WWV −10 Mc/s received at Boulder during flares. However, frequency deviations associated with solar flares have a most probable duration of about 4 min, and the majority of them have magnitudes less than 1 c/s."
"An analytical expression is derived for the probability distribution of the phase difference between two spaced antennas excited by a random fan of rays plus a specular component. From this expression, graphs showing the variation of the standard deviation as a function of the coherence ratio and the autocorrelation coefficient of the scattered part of the incident angular power spectrum are presented. Some consideration is given to the properties of the functions 〈cos χ〉 and 〈a1 a2〉 (where χ is the phase difference and a1, a2 are the amplitudes at each antenna) and of the covariance C(a1 a2, cos χ)."
"Previous workers have shown that by taking into account the nonzero dimensions of actual dipoles, the infinity catastrophes of the impedance of VLF dipoles (X ≫ 1, Y ≫ 1) in a magnetoplasma, as well as of the far fields, are eliminated. Nevertheless, the use of very small dipoles may still not lead to valid results if collisionless magneto-ionic theory is utilized. Criteria are established for temperature and collision effects which modify magneto-ionic results, depending on the relative magnitudes of source dimensions, electron temperature, and collision frequency. Ion mobility effects are not taken into account. In the extreme case, radiation of very. small dipoles in a sparse low-temperature plasma with high d-c magnetic field cannot be predicted by linearized plasma-kinetic theory."
"A model of a re-entry plasma layer is analyzed by using the linearized hydrodynamic equations for a single-fluid warm plasma medium. The model consists of a perfectly conducting plane of infinite extent covered by a warm plasma layer of uniform density. The field excited by a magnetic line source located on the conducting plane is computed by Fourier transform techniques. Expressions are obtained for the far-zone radiation field and for the surface waves guided by the plasma layer. Numerical results are presented that show the dependence of the energy transported by these waves on frequency and electron temperature. In addition, the radiation pattern of the far-zone field is computed for various frequencies and electron temperatures."
"An infinitely long helical sheath antenna driven by a ring delta-function generator is considered. The Fourier transform technique is used to solve this problem. It is found that if βb < 2.4048, the current distribution far away from the driving point can be decomposed into a surface-wave current and a radiating current. The former is constant in magnitude with a phase velocity less than the speed of light, the latter decays as 1/z2 and has a phase constant β. The radiation pattern of the space wave is calculated. The power radiated by the space wave, guided by the surface wave, and the efficiency of excitation of the surface wave are also determined. Numerical results are presented."
"Based on a method briefly discussed before for nonuniformly spaced symmetric antenna arrays, new conclusions arising from numerical results are presented here. The results are obtained by applying Haar's theorem where the “minimax” error criterion rather than the ordinary least-mean-square criterion is used. With respect to a set of element spacings, the solution obtained has the following properties: (1) the maximum deviation between the synthesized and desired patterns is minimized (2) the sidelobes are approximately equal and their level can be made minimum for a specified beamwidth, (3) both the sidelobe level and the beamwidth can be improved simultaneously by adjusting each excitation and the positions of inner pairs of elements, and therefore a better performance than the Dolph-Chebyshev array for the same number of elements and an equal overall array length is possible, (4) a minimum number of elements required to yield a pattern of approximately equal sidelobes can be determined, and (5) the solution can be unique. The method is valid for arrays consisting of either isotropic sources or directional elements."
"Using Friedlander's solution for the diffraction of a pulse from a wedge, contours of constant electric and magnetic field are plotted for an electromagnetic plane wave pulse incident on a perfectly conducting wedge for different wedges and angles of incidence, and for TM and TE polarizations."
"The type of the functions appearing in the expressions for electromagnetic fields in finite magnetoplasmas depends only on the properties of the medium manifested in separation constants. The ω–β plane of the Brillouin diagram is partitioned into a definite number of zones characterized by the type of possible field solutions. The general behavior of the separation constants in the ω–β plane including the complex region based on calculations covering a wide variation of the determining parameter is described. Effects of ion motions are discussed, and the generality of the presented approach is pointed out."
"Some comments are offered as to the major types of sporadic E from the causal standpoint (e.g., plasma instabilities, precipitation of charged particles, and wind shear and turbulence). The Cavendish Conference in 1958 on “sporadic E ionization” is reviewed, and extracts from the introductory and concluding statements of this conference are quoted with the thought that they are equally pertinent to the present conference. Finally it is suggested that, from the scientific standpoint, the role of ground-based radio experiments is to define the horizontal structure and height of sporadic E clouds."
"From the statistical result of sporadic E propagation carried out on the frequency of 50 Mc/s, there is, in general, a fairly good correlation between the received field intensity and the critical frequency of the sporadic Flayer measured at apex. This relation, however, is not always valid for each case; i.e., the transmission loss of the received signal depends not only on the value of f0ES, but also on the layer thickness and the distribution of electron density within the layer. The distribution of electron density in the sporadic E layer is deduced from both data of transmission loss and critical frequency at apex, if the sporadic E layer is assumed to be an extremely thin ionized layer."
"Short-term characteristics of sporadic E propagation were observed on a forward-scatter radio link equipped with an angle-of-arrival measuring device.1 The evolution with time of the field intensity n, the fading rate N, and the width Δα of the angular spectrum was studied in detail for several typical Es events. It reveals the coexistence of two distinct structural types of layers characterized as follows:"
"Some noticeable phenomena in Es propagation are introduced, extracting from a paper entitled “Characteristics of Ionospheric Sporadic E Propagation and Calculations of Its Signal Strength,” together with new material prepared for the Es seminar."
"Ionospheric wind patterns between 90 and 150 km were studied by distortion of chemiluminous vapor trails released from rockets. Fifteen trails, closely paired in space or time, are reported. Profiles show well-organized sinusoidal patterns of near-constant wavelength, if the vertical coordinate is measured in integrated scale heights rather than kilometers. Dominant wavelength is 2–4 scale heights, similar in NS and EW components, and phase progresses downward about 1 wavelength per night. Horizontally spaced trails show vertical profile displacement corresponding to horizontal scales of 1000–4000 km in NS wind, longer in EW profiles. Viscous energy dissipation from observed waves is a significant heat source at 150 km altitude."
"The general characteristics of ionospheric winds during twilight have been determined from observations of the motion and growth of sunlit trails of alkali vapor. Typical large shears and small features are described. Specific wind profiles are compared with nearly simultaneous measurements of electron concentration from rocket-borne probes. Generally, the narrow regions of enhanced electron concentration measured by the probes do not occur in the low velocity region of an E-W shear. However, the ionization peaks appear to be associated with certain other features of the wind profile."
"Winds revealed by 29 sodium vapor trails, as reported by Manring et al. [1964],1 have been analyzed to determine prevailing and tidal components at heights of 90–130 km. This was accomplished for each of several levels in turn, by averaging separately the winds observed at dawn and at dusk; the difference between the two average values was attributed to the diurnal component, which would be roughly in antiphase at dawn relative to dusk, while the mean of the two average values was attributed to a prevailing wind plus a semidiurnal component. The results of the analysis are depicted in the accompanying figure, which gives hodographs of the half-difference and the half-sum of the dawn and dusk averages. The probable errors of the averages are estimated to be about 12 m/s, and the probable errors of the points plotted in the hodographs are therefore about 17 m/s. The nature of the analysis and its limitations are discussed more fully in a paper now in press [Hines, 1966].2"
"In 1964 several rockets were fired in Hammaguir, Algeria, in order to study the sporadic E region."
"Observations of structural features of the electron density profile of the E region are presented. These were obtained using a rocket-borne probe having a resolution of about 10 m in height and about 1 percent in electron density. Daytime profiles show thin-layer Es having sharply defined upper and lower boundaries and a thickness of a few km. At night, the profiles at midlatitudes are characterized by the generally irregular nature below 120 km. The marked tendency to horizontal stratification is noted."
"A radio propagation experiment designed to measure very low electron densities was flown over the sunrise period on July 15, 1964. Two strong sporadic E layers were noticed during each of the three flights, with densities of the order of 105 cm−3. The characteristics of these sporadic E layers are discussed in detail, with reference both to the characteristics of the radio signal propagated to the rocket, and to the detailed ionograms taken immediately preceding and following the flight."
"The assumptions on which the wind-shear theory of temperate zone sporadic E is based are outlined and the formulation of the theory is described for the cases in which a single ion and many ions, both positive and negative, are present. Among the implications of the theory which agree with observations are that a zone of reduced occurrence of this type of sporadic E should occur at the geomagnetic dip equator, and elsewhere the occurrence should be roughly correlated with the horizontal component of the geomagnetic field. It is pointed out that horizontal electric polarization fields and vertical motion of the wind profile can affect the formation of layers, thus leading to difficulties in the interpretation of observations of winds and electron density profiles. The effect of the presence of many types of ion is discussed, and it is shown that if all the ions are positive, then the maximum electron density attained in a layer is determined by the ion with the smallest recombination coefficient, while the electron density outside the layer is much less depleted than it would be in the single-ion case. Meteoritic ions in particular must react strongly to the presence of wind shears, and these may play an important part in the formation of sporadic E layers, especially at night. The effect of negative ions is also considered, and it is shown that these can lead to the formation of layers of positive ion density at apparently anomalous positions under suitable conditions."
"The wind-shear theory of sporadic E predicts that when only one ion species is present, and the peak electron density is a factor R times the ambient, the minimum electron density is 1/R of the ambient. With two species present, the minimum electron density is greater than this and approaches the ambient when the ratio of recombination coefficients is large and the more rapidly recombining ion predominates in the ambient ionsphere. The peak density depends only on the recombination coefficient of the slowly recombining ion and the gradient in the vertical drift motion. The problem of nighttime sporadic E is considered, but no satisfactory solution is offered."
"The present status of our knowledge concerning sporadic E in middle latitudes, wind-shear theory of the formation of sporadic E, and wind systems in the ionospheric E region is briefly summarized. Then, possible correlations between sporadic E in middle latitudes and ionospheric current and wind systems estimated from geomagnetic variations are discussed from the point of view of the wind-shear theory."
"Applying the method of instability analysis of weakly ionized plasmas, it is shown that the ionosphere at the height 100–120 km at temperate latitudes is capable of producing irregularities in charge density in the presence of vertical gradients of background charge density, external electric and geomagnetic fields. Worldwide distribution of local time versus geomagnetic latitudes where f0Es exceeds 5 Mc/s is compared with that theoretically predicted. Results obtained seem to be an evidence that such a mechanism, other than that of wind shear, is also responsible for the formation of sporadic E at temperate latitudes."
"We discuss the mechanism producing ionization irregularities by wind motion in the ionosphere, showing that the geomagnetic field resists the production by scaloidal wind as sound waves, but induces the production by toroidal wind as turbulence. The electric polarization set up tends to impede the formation, but dissipates along high conductive field lines of the geomagnetic field, if the wind motion varies along the magnetic field. We discuss the effect of the electric field on the layer formation, illustrating its time variation when a uniform electric field and a height-dependent horizontal wind exist."
"There are many problems yet to be resolved in this field. If it is assumed that the major ions in sporadic E are NO+ and $O^{+}_{2}$, then ionospheric studies and laboratory measurements suggest an appropriate value of α (the recombination coefficient) to be of order 10−7 cm3 sec−1 at room temperatures. This conflicts with the highest value of a tolerable to wind-shear theory of about 3 × 10−8 cm3 sec−1. High electron temperatures in sporadic E clouds may reduce this discrepancy if a decreases with increase of temperature. In its present stage of development the wind-shear theory does not account for the high electron temperatures sometimes observed in association with sporadic E, nor does it account for the magnetic variation observed in association with sporadic E clouds. The possibility of an airglow component caused by recombination in sporadic E clouds is discussed. We conclude that measurements of ion composition, electron temperature, electric current, and VLF noise in sporadic E clouds should provide valuable clues in the further understanding of the phenomenon."
"In a summary of the “radio” measurements of sporadic E we cannot extricate ourselves completely from consideration of the other measurements considered in this conference. For some purposes, the radio propagation characteristics provide us with a means of diagnosing properties of the E region; for other purposes, experimental results obtained in alternative ways permit us a means of interpreting the radio propagation. In this seminar it has been possible to bring more clearly into focus the physical relationship between the various radio propagation phenomena as observed from the ground and the electron density variations which cause these phenomena. For completeness, the field of “radio” measurements of Es should also include those rocket measurements which depend upon the integrated radio path from ground to rocket. These rocket measurements are distinct from the ground-based radio observations in that interpretation of the rocket observations yields a relatively unambiguous measure of atmospheric properties in a restricted volume centered on the rocket trajectory. The propagation phenomena which first provided us with the name “sporadic E” result from an integration of effects distributed over volumes some tens of km in extent."
"A considerable amount of data on the electron density profile of Es layers has been accumulated starting with Seddon's1 experiments using his CW propagation technique. More recent data have been presented at this conference. The motivation for recent observations has resulted from the wind-shear theory. It should be pointed out that the determination of winds by the vapor-trail technique is at present limited to night and twilight observations. Now, Es in midlatitudes, where most of these observations are being taken, is primarily a daytime phenomenon, and the basic statistical information on Es has been derived from ground-based radio techniques. Thus the rocket data is unfortunately biased by the nighttime observations."
"There have been five reports at this meeting on ionospheric winds which, at first appearance, seem somewhat at variance. Further analysis shows them to be in reasonable agreement, probably because all are based on the same type of data, i.e., midlatitude winds from luminous trails."
"In summarizing the status of the theory of the sporadic E layer it is necessary to distinguish four steps, on each of which it is necessary for the theoreticians to agree before it can be said that the problem is solved from a theoretical standpoint. These are as follows:"
"Planning for the elucidation of the nature of sporadic E ionization must take into account the following factors:"
"Some connection between sporadic E layer irregularities and incoming extraterrestrial dust at heights of 110 km and above has been indicated by the comparison of optical radar and ionosonde data [Fiocco, 1965]. The object of this note is primarily to point out the possible importance of the influx of extraterrestrial dust to the energy balance of the E region. Much independent evidence suggests that the average influx rate on earth of small particles of extraterrestrial origin, ranging in diameter from 0.1 μ to 100 μ, is of the order of 104 tons/day and that peaks of the order of 105 tons/day or even 106 tons/day may be possible. If these estimates are correct, and since the particles enter the earth's atmosphere at speeds of the order of 10 km/s, their influx may represent an average energy input for a vertical column in the E region of the order of 10−2 erg/cm2 sec and as high as 1 erg/cm2 sec. If it were possible to fully convert this energy into ionization, for a column of 10-km length and a recombination coefficient α=10−8 cm3 sec−1, electron densities of the order of 105 cm−3 and higher would be achieved, which are in excess of what is needed in a sporadic E layer. While this process may therefore in some cases supply the background ionization necessary for the formation of the layer, and other processes may be operative in organizing the distribution of charge in space, it is possible that the way by which the dust particles dissipate their energy may, by itself, directly lead to the formation of a layer. The energy of small particles characterized by a constant area-over-mass ratio would be dissipated in a height interval of a few tens of kilometers, the length of the interval depending upon size and angle of incidence. However, fragmentation in flight of the micrometeoroids due to mechanical, thermal, and electric effects [Fiocco and Colombo, 1964J may cause the dissipation to take place in a much shorter interval of altitudes, possibly less than a scale height."
"No abstract is available."
"No abstract is available."
"No abstract is available."
"Doppler frequency changes for a vertically incident and reflected radio wave caused by a redistribution of electrons in the ionosphere due to drift motions set up by an electric field across the earth's main magnetic field are discussed. The Doppler frequency change is given as a linear function of the two horizontal components of the electric field with coefficients which are functions of the relevant ionospheric parameters and the frequency of the sounding radio wave. The Doppler frequency, change can also be given as a function of the intensity of the magnetic variation, provided that a suitable relation can be found between the intensity of the magnetic variation observed on the earth's surface and the intensity of the electric field in the ionosphere. The Doppler frequency change has been given in this way for two cases; one is for a uniform time-changing magnetic field parallel to the geomagnetic axis which roughly represents the Chapman-Ferraro field for sudden commencements of geomagnetic storms. The other is for the field due to alternating electric currents in the ionosphere. Several theoretical predictions have been made which can be compared with observations. The amount of the Doppler shift is about 1 c/s in middle latitudes for a 4-Mc/s sounding wave for a sudden commencement with a time scale of 4 min, and magnitude several tens of gammas. The Doppler shift due to alternating currents in the ionosphere amounts to only 1 c/s for a 4-Mc/s radio wave with a 50−γ amplitude of oscillation in the magnetic field intensity."
"The validity of the multilayer approximation for the study of acoustic-gravity wave propagation in the atmosphere is demonstrated in the limit of small layer thicknesses. The principal basis of the justification is the existence of two coupled first-order differential equations with coefficients which do not depend explicitly on derivatives of the sound speed with respect to height."
"Ray tracing for whistler-mode propagation has been performed with the effects of ions included. The method is similar to that employed by Yabroff but for the modification in the refractive index due to ions. Outstanding characteristics of the ray paths in such a medium result from the existence of purely transverse propagation at the lower frequencies. The main purpose of this study is to confirm the Smith interpretation of the “subprotonospheric” whistlers. It is found that an enhancement of electron density at the latitude of interest can support the ray path of the fractional hop as Smith suggested, as well as a possibility of successive echoes through a single path. The effect of collisions on propagation is also discussed."
"This paper describes spatial selective fading (interference patterns due to modal arrival angle differences) as a homogeneous random process. It is shown that for ionospheric propagation, the power spectrum in vector wave number (wave number dispersion profile) should be of approximately the same shape as the power spectrum in time delay (time-delay profile). On the basis of this similarity, it is suggested that the correlation between signals from spaced antennas (spatial coherence) should be inversely proportional to rms time-delay spread. An experiment was performed on a 4100-km path at 7 and 14 Mc/s to verify this assumption. Results are generally in agreement with theory, and discrepancies that do exist are analyzed."
"A circularly symmetrical conical wave, in which EΦ is the only component of the electric vector, is incident upon a circularly symmetrical plasma column of radius a in which the electron density is proportional to (a2/r2)−1 for a radial distance r ⩽ a, and is zero for r > a. The change in phase on reflection is determined as a function of the angle of incidence. A circularly symmetrical beam of radiation can be synthesized as an angular spectrum of conical waves, and the corresponding reflected beam is easily obtained in integral form. The position of maximum intensity in the reflected beam is found by making use of the principle of stationary phase. The results obtained are compared with ray theory and with a previous calculation for a linear gradient of electron density in a planar geometry."
"A brief discussion is given of a recently published NBS Technical Note which treats propagation of low-frequency radio waves in the vicinity of a nuclear explosion. An ionized plasma is induced in the upper atmosphere as a result of radioactive debris deposited by the nuclear event. The plasma contains a gas mixture of positive and negative heavy ions as well as electrons, all of which increase the normal ionization of the upper atmosphere and the ionosphere, and as a result cause increased attenuation of low-frequency waves. The effective height of the upper boundary of the waveguide propagation model is deduced from a study of transmission of the wave into the plasma for any variation of the plasma properties with height. Since reflections occur at all points where the plasma is varying with height, this effective height can only be approximate, and moreover depends on the definition of the concept of effective height."
"It is well known that ionospheric reflections modify the shape of the waveforms of atmospherics. In this paper an attempt is made to deduce theoretically the shape of the waveform of the pulse radiated by a lightning discharge, after it has undergone successive reflections at the ionospheric layer. To this end, the return-stroke current due to the lightning discharge is assumed to follow the usual double exponential formula with Kimpara's values of the constants. The ionosphere is taken to be a sharply bounded homogeneous medium and the geometric reflection is assumed to hold. Using Fresnel's reflection coefficient, an expression is obtained for the final shape of the reflected pulse. The plots of this expression for the different orders of reflection show that relative to the amplitude of the positive half of the reflected pulse waveform, the negative half increases in amplitude with the order of reflection. It is observed that there is a decrease in the quasi-frequency of the reflected pulse waveform with the increase in the order of reflection. Some reflection types of waveforms have actually shown these features."
"Starting with Minkowski's theory, the constitutive relation for a moving anisotropic medium is first derived and then the problem of radiation due to an arbitrary time-harmonic source is formulated through an operational method. In particular, the field solution of an electric dipole in a moving, uniaxial, anisotropic medium is obtained. 1 This work was partially supported by the National Aeronautics and Space Administration under Grant NsG–395."
"The electro-magneto-plasma-gas-dynamics (EMPGD) equations are given for the warm, compressible electron gas, with no magnetostatic field, drifting with a constant velocity, by taking into account the fluid dynamics variables of the electron gas and using small-signal theory. Assuming harmonic time variation, an algebraic equation is found for the refractive index of the plasma characteristic waves. Particular cases are discussed and compared with previous results."
"Signal scattering by rough boundaries is a phenomenon common to both radio and underwater sound propagation. A theory, supported by experimental evidence, is presented relating the angular scattering spectrum and the boundary roughness spectrum by first-order diffraction. Accordingly, the Doppler velocity for surface wave scatter is the phase velocity corresponding to wavelength resonance. Both radar and sonar backscatter measurements, however, show random velocity distributions except at long wavelengths, indicating that the wind-driven sea surface is predominantly turbulent. Measurements of temporal coherence of forward-scattered signal are also presented. In this case, the theoretical Doppler spectrum is dominated by motions of the longest waves."
"The problem of electromagnetic scattering by circular wire loops loaded with lumped impedances along the wire is considered. A solution to the appropriate integral equation is obtained by a Fourier series method. The theory is valid for loops in arbitrary impressed fields, and for both monostatic and bistatic scattering. Previously obtained solutions for the loop antenna, the loaded loop antenna, and the unloaded loop scatterer are contained in the solution as special cases."
"A first-order formula is derived for the component Ez(ρ, z) of the electric field very near to the surface and parallel to the axis of a perfectly conducting center-driven cylindrical antenna with radius α and length 2h. It has the form Ez(ρ, z)=Ez(z) ln(ρ/α) where ρ is the radial distance from the axis of the antenna and Ez(z) is a complicated expression that involves generalized sine and cosine integral functions. Zero-order results are compared with first-order values for half- and full-wave dipoles with α/λ = 7.022 × 10−3. It is shown that zero-order values do not include large values of Ez(ρ, z) near the ends and near the driving point, so that a quantitative estimate of the field near a center-driven cylindrical antenna requires a first-order evaluation."
"The radiation impedance of a dipole in an infinite array phased for any angle of radiation is calculated. The calculation is made by means of plane wave expansions and gives a very simple result. The radiation resistance is the product of the broadside resistance times a scanning factor which is unity on broadside and changes the resistance as the beam is scanned. The scanning factor is identified as the product of the element pattern and a factor equal to the ratio of the broadside aperture to the projected aperture. The radiation reactance is also calculated and consists of a leading term due to reflection of the wave fronts from the ground plane plus an infinite series of higher order-terms contributed by the cutoff wave. Results are plotted for the variation of radiation resistance and reactance with changes in radiation angle. A comparison is also made between results calculated by the method of plane wave expansions and those obtained from the method employing mutual impedance coefficients."
"The radiation characteristics of a low-frequency vertical magnetic dipole antenna buried inside a semi-infinite conducting medium have been investigated to determine the electric and magnetic fields at any point inside or outside the conducting medium. Some special cases of interest have been discussed. The results have been used to find the input impedance of the dipole inside the conducting medium."
"This paper presents a field analysis of two closely spaced, abrupt discontinuities in a coaxial transmission line. The discontinuities occur in the radius of the inner conductor of the transmission line. The problem is formulated in terms of two simultaneous integral equations whose solution is obtained by a variational technique. The solution for the admittance is expressed in terms of an infinite series of field modes. The first 11 mode amplitudes have been obtained numerically for different dielectrics and different radii, and admittances calculated. A comparison is made with the results obtained from a transmission-line theory approximation."
"This is a brief summary of all papers presented at the 1965 Conference on Atmospheric Limitations to Optical Propagation, held at the Central Radio Propagation Laboratory,2 Boulder, Colo."
"In a recent paper Kunz [1963]2 developed an asymptotic expression for the current on the outside of an infinite tubular antenna fed at a δ gap."
"No abstract is available."
"Developments in the use of a rotating interferometer for measurements of bearing and elevation angles, for determination of the vertical and horizontal spreads in the power in the incoming cone of rays, and for determination of the correlation between these, are described. It is shown that, using an auxiliary fixed remote antenna, a very simple method of measuring the coherence ratio, i.e., deriving the value of the specular component, is possible."
"Angle-of-arrival measurements have been performed on a troposcatter path by simultaneous reception in angle diversity using antenna beams of 19.2-min beamwidth. The transmitting beam-width is also 19.2 min, permitting measurement of the beam broadening due to the variable refractive index along the propagation path. The results of these measurements have indicated that the antenna beam may sometimes undergo an rms horizontal deflection as great as 17 min of arc over the half-path length of 148 km."
"The bistatic radar cross section of an underdense, inhomogeneous turbulent plasma was measured at X-band and the results were compared with a theoretical model. The turbulent plasma was formed by seeding a premixed ethylene-oxygen flame in a combustion chamber and exhausting it through an expansion nozzle into a low-pressure vessel. Electrostatic probes, biased for ion collection, were used to map the variation of the mean and rms electron density throughout the turbulent regions and to measure the correlation coefficient of the plasma fluctuations. A theoretical scattering model was constructed using the Born approximation and the results of the diagnostic measurement program. Good agreement between theory and experiment has been obtained for the dependence of cross section on bistatic angle and for the spectrum of fluctuations of the scattered microwave signal. The predicted cross section underestimates the measured cross section by 6 to 11 dB when the measured cross sections are in the range from 10−8 to 10−5 m2. The measured cross section was observed to have a square-law dependence on electron density in agreement with the Born model for densities up to one percent of the critical electron density. For densities beyond this, the Born approximation breaks down and the cross-section dependence becomes linear."
"The plasma sheath simulation technique developed earlier has been used to investigate the effects of various types of sheath discontinuities and inhomogeneities on a slot-antenna radiation pattern and input impedance. The results are especially applicable to re-entry environments. In the case of semi-infinite and finite-extent homogeneous plasma sheaths, the radiation pattern and the impedance characteristic are investigated with regard to the geometry of the discontinuity and its proximity to the slot antenna. It is found that the radiation pattern is unaffected by the discontinuity as long as the ratio of the distance between the source and discontinuity to the sheath thickness is of the order of 20 or greater. When the sheath is made finite in extent, with a discontinuity on each side of the slot, the resulting pattern is seen to be a superposition of the effects of each discontinuity acting separately. Investigation of the input impedance of the slot shows essentially no variation with discontinuity separation for separation-to-thickness ratios of at least 4. For smaller separations, the impedance exhibits significant variations, strongly dependent on the geometry of the discontinuity. The effects produced by inhomogeneities are found to be similar to those of a homogeneous sheath with a certain equivalent dielectric constant. For both the homogeneous and inhomogeneous sheaths, favorable comparisons with the available theory is obtained."
"Recent observations at King's College, London, concerning the determination of the propagation constant (attenuation and phase velocity) of electromagnetic waves over the earth's surface are described. The experimental techniques employed include the use of single-station and two-station magnetic recording of atmospherics (sferics) propagated over great distances and the observation of the frequencies and Q factors of Schumann resonances. The experimental results are interpreted in terms of the waveguide mode theory of propagation by assuming various electron and heavy ion density profiles for the ionosphere. The present work agrees well with the observations of other workers made over a limited frequency range, and enables the propagation constant to be determined from 8 c/s to 16 kc/s."
"In this investigation a theory is proposed to explain the production of certain irregularities in the ionosphere. It is found that the region of the ionosphere below the peak of the electron distribution may become unstable because of the joint effect of the gravitational field and the positive electron density gradient there. The unstable modes are found to correspond to quasi-transverse modes. For the case when only plasma is considered, the condition for instability to occur is gρ'p/νρp > ξ, where g is the gravitational acceleration, ρp the plasma density, ρ'p its height gradient, v the ion-neutral collisional frequency, and ξ the effective attachment coefficient. When the coupling between plasma and neutral particles is taken into account, an additional instability condition may occur when the neutral particle distribution has a positive density gradient. This quasi-transverse unstable mode is proposed as a possible causative mechanism for the formation of irregularities in the ionosphere. When either one of the instability criteria is satisfied, spontaneous generation of irregularities is possible. Some experimental evidence is presented and discussed."
"The work of Pierce [1963] defining the role of collision energy considerations in the temperature dependence of negative ion collisional detachment was altered by Arnold [1964] on the basis of a more exact gas kinetic approach valid for elastic spheres. A reexamination of this work is made here using gas kinetic equations with an arbitrary collision cross section. It is found that while the corrections of Arnold apply to a modified elastic sphere expression, the introduction of an ion-molecule interaction based upon a polarization force leads to a temperature dependence for collisional detachment which is the same as that originally given by Pierce. A difference is noted, however, in that the present expression involves only the neutral gas polarizability as a characteristic of the ion-neutral interaction, removing the previous necessity of making separate evaluations of the collision radii and ion and molecule free paths. Using the data of Pack and Phelps [1965] an expression for 0-2 collisional detachment is derived as $\\frac {D}{n(n)}=4.2 \\times 10^{-12} \\left(\\frac {5000}{T}\\right)^{1/2} \\exp \\left\\{\\frac{-5000}{T}\\right\\} cm^{3} sec^{-1}$."
"An expression for the fields of two parallel line charges in an anisotropic medium is derived. To facilitate the analysis, the line sources are assumed to be encased in a cylindrical dielectric rod. The result is used to obtain a formula for the driving-point impedance of the device. It is shown that the resonances are a well defined function of the plasma and cyclotron frequencies."
"No abstract is available."
"Transmission loss for ionospheric propagation over a 4000-km path from Maryland to Southern California has been measured experimentally at several frequencies in the HF band. The observed losses were in close agreement with those predicted at all frequencies near and below the standard maximum usable frequency (MUF). The observed losses exceeded those predicted whenever the frequency of the obliquely incident radiation exceeded the standard MUF. This excess loss was found to be that predicted by the Phillips-Abel theory for evaluation of F, or F 2-region reflected power on frequencies above the standard MUF. Loss predictions were made, taking into account geometric spreading of the radiation, ground reflection loss, Es-region obscuration, and D-region absorption for those frequencies when the entire path was not in darkness. Standard MUF values were calculated with the aid of ionosonde data from along the path, assuming transmission via two F-layer reflections."
"The current distribution on a half-wave dipole antenna embedded in a conducting half space is investigated. The dipole antenna is parallel to the plane of the interface between the two media. It is illuminated by a diffracted inhomogeneous plane wave with perpendicular magnetic field vector. The current distribution is found mainly cosinusoidal with a shifted cosine correction term. A numercial analysis is given for the case where the dissipative medium has average earth constants. Variations of the current due to different angles of incidence are also investigated."
"The electric and magnetic field components produced by vertical and horizontal dipoles (both electric and magnetic types) located at the surface of a semi-infinite conducting medium have been derived and presented for the quasi-static range. The receiving antenna has also been assumed to be located at the earth's surface. These derivations resulted from the application of the reciprocity theorem to previously derived field components. The special cases of the measurement distance ρ much greater than the skin depth δ and ρ ≪ δ have been examined. Some numerical values for the field-component functions have also been provided."
"Atomic frequency and time interval standards had advanced to such a high level of performance that in October 1964, the International Committee of Weights and Measures designated the (F = 4, mF = 0) D (F = 3, mF = 0) transition in the ground state of Cs133 temporarily for the physical measurement of time. They assigned the value 9,192,631,770 Hz to this transition. Thus the physical basis for time measurement has changed from an astronomical unit to an atomic unit of time [Bureau International des Poids et Mesures, 1964]."
"In 1965 there was a strong reawakening of interest in “angel” or clear-air radar echoes. Atlas [1965] postulated that “dot” or point-like angles were reflections from smooth, sharp boundaries at the apex of convective thermals. Focusing from the curved surface reduced the requirement on the index gradient to 1 N unit through 1 cm; however, the requirement of smoothness to a fraction of a cm over the first Fresnel zone is still severe and lacks experimental confirmation. Dot angel activity at night requires another explanation. Hardy, Atlas, and Glover [1966] and Deam and LaGrone [1965] conclude that dot angel characteristics are explainable only if the targets are insects. These conclusions stem from considerations of absolute cross section and wavelength dependence. Others, using measured Doppler velocities of the dot angels, concur in the insect hypothesis, stating that the weak flyers tend to drift with the mean wind while the stronger flyers may actually have a mean velocity relative to the wind."
"Auroral absorption measured in the auroral zone with riometers is on the average more pronounced in the winter months for both hemispheres. Also, in winter it has a pronounced diurnal variation with a maximum a few hours before noon. The average absorption in winter is twice that in summer, but sunlight has no influence in its value [Leinbach and Basler, 1963; Basler, 1963]. Individual events at night are characterized by a quiet phase of relatively small absorption, a sharp increase of absorption associated with the breakup phase of the visible aurora, and a fast recovery with irregular fluctuation of absorption. Detailed correlation of areas of absorption and luminosity exists for such events [Ansari, 1964]. The structure is less than 200 km in the north-south direction and 700 km in the east-west direction [Parthasarathy and Berkey, 1965]. An event seen only after midnight consists of a relatively slow increase and recovery of extremely high absorption with no detailed correlation of light emission and absorption. It is associated with a harder electron spectrum [Ansari, 1964], A peculiar type of absorption event frequently observed during midmorning usually increases very smoothly, reaches a high value of absorption, and is not accompanied by appreciable magnetic activity [Ansari, 1965]. Absorption associated either with negative bays or with breakup events shows no difference in intensity between day and night [Brown and Barcus, 1963; Brown, 1964]. There is a limited correlation between the high-energy part of the electron spectrum, as measured by X-rays in balloons, and the absorption [Barcus, 1965]. Similar correlations can be found for magnetically conjugate positions [Brown, Anderson, Anger, and Evans, 1963; Brown, Barcus, and Parsons, 1965]. Short-time auroral absorption events occur inside the auroral zone, preferably by night and in winter. Some of the events occur in only one hemisphere [Gillmor and Hargreaves, 1963; Eriksen, Gillmor, and Hargreaves, 1964; Hargreaves, Chivers, and Petlock, 1964]."
"It has become clear during the past few years that the magnetosphere has a long open tail trailing out from the earth in the direction away from the sun, much as was predicted by Piddington [I960]. That this was so was recognized by Dessler [1964] on the basis of theoretical considerations and Explorer 10 observations of the geomagnetic field made by Heppner et al. [1963]. Striking verification of this analysis was obtained by Ness [1965] in IMP-1, as indicated by figure 1. An interesting feature of the distorted magnetosphere is the magnetically neutral sheet that separates the oppositely directed magnetic field lines. The tail is very long and the neutral sheet lies roughly in the plane of the ecliptic rather than in the geomagnetic equatorial plane. The open tail is probably caused by the penetration of solar plasma from the sides of the magnetosphere [Fejer, 1965; Wentworth, 1965]. According to the analysis of Dessler and Juday [1965], the field lines from the auroral zone are the ones that form the boundary of the tail and the two boundaries of the neutral sheet; this is equivalent to saying that the auroral zone is the boundary for the magnetic field lines that close within the magnetosphere and rotate with the earth. As the earth rotates, the closed field lines expand and contract diurnally, reaching a maximum geomagnetic latitude of 75° in the daytime and 69° at night, as indicated by measurements of trapped particle radiation by O'Brien [1963]."
"Scale model laboratory experiments simulating the effect of the solar wind on the magnetosphere have shown the time history of the formation and breakup of the magnetospheric cavity. Time-resolved (1 μsec) data on the visible “standoff” interaction show that the “quasi-Van Allen belts” first become visible well within the cavity at the time the plasma wind encounters the fringing terrella field. The belts at this time show a definite structure with “ribbons” of plasma along the field lines. This structure is probably associated with oscillatory phenomena present in the belts and their excitation mechanism. The polar views show considerable asymmetry of both the internal and external phenomena throughout the interaction. The visual asymmetries indicate that the plasma in the tail of the dipole magnetic field “wags” as the interaction builds up and decays. Magnetic field measurements in the equatorial plane show a similar motion of the magnetic field in the tail."
"The propagation of electromagnetic waves in a horizontally stratified layer of a gyrotropic medium is discussed. Derivation of a comprehensive representation for magneto-ionic coupling coefficients allows interpretation of the physical significance of coupling. An invariant quantity is determined which assists in locating critical levels and becomes an important guide for numerical solutions of the wave equation. Numerical results of the Booker quartic and magneto-ionic coupling coefficients are presented for a model ionosphere. In the isotropic region the characteristic waves are linearly polarized, while for the anisotropic region they are generally elliptically polarized."
"We consider whether a unique ionospheric electron density distribution can be calculated from ionograms in the case of a “valley” between the E and F regions, assuming that the absolute phase heights are available in addition to the virtual heights. By using the concept of an “equivalent distribution” it is shown that the additional knowledge of phase heights reduces the possible valley error, but cannot remove it completely."
"Ionospheric plasma oscillations near the lower hybrid resonant frequency, excited by an infinitesimally small impulsive dipole source and observed at a point moving away from the source with typical rocket or satellite velocity, are well described by cold plasma theory after a few milliseconds. The field of the oscillations at the observation point decays as the inverse 3/2 power of the time. In practice, oscillating field strengths of a few microvolts per meter should be readily attainable; the detect-ability of such oscillations depends on the ambient noise level, which is not well known at present."
"The admittance of a waveguide is calculated for radiation into a general two-layer compressible plasma which is further specialized to represent a plasma sheath and also an ion sheath in the presence of a plasma half space. The antenna admittance is related by integrals to the electric fields in the waveguide aperture, which are assumed to be a sum of the principal waveguide mode and of surface wave fields which are supported in this plasma geometry. The compressibility of plasma has the largest effect on the slot admittance when the slot width is equal to an odd number of half wavelengths of surface waves, but significant changes occur only if the relative dielectric constant of the plasma is less than 0.2, and the ratio of the free-space velocity of electromagnetic waves to the acoustic velocity is less than 300. Plasma losses and the presence of an ion sheath tend to lessen the compressibility effects."
"After reviewing some of the basic properties of spheroidal wave functions, the theory of radiation from a prolate spheroid antenna is considered. Particular attention is given to the complicating influence of a confocal plasma sheath whose properties may be either constant or depend on the polar angle coordinate. The effects of the compressibility of the plasma and the influence of a d-c magnetic field are also considered, using very idealized models. Among other things, it is indicated that a spheroidal structure may be strongly resonated (in a single mode) if the surface impedance has a special form."
"The propagation of electromagnetic waves with a frequency of 16 kc/s is studied in the distance range 350 to 800 km from the transmitter GBR-Rugby. Field strength measurements recorded continuously at eight stations during the winter of 1962/63 are compared with field strength calculations based upon the concept of the equivalent ionosphere. The influence of the lower ionosphere on long electromagnetic waves for a specific frequency and propagation direction is nearly the same as that of a sharply bounded, homogeneously ionized isotropic equivalent ionosphere. For oblique incidence the boundary can be taken at a certain “equivalent height” h', if the reflection coefficient is approximated by the function —exp (—α cos ϑ), ϑ being the angle of incidence, and α a certain real positive parameter characterizing the reflection. The possible error caused by this approximation for the distance range mentioned above is considered. The two parameters h' and α are determined from the measurements. The possible range of parameters for nighttime and daytime propagation is first estimated by different comparisons between calculated and measured field strength curves. The sunrise effect is then considered and evidence is found that during about 1.5 hr after sunrise the concept of the equivalent ionosphere does not satisfactorily describe the propagation. A method is presented for finding the parameters for nighttime and daytime propagation using only the relative field strength variations as measured at the different distances. Typical fall daytime values for h' and α are near 69 km and 4, respectively; for winter days h' is about 73 km and α is of the order of unity, both varying in rather wide limits. For the nighttime, h'-values were found to be between 81 and 89 km and α was smaller than 0.3 in most cases, corresponding to a reflection of a strong dielectric type."
"Turbulence and scattering can be considered as chiefly responsible for the deterioration of coherence properties of laser radiation when propagating through the atmosphere. The effect of atmospheric turbulence as well as the effect of molecular scattering (in a quiet atmosphere) on the space and time coherence, respectively, have been theoretically investigated within the limits of ray theory. As a result we found that there is a limiting diameter for the beam cross section beyond which the advantages of the space coherence are largely offset by the intervention of turbulence. On the other hand, the thermal movements of molecules may affect the time coherence (that is, the monochromaticity) of a highly monochromatic beam."
"The need for an improved ground-based radio technique for probing the lower ionosphere has prompted a number of experiments based on nonlinear radio wave interaction (ionospheric cross modulation or Luxembourg Effect) [Fejer, 1955; Rumi and Little, 1958; Barrington and Thrane, 1962; Ferraro et al., 1963; Smith, 1964]. Their success as accurate and continuous D-region probes has been somewhat limited by the need for much greater experimental accuracy and sensitivity and an efficient method for interpreting interaction data in terms of electron density and collision frequency profiles. The solution of many of the problems in refining and optimizing this type of experiment and in the development of effective data reduction techniques depends ultimately on the formulation of a more comprehensive model of the interaction mechanism. This note summarizes a recent publication [Georges, 1965] which presents a simple method for simulating the interaction process on a digital computer. The technique is directly applicable to vertical-incidence pulse interaction experiments based on the method of Fejer [1955], including cosmic noise interaction [Benson, 1962], phase interaction [Ferraro et al., 1963], and gyrointeraction [Smith, 1964]. By avoiding the explicit formulation and solution of closed-form expressions for the interaction effects, many of the limitations and approximations involved in analytical treatments are bypassed. The simulation of many different interaction experiments using various theoretical models yields estimates of the limits of applicability of the simplified analytical theory, and shows that it becomes a poorer approximation as experimental conditions necessary for improved accuracy and sensitivity are approached. The numerical method also provides a basis for the development of an effective technique for the synthesis of ionospheric profiles from interaction data."
"No abstract is available."
"Many important papers have appeared; only a few can be given here. In cylindrical antenna theory, accurate current and field distributions were found for isolated [King and Wu, 1965] and coupled [King and Sandler, 1964] elements. A fine summary of broadband antennas by Jordan was referenced in recent studies of log-spiral antennas [Dyson, 1965]. New structures included the wire-grid HF Luneburg lens [Sharp, 1965] and double-helix antennas [Ehrenspeck, 1965]. Advances in large quasi-optical antennas included an analysis of focal fields and line source feeds for spherical reflectors [Schell, 1963]; analysis of reflector-subreflector systems such as Cassegrain and Gregorian types [Morgan, 1964]; and a book treating aperture antennas and including many references [Hansen, 1964]. Progress in optical scanning systems included geodesic Luneburg lenses [Rudduck, Ryan, and Walter, 1964], bootlace lenses [Kales and Brown, 1965], and parallel-plate scanners [Rotman and Turner, 1963]. Electronic scanning of phased arrays received major attention. Mutual impedance changes with scan angles were analyzed by the impedance crater concept [Rhodes, 1964]; also techniques for compensating for these changes were developed [Hannan, Lerner, and Knittel, 1965]. Important progress has been made in digital phase shifters. The diode type [White, 1965] has recently been supplemented by latching types employing ferrite cores [Whicker and Jones, 1965]. Adaptive array systems were covered in a special issue [IEEE, 1964]; of particular interest are the Gruenberg paper on retrodirective systems and the Skolnik and King paper on self-steering arrays. The annular slot array has been developed for monopulse [Kelly and Goebels, 1964], Nonuniformly spaced array sidelobes have been bounded by a probabilistic approach [Lo, 1964]. Finally, the important but long unsolved problem of an optimum directivity source with supergain ratio constraint was formally solved [Rhodes, 1963]."
"The generation of new laser devices, techniques, ideas, and applications continued at ah unslowing pace during 1963—1966. While no large-scale or commercially important laser applications have yet emerged, lasers have found innumerable and often irreplaceable applications both in science and in technology. Increasing numbers of useful commercial applications are slowly beginning to emerge at the end of the period."
"No abstract is available."
"Multiple-frequency (5–50 Mc/s) radio wave absorption data taken during a polar-cap event is used to derive an electron density profile for the lower ionosphere. By comparing this profile with an ionization rate profile calculated using measured particle flux, the effective recombination coefficient is obtained for the 50–90 km height region."
"The effect of meteoric dust particles on the steady-state distribution of electrons and ions in the lower ionosphere (50–90 km) has been investigated. A formal expression for the effective recombination coefficient has also been derived, containing the terms for the rates of capture of electrons and positive and negative ions by the dust. These capture rates are derived by an extension of Natanson's theory of aerosol charging by the capture of ions. The altitude dependence of these coefficients is mainly determined by the altitude distribution of the dust concentration. It is found that only particles with radii larger than about a tenth of a micron play a significant role. The numerical values of the effective recombination coefficient for several altitudes in the D region have been compared with the values empirically determined by us from multiple-frequency radiowave absorption data in the auroral zone, and found to be in satisfactory argeement. It is also shown that the role of dust concentration in the D region is of major significance when the ionization density is weak to moderate. For a strongly ionized D region, the role is significant only if the dust concentration is higher than is currently believed probable."
"The purpose of this note is to describe some new phase velocity measurements using signals from the VLF stations NPG (18.6 kc/s) near Seattle, Wash., and WWVL (20.0 kc/s) near Fort Collins, Colo. Previous experimental results have been described by Wait [1961]."
"The fundamental solution for VLF waves propagating past a shoreline in the earth-ionosphere duct is obtained in terms of an infinite series using the Wiener-Hopf methods. The effects of the land, sea, and ionosphere are given in terms of complex impedance boundary conditions. As a result, each mode in the series is progressively damped. At low frequencies and distances far from the shoreline where a single mode dominates, reflection and transmission coefficients are obtained. When the ionospheric impedance is small and when the source and receiver are sufficiently elevated, the effect of the shoreline is not observable. However, when either the source or receiver is near the earth, the portion of the wave reflected is proportional to the difference of sea and land impedances. At slightly higher frequencies, there exists an annular region about the shoreline where two modes propagate over the sea while, due to heavy damping, only one mode propagates over the land. The resulting increase of the field strength as the receiver passes from land, seaward is the “recovery effect.”"
"An investigation of the surface currents excited by plane electromagnetic (EM) and electrokinetic (EK) waves on a metal cylinder immersed in a uniform, collisionless isotropic plasma is described. The formulation is based on a linearized treatment which proceeds from velocity moments of the Boltzmann equation for electrons together with Maxwell's equations. The analysis includes the inhomogeneous sheath (assumed to be of finite thickness) which forms about the cylinder when at floating potential in the plasma, for an arbitrary angle of wave incidence. Some results of numerical calculations carried out for normal wave incidence are presented. The effects of varying the sheath thickness and static potential are examined. In addition, numerical calculations are performed assuming either complete reflection or absorption of the electrons at the cylinder surface. It is found that the surface currents for EK wave incidence are substantially in agreement with results obtained when the actual sheath is replaced by a free-space region. In particular, the inhomogeneous sheath model which was used has the effect of decreasing the currents excited by the EK wave compared with the case where the plasma is uniform everywhere. For EM wave incidence on the other hand, the surface currents are found to be negligibly affected, both by the inhomogeneous sheath and plasma compressibility."
"The propagation of electromagnetic waves around a cylinder is rigorously treated by the application of conformal mapping. The cylinder is surrounded by a nonmagnetic isotropic medium whose dielectric constant is a function of the radius. It is transformed into a Cartesian system filled with a fictitious medium whose dielectric constant and magnetic permeability are functions of height. The wave equations for a TM and a TE wave are given. Wave propagation around a cylinder represents an approximation to wave propagation around a sphere (e.g., the earth) when the influence of the curvature of the sphere perpendicular to the direction of propagation can be neglected. It is shown that the conformal mapping applied to the cylinder yields an earth-flattening technique which agrees with first-order approximations obtained in spherical coordinates. Pryce treats wave propagation around the earth in spherical coordinates using a range transformation suggested by Pekeris and a height transformation suggested by Copson. It will be shown in this paper that both independently proposed transformations follow directly from the application of conformal mapping."
"Several approximations to the attenuation coefficient caused by double knife-edge diffraction are given in terms of the single knife-edge attenuation coefficient. These approximations are evaluated for several typical double knife-edge paths and compared with the theoretical value in order to determine the best approximation in the different regions of interest."
"The 1965 symposium at Delft was the most recent of a series of triennial, international symposia on electromagnetic theory sponsored by URSI. Past meetings in this series have dealt largely with modern topics based on classical electromagnetic theory, such as boundary-value problems, diffraction, scattering theory, antenna theory, microwave optics, propagation in various media, waveguides, surface waves, etc. As such, attention was focused almost exclusively on the behavior of electromagnetic waves propagating in, or in the presence of, media or structures which were linear, passive, and time-invariant. The symposium at Delft, in contrast to the previous meetings in this series, had a significant number of contributions on problems involving either nonlinear, active, or time-varying systems."
"No abstract is available."
"No abstract is available."
"No abstract is available."
"Radiation from electromagnetic sources in layered regions is reviewed and illustrated for the case of planar stratification. After a reduction of the vector field problem to equivalent scalar Green's function problems, the latter are expressed in alternative forms by the systematic application of one-dimensional characteristic Green's function techniques. Solutions are derived in this manner without the intervention of the classical Watson procedure and are interpretable as guided-wave representations along various coordinate directions. Considerations pertaining to scalar Green's functions apply directly, upon suitable reinterpretation of the electromagnetic parameters, to other fields such as the acoustic which are derivable from scalar potentials."
"An exact solution is given for the problem of a magnetic line source in the presence of an isotropic conducting cylinder which is surrounded by a concentric stratified plasma. The d-c magnetic field is alined with the cylindrical axis. The harmonic series representation is transformed to a more highly convergent form which facilitates computation for large cylinder radii. In this case, the field is expressed as a sum of modes which propagate around the cylinder in opposing directions. The presence of the d-c magnetic field destroys the usual azimuthal symmetry in problems of this type, it is indicated that the situation is somewhat analogous to the propagation of radio waves in a spherical earth-ionosphere system."
"The exact harmonic series solution for the fields in a cylindrically stratified plasma is utilized to examine the cavity resonant frequencies. The problem is restricted to two-dimensional geometry such that the d-c magnetic field is parallel to the axis of the system. Some numerical results are given for the special case of an annular air region bounded by a perfectly conducting core and an homogeneous external plasma. It is shown that the d-c magnetic field shifts the resonant frequencies from their isotropic values and causes certain “line-splitting” effects."
"An experimental investigation of the propagation characteristics of longitudinal waves in plasma-filled waveguides is described. Two distinct modes of propagation are observed, corresponding to whether the discharge is in the normal or abnormal glow region. The normal glow, or “lower mode“, exhibits completely different propagation characteristics from those of the abnormal glow or “higher mode.” The characteristics of both types of propagation are fully discussed."
"The previous theoretical analysis by the present author on the propagation of whistler radio waves along an enhanced or depressed magnetoplasma slab imbedded in an infinite magnetoplasma is extended to include the general case of an arbitrary thickness of the slab. As a result, two different types of completely guided waves are found to exist in general. The one guided wave is essentially a surface wave trapped along an interface between two semi-infinite plasmas of different plasma densities, while the other guided wave is a duct type of surface wave in which the whistler plane wave is predominantly propagated inside the slab by the successive total reflections at the walls of the slab and is propagated along the depressed plasma slab only. Dispersion properties of these completely guided waves are studied in detail."
"This paper presents the results of precise numerical computations and extensive analytical investigations of the angular propagation constants for the various electromagnetic modes which may exist in waveguide bends of rectangular cross section. Although the values of the several independent parameters have been chosen to be commensurate with microwave applications, the results are displayed and discussed in a manner which should be convenient for both the analysis and the design of such components in analogous problems in other and diverse practical situations. Moreover, special consideration is given to the relationship of this work to various efforts in the study of radio wave propagation. Two important approximations, one for “high” frequencies and the other for gradual bends, are also considered as a part of the present inquiry. These approximations, especially the latter, turn out to be remarkably good, and rather accurate values of the propagation constants can be obtained with their use for wide ranges of parameter values. The following are typical of the conclusions which can be drawn from this research; (1) cutoff frequencies for modes existing in continuously curved waveguides are curvature dependent; (2) there exist waveguide bends such that circularly polarized waves are undistorted by transmission along the curved section; (3) the angular propagation constants are generally monotonically increasing functions of the operating frequency f (for fixed mean radius) and of the mean radius R (for fixed frequency). Moreover, they vary linearly with f for frequencies far above cutoff and with R for small curvatures."
"Propagation of time harmonic waves, either generated by random sources or scattered by smooth deterministic scatterers, is considered in large perfectly conducting waveguides which contain random media differing slightly from homogeneous media. Emphasis is given to computation of the mean values of wave motions and their physical interpretation. By perturbation theory, the original stochastic problem is first reduced to an equivalent deterministic boundary value problem, correct through terms of order ∊2, where ∊ measures the deviation of the medium from homogeneity. Then the equivalent problem is solved by methods of separation of variables and eigenfunction expansion. Upon utilizing the method of scattering amplitude, the obtained solutions are transformed into new representations, which not only provide excellent physical interpretation, but also play a key role in a new approximation technique for calculating the scattered waves in waveguides. Finally, the case of scattering by a small perfectly conducting sphere in a random rectangular waveguide is solved as a simple illustration."
"The resolvent Green's function technique is used to find the acoustic field due to a CW point source located in a laminar inhomogeneous medium. Results are in terms of a residue expansion (normal modes) and branch line integrals. This approach is then used to solve the wave equation for an underwater acoustic duct described by an Epstein layer. Only the residue expansion is evaluated. From the residue expansion, propagation loss is found as a function of range. Application to a realistic velocity-depth profile indicates a pattern of beats resulting from a superposition of the normal modes. A general procedure is next described for obtaining exact solutions of the wave equation for a large variety of velocity-depth profiles. This procedure may prove useful in developing future normal mode models."
"No abstract is available."
"No abstract is available."
"No abstract is available."
"Results of measurements on long resonant dipoles installed on the Greenland ice cap are presented. The difficulties involved in laboratory modeling of VLF antennas are discussed and the full-scale data presented show significant differences from previously reported model data. Self-impedance, amplitude current distributions, and relative efficiency were measured using dipoles that ranged in length from 600 m to 8,000 m. Results from three 3,700-m dipoles having different insulation diameters are compared. Four-electrode measurements of complex conductivity of the surface ice are also reported. Dipole driving point resistance at resonance is found to be higher than expected, and a basic correlation of resonant length and driving point resistance with the dielectric properties of the ice is noted. The efficiency of insulated dipoles was found to be significantly greater than that of uninsulated dipoles of equivalent length."
"No abstract is available."
"No abstract is available."
"The penetration of VLF waves into the ionosphere is calculated from the mode representation of the fields in the earth-ionosphere waveguide. This calculation is more appropriate for evaluation of leakage of VLF energy into the ionosphere at large distances from the transmitter than is the calculation based on a ray theory representation of the fields. The ratio of the amplitude of the field excited in the ionosphere to that observed on the earth is found to agree with the observations of the LOFTI I experiment. In carrying out the analysis of the leakage of energy from the waveguide modes, it is necessary to reevaluate the modal propagation constants, employing a self-consistent calculation requiring that the wave polarization of a modal field be preserved upon reflection at the waveguide boundaries. Upon imposing these conditions, it is found that two sets of modes result, having different polarizations. These sets of modes have been designated as quasi-TE and quasi-TM by Budden, but both sets are not usually used in VLF field strength calculations. Under nighttime conditions, both types of modes will be of importance, while in daytime only the quasi-TM modes will be excited by a vertical monopole antenna on the earth. These results predict a nonreciprocal attenuation over a north-south propagation path."
"An investigation has been carried on, based on a geometric-optics treatment, of HF and VHF propagation in the ionospheric whispering gallery, with emphasis on long-range paths between terminal points both embedded in the lower ionosphere and not involving earth surface reflections. The results of the investigation have proven that guided paths at HF and VHF are supported by the lower ionosphere despite sharp day-to-night transitions, refractive irregularities, and discontinuities, and have provided enough insight into their properties to allow the detailed design of a satellite-to-satellite experiment."
"A simple method is given for exciting the first two propagating modes only in a waveguide model which approximates the earth-ionosphere waveguide at VLF frequencies. A theoretical solution for the mode conversion at an assumed sunrise change in ionosphere effective height is obtained and verified experimentally."
"Experiments on tropospheric duct propagation above the sea are discussed, especially in comparison with the mode theory of Booker and Walkinshaw. While the salient features of ducting processes are well described by this theory, we find no quantitative agreement between the observed and the theoretically predicted field-strength values. The main reason for this may be additional energy scatter in the maritime sublayer and at the irregularities of the upper and the lower boundary of the evaporation duct, which are not covered by theory."
"The problem of diffraction around a smooth, finitely conducting earth is reexamined with the objective of obtaining an exact solution for the case of an exponential profile of refractivity. The methods employed are largely conventional. However, care is taken to avoid approximations of doubtful accuracy, and the solution is illustrated by numerical computations. It is shown that the method of using an effective earth radius and assuming a homogeneous medium is generally sound."
"An electromagnetic waveguide in the earth's crust is idealized as a homogeneous lossy dielectric slab which is bounded by two homogeneous semi-infinite conducting media. The source is a vertical electric dipole which is either above or below the upper surface of the horizontal slab. The exact integral formula for the field is evaluated by function-theoretic means. It is shown that the dominant contributions are the propagating waveguide modes in the slab, although the lateral waves should not be ignored. The excitation of the waveguide modes and the relevant height-gain and depth-gain functions are also discussed. The attenuation characteristics of the modes are considered in some detail. It is shown that the principal loss mechanisms are the ohmic dissipation within the waveguide and the energy transmitted through the upper and lower walls into the bounding media. A numerical example is chosen where all three loss mechanisms are of the same order of magnitude."
"This paper deals with propagation of radio waves in a model multimode waveguide with special applications to VLF propagation in the earth-ionosphere waveguide. The effective height of the waveguide is assumed to be an arbitrary function of distance along the path of propagation. In this paper a finite surface impedance boundary is devised to simulate the ionosphere boundary. The quasi-optical approach developed for perfectly reflecting boundaries is generalized to obtain the required solution. These theoretical solutions are compared with experimental data from the model waveguide in which a “day-to-night transition” and a localized depression in the effective height of the ionosphere are simulated."
"The VLF electrometer on the Lockheed-Aerospace P–11 satellite, 1964–45A, sampled ambient electric fields in the frequency range 1.7–14.5 kc/s. Tape-recorded data for 16 full orbits were obtained between 15 August 1964 and 13 September 1964. A complete description of the experiment is given, the results for 8 of these passes are displayed and analyzed, and the remaining measurements are summarized. It is argued that the observed fields generally represent electrostatic plasma oscillations in the ambient medium, and various sources of the large nonequilibrium noise enhancements are considered. It is noted that d-c electric fields parallel to the geomagnetic field lines (possibly associated with the flute instability) could produce the large-amplitude plasma oscillations and related phenomena."
"A new method for the numerical solution of the wave equation governing the propagation of electromagnetic waves in a horizontally stratified, inhomogeneous, anisotropic medium is described. The wave equation is a homogeneous set of four linear differential equations of the first order. Four linearly independent solutions are derived. The medium is divided into a number of thin horizontal subslabs. Within a subslab, the propagation coefficient matrix is assumed to vary linearly with respect to height. Under this assumption, the modification of solutions from one height to another is expressed in power-series form, and the inhomogeneity effect in a subslab is examined. This, together with the extraction of the phase memory integral from the solution, allows an increase in the integration step size by a factor of 10 over that traditionally used. During an ordinary integration for an inhomogeneous medium a degradation occurs in the degree of linear independence among special solutions. This cause is analyzed. To obtain a complete set of special solutions with good linear independence, a technique is developed suitable for general application. This method has been programmed for computer calculation. The resultant wave fields and wave polarizations for the independent modes are shown for a model ionosphere. The resultant wave is described as a “scrambling” of four characteristic waves. The “scrambling” state is illustrated at each height."
"The input resistance of a short filamental antenna in a warm isotropic plasma is considered from the kinetic (Vlasov equation) rather than the hydrodynamic approach. The results of the two approaches are compared. It is shown that the transverse component of the resistance given by the kinetic approach agrees closely with that of the hydrodynamic approach except for frequencies below the plasma frequency. The longitudinal component of resistance agrees in the two approaches only at frequencies which are large compared with the plasma frequency."
"The surface currents excited on an infinitely long, circular metal cylinder immersed in an isotropic compressible plasma by electromagnetic (EM) and electrokinetic (EK) plane waves are investigated. The formulation proceeds from velocity moments of the collisionless Boltzmann equation for the electrons, together with Maxwell s equations, and uses a linearized analysis. The sheath which forms about the cylinder is approximated by a free-space layer between the cylinder and the uniform plasma, called the vacuum sheath. It is found from the numerical calculations that the vacuum sheath tends to screen the EK wave from the cylinder, and produces a large attenuation of the surface currents excited by the EK wave. The sheath and EK wave are found, on the other hand, to negligibly affect the currents excited by the EM wave."
"This paper presents an application of the concept of differential reflectivity relating to the determination of the permeability and permittivity of the material composing a smooth reflecting sphere. Expressions for these parameters are derived which depend on measurements of relative scattered power in a bistatic radar or optical experiment. Absolute power measurements are not necessary; only the ratio of the powers received by two quadratically opposed antennas is needed. This ratio must be determined for two different configurations of source, target, and observation point. The first-order terms obtained by this method can be readily verified by geometrical optics."
"In recent years many papers have appeared in the technical literature dealing with the question of radiation from sources imbedded in magnetoionic media. Most of these papers, which have restricted their consideration to media described by the Appleton-Hartree dielectric tensor, have come to the conclusion that the radiation resistance of a point dipole may be infinite in some regime of magnetoionic parameters even if the medium itself is lossless. Recently, two authors have purported to show, by introducing arguments of time reversibility, that the “infinity catastrophe” that appeared in the earlier papers is due to an incorrect formulation of the problem and that if the correct formulation were used the infinity would disappear. This paper reexamines the fundamental formulas for radiation in magnetoplasmas and concludes that the formulas used by earlier authors are valid and that the “infinity catastrophe” arises not from the method of calculation but rather from a physical inconsistency in the Appleton-Hartree dielectric tensor."
"Some tutorial remarks on the new theory of antenna radiation are made. The theory is applied to the special case of an oscillating dipole in a uniaxial medium."
"Certain objections, based on considerations of reversible as compared with irreversible power, which have been raised against conventional computations of the radiation resistance of antennas in magnetoplasma are shown to be without foundation. The inapplicability of this concept of reversible power to steady-state radiation is considered, and its connection with transient excitation is discussed."
"As we [Lee and Papas, 1965] have pointed out, the steady-state, time-average power P emitted by an antenna in an anisotropic medium has two parts, an irreversible part Pirr and a reversible part Prev. That is, P = Pirr + Prev. It is our contention that true radiated power is given by Pirr and not necessarily by P. In special cases where Prev = 0, e.g., the case where the antenna is in a vacuum or the case where the antenna is in a homogeneous, isotropic, lossless medium, it makes no difference whether one uses P or Pirr as the measure of radiated power. However, if the medium surrounding the antenna is gyroelectric, there is no reason to believe that Prev = 0, and one must be careful to account for the difference between P and Pirr."
"The electromagnetic field produced by a general point source moving on an arbitrary trajectory an infinite homogeneous medium is obtained by solving an initial value problem for Maxwell's equations. The solution is expressed parametrically with the aid of bicharacteristics or space-time rays. This representation, which is equivalent to the more common “retarded time” representation is used because it clarifies the space-time geometry of the solution. For the case of a moving charge, the solution reduces to a standard result. In a sequel, the results obtained will be applied to the problem of radiation and propagation of electromagnetic waves produced by point sources moving in an inhomogeneous medium."
"It is shown that, due to an incorrect asymptotic evaluation of certain integrals, the analytical results of Chen and Keller for the admittance of the infinite cylindrical antenna give an incorrect result for the conductance, although the susceptance is correct."
"A modified Fock function is obtained to describe the current distribution on a smooth convex boundary, composed of a flat plane smoothly joined to a parabolic cylinder with the join in the penumbra region. Both analytical and numerical methods are used to obtain the modified Fock function which now depends on the distance between the shadow boundary and the flat plane-parabolic cylinder join. The modified Fock function is applied to estimate the backscattering cross section of a cone-sphere."
"In a recent paper by Lee and Lo [1966] concerning radiation in a relativistically moving anisotropic medium, a transformation of plasma frequency ωN and cyclotron frequency ωH from laboratory frame (unprimed system) to the rest frame (primed system) of the plasma are given. One of these results, the transformation of the plasma frequency, seems to be in error. It appears that Lee and Lo have overlooked the fact that the plasma electron volume density, appearing in the expression for the plasma frequency, also undergoes a Lorentz transformation."
"A flat strip antenna is embedded in a planar dielectric slab, which is surrounded on both sides by layers of compressible isotropic electron plasma. Several closed-form expressions are obtained for the impedance with a sinusoidal current distribution along the antenna. The antenna impedance is computed numerically when considering the perturbations of the antenna current by surface waves. Except for thin plasma layers, the antenna impedance can be computed using the same current distribution as for a cold plasma. This supports the validity of earlier work which neglects the perturbation of the antenna current by plasma waves. However, it is essential to consider the finite transverse dimension of the antenna and the presence of an insulating layer or of an ion sheath."
"A criterion is presented to decide whether a given set of boundary conditions guarantees a unique solution to the linearized warm-plasma equations, and a set of boundary conditions is given which meets this criterion. The boundary conditions often employed when the plasma is contained in a perfectly conducting rigid cavity are shown to belong to this set. An absorptive boundary condition based on sheath considerations is also shown to belong to this set."
"The influence of a spatial periodic variation in the ionosphere's surface impedance is treated theoretically with regard to VLF propagation. It is indicated that substantial mode conversion may take place if the wavelength of the impedance variation is equal to the difference between the guide wavelengths of the two interacting modes."
"Ionospheric nonlinear wave interaction (cross modulation) experiments are conveniently and more accurately analyzed by using a computer-oriented simulation process resembling ray tracing in the height-time domain. Advantages of such a process over existing analytical methods are discussed, and typical experiments are simulated to illustrate its flexibility. The technique is modified to yield a numerical method for directly synthesizing D-region electron density and collision frequency profiles from experimental interaction measurements. Accuracy limitations inherent in the synthesis process raise doubts about the utility of the basic experiment as an accurate D-region electron density probe."
"Following the earlier treatments of Sodha and Palumbo, the author has investigated the mutual nonlinear interaction of a number of electromagnetic waves in a magnetoplasma. For simplicity in mathematical analysis, all the waves have been assumed to be moving in the same direction, viz, the direction of the magnetic field. The interesting phenomenon of resonances is discussed in detail."
"This paper presents an exact formulation of the propagation of wave packets at whistler and hydromagnetic frequencies in a collision-free, electrically neutral mixture of electrons and ions of one type. Simple expressions are derived for μ', the group refractive index, and for α, the angle between the direction of propagation of a wave packet and the wave normal; μ' and α are explicit functions of X, Y, θ, the magnetoionic symbols, and R, the electron-to-ion mass ratio. Computed values of μ' and α for both a wave frequency f slightly above the proton gyrofrequency fMi. [Y= (fMi/f) (1/R)=1500] and somewhat below it (Y=104) are plotted as a function of X for particular θ values; the μ' and α curves show how magnetoionic theory is modified at low frequencies by including proton motion. Group-ray refractive index surfaces for the large X values which are applicable to whistler and hydromagnetic wave propagation in the magnetosphere are also presented."
"The role of a complex (positive) ion composition in the wind-shear theory of sporadic-E layers is investigated. The vertical drift velocity used is the classical one derived from the “slab” approximation, and it is almost the same for all the different ions. In the new model, with a mixture of positive ions, the limitation of the maximum density of the layers by recombination is much less serious than it was in the old model with a single positive ion. Two special cases are studied: the first is concerned with meteoric ions, and it is shown that very thin rectangular layers may occur if the total amount of these ions is sufficient; the second case involves the ions NO+ and O+2, and in this case it appears that large amplifications of electron density at the layer maxima could easily be accompanied by relatively small reductions at the minima."
"It is estimated that intensity of the E region source of ionization at night is required to be 0.1 percent to 1 percent of the intensity during daytime to allow the formation of sporadic E at night. Possible sources are considered."
"This atlas provides a method whereby the radio refractivity, N, at some height, z, may be accurately estimated by radio engineers during any season of the year for any arbitrary world location where meteorological measurements are not available. The gradient of the refractive index, dN/dz, near the surface of the earth is especially important in evaluating refraction which affects the behavior of radio systems. Distributions of this gradient are also presented on a worldwide basis."
"On the dates indicated, a symposium was held at the Ministry of Posts and Telecommunications in Paris on the subject of “subsurface communications.” This was held under the auspices of the Advisory Group for Aerospace Research and Development of NATO. The program chairman was Dr. Philip Newman of the U.S. Air Force Cambridge Research Laboratories, while the French committee members were Professor M. Bouix and Capt. P. Halley."
"No abstract is available."
"No abstract is available."
"No abstract is available."
"This paper contains the results of analysis of the total electron content (Is) measurements made from the recordings of Faraday rotation at Delhi of the 20 and 40 Mc/s transmissions of the satellite Explorer 22 (S-66) for the period October 1964 through June 1965, the period of low solar activity. The results show that the diurnal maximum is reached around 1300–1400 IST, while at night the electron content falls to low values, decreasing slowly with time until 0600 when it starts to increase. The variations in Is closely follow the f0F2 variations. The ratio Ismax/Ismin increases from 7 for October–December 1964 through 10 for January-March 1965 to about 25 for April–June 1965. It is interesting to note that electron content values are more or less independent of solar activity until the 10-cm solar flux exceeds about 80 units. Above 80 units, there is a positive correlation. The study of dependence of Is on magnetic activity shows that there is positive correlation during daytime, while nighttime values do not show any dependence on magnetic activity. In addition, the electron content seems to have a correlation with solar zenith angle. General features of the thickness parameter τ and the ratio of total to subpeak electron content Is/Ib are also given. The variations of τ are correlated with both solar flux and hmF2 variations. Preliminary examination of occurrence of scintillations is also given."
"A comparison study has been made of the distribution of the total electron content over Europe, in terms of the geomagnetic activity. When geomagnetic activity is low, the geographical distribution of the total electron content shows some irregularities which could be linked to the observation of scintillations. When geomagnetic activity is high, the total electron content is increased but the geographical distribution is much more regular. In such a case, we notice a lack of scintillations in southwestern Europe."
"The analysis of 3 months' observations of Faraday rotation observed on S-66 transmissions made at the Kiruna Geophysical Observatory (ϕ = 67.8°N, λ = 20.3°E) is presented. The ionospheric electron content along the subionospheric path of the satellite was computed for almost 400 transits. Effective slab thicknesses were calculated using critical frequency values from six Scandinavian stations, covering an interval of 10 deg of latitude. Latitudinal and diurnal variations of the ionospheric electron content and the effective thickness were studied. The most striking feature of the latitudinal variation of the total electron content was a distinct minimum at the southern boundary of the auroral zone during winter nighttime. This minimum coincides with the “trough” observed by topside sounding satellites."
"The Faraday fading of a satellite signal has a fairly constant rate, except when the signal propagates through the ionosphere perpendicularly to the earth's magnetic field. At that instant, one notes a sudden slowing down of the fading rate. This usually occurs at receiving stations of low geomagnetic latitude. In this note, the duration of this sharp change in fading rate is calculated from the Appleton-Hartree formula for the refractive index (without collisions), near the transverse propagation conditions. Examples are given of amplitude records showing the “rate anomaly.”"
"The signals of the American satellite Explorer 22 on 20, 40, 41 Mc/s have been received and their amplitudes recorded. The records show the Faraday effect when a fixed linearly polarized antenna is used. Using the Faraday effect, the total electron content can be computed, the total number of rotations being determined by comparing records of 40 and 41 Mc/s. The considerations of this paper are based upon the period January–April 1965. Total electron content decreasing to the north prevail. In addition, a comparison of the Faraday effect on 20 and 40 Mc/s was performed. At small zenithal distances the Faraday periods on both frequencies (reduced to the same frequency) become equal; at larger distances typical deviations are observed."
"Measurements of the Faraday rotation of a 136.98 Mc/s signal radiated from the geostationary satellite Syncom 3 is used to determine the time variation in the total electron content in the ionosphere. Good agreement of the time variation between the Faraday rotation and the square of f0F2 is found, and the slope of the line of this relationship is determined by the distribution of electron density at a particular height. Absolute values of total electron content are determined from the intercept on the ordinate intersected by this line. Good agreement is maintained not only on the quiet day, but also on the disturbed day."
"The total electron content of the ionosphere was measured continuously from a northern mid-latitude station during the summer of 1965 by monitoring the polarization twist of VHF radio signals from the Early Bird synchronous satellite. The ambiguity in the total amount of polarization twist of the Early Bird signal was resolved by measuring the total polarization twist of a lunar reflected radio wave at a time when the moon coincided in direction with Early Bird. Large day-to-day differences in electron content were seen. The late afternoon maximum value of electron content was not well related to magnetic activity. Many small, irregular changes in electron content were observed. Diurnal values of electron content were much lower than those observed during 1961. Observations of polarization twist of VHF radio waves from synchronous satellites provide a simple, accurate means of measuring diurnal, seasonal, and anomalous changes in ionospheric total electron content."
"The VHF emission of the Early Bird geostationary satellite during the period June 23 to July 9, 1965, has been used for ionospheric measurements at Florence, Italy (43°48' N, 11°13' E). Electron content daily variation curves obtained from Faraday rotation measurements show a maximum-to-minimum ratio of about 5. The equivalent slab thickness ranges from 140 to 310 km. The scintillation occurrence shows maxima at night and at noon."
"Preliminary results of an extensive investigation of the topside ionosphere over the North and South American continents are presented. The required data are obtained through the reduction and analysis of a large number of Alouette I topside ionograms. Illustrative examples of typical latitudinal variations (from 80° N to 80° S geographic latitudes or 90° N to 60° S dip latitudes) of electron density (N) and corresponding scale height (Hv) are presented. The characteristic features of equatorial, midlatitude and polar ionospheres are described. Assuming the topside ionosphere is in a state of diffusive equilibrium above 500 km, the scale height of electron distribution along magnetic field lines (Hs) is calculated. The physical significance and interpretation of the computed scale height, (Hs), curves are discussed."
"A brief review is given of certain selected aspects of radio star and satellite scintillations. The topics discussed include the theory of wave propagation through random media, the bandwidth of scintillations, secondary effects which may reduce scintillations, and interplanetary scintillations. The review ends with a discussion of some outstanding problems in this field."
"The characteristics of Jovian decametric pulses are compared with satellite and radio star scintillations known to arise in the terrestrial ionosphere. The diurnal, seasonal, and altitude variations of the scintillation phenomena appear to be absent in the planetary signals, suggesting that the local ionosphere is not the source of the Jovian pulse structure. On the other hand, the ionosphere exerts a marked influence on the probability of reception, and to a lesser extent on the intensity, of the Jovian decametric signals."
"Wide bandwidth differential phase measurements have been taken on the 162 and 324 Mc/s emissions of Anna IB and 63038c satellites from Point Buchon, Calif, and College, Alaska. The measurements are analyzed to determine parameters describing fine scale electron distribution in contrast to smooth ionosphere parameters. Electron content variations show a cloud-like structure with apparent scale sizes less than 20 m in both day and night ionospheres."
"A quantitative evaluation and comparison are made of independent 68 Mc/s angular and amplitude scintillation data received at the College, Alaska, experimental station. A phase-sweep interferometer system is employed and the outputs are digitized for subsequent analyses. A correlation analysis is made between ionospheric absorption, magnetic variation, and the angular and amplitude scintillation data. Some results are presented which show an association between short-term absorption events and the enhancement of scintillation activity. Power spectral analysis and cross-correlation analysis are made of the experimental data. Given theoretical ionization models, the computed ground diffraction patterns are compared with experimental data. The majority of the observations are consistent with an ionospheric model comprised of kilometer-scale electron density gradients in combination with random scatterers."
"Scintillations of the radio source Cassiopeia A observed at 113 Mc/s during the period October 1961 through July 1964 were scaled to determine a semi-quantitative index of the scintillation of source power. For fixed values of local magnetic activity mean diurnal variations were established which peaked about two hours before solar and magnetic midnight. Mean sidereal variation peaked at lower transit; this effect, attributed primarily to latitude, is compared to satellite scintillations. Both diurnal and sidereal variations showed an increase of mean scintillation activity with increase of magnetic index. Detailed examination of low magnetic index periods showed that daytime scintillations were slightly higher on the western side (towards the magnetic pole), while nighttime scintillations showed symmetry. However, with increasing magnetic activity, scintillation indices are considerably higher at night in the west while daytime scintillations are skewed to the east. A comparison of these observations with Penndorf's model of traveling and permanent maxima of spread F is attempted. The general features of the diurnal-latitude variation of the radio star scintillation index is compared to the diurnal and latitude variation of spread F (topside and bottomside). While there is a general correlation, differences between scintillations and spread F noted in topside sounders are considerable."
"Observations of scintillation on signals radiated on a frequency of 20.005 Mc/s from a series of satellites are used to derive diurnal variations in the appearance of scintillation. Marked seasonal changes in daytime scintillation are apparent, but it is shown that summarizing for the four conventional seasons may mask some of the more significant changes."
"This work reports the results of (a) a study of SCNA observations made with a multifrequency riometer system operating at Delhi, and (b) a comparative study of SCNA's and satellite measurements of X-ray flux."
"High-latitude ionospheric absorption is shown to exhibit a magnetic, rather than local, time dependence. The spatial and temporal variations of absorption are compared to the same variations of impact zones for solar protons in the energy range 50 MeV to 1.0 GeV, and the agreement is shown to be good. Similar agreement is found when various other ionospheric disturbance parameters are considered. The conclusion is tentatively reached that a more or less continuous flux of solar protons is entering the earth's atmosphere, which if valid, would have important consequences in the study of the energy balance of the ionosphere as well as that of the sun itself."
"When radio waves penetrate the inhomogeneous troposphere the first order effect is a phase perturbation of the field. The field distortions diffract energy into new space frequencies which give information on the size of tropospheric irregularities. Simultaneous transmission through the troposphere on several frequencies between a ground station and a high flying airplane has provided experimental diffraction patterns produced by the medium. A dominant scale size of a few miles extent parallel to the earth's surface and a few hundred feet along the vertical has been found."
"Atmospheric attenuation measurements have been made for four seasons during 1962 and 1963 at Sagamore Hill Radio Observatory, Hamilton, Mass., at a wavelength of 3.27 cm. A definite seasonal trend was noted with the greatest attenuation observed during the winter when an average vertical attenuation of 0.13 dB was measured. The trend is compared with temperature and seasonal averages of surface barometric pressure. Summer attenuation in 1964 is compared with similar measurements made in 1956 in the same geographical area."
"Apparent sky temperatures measured at 15, 17, and 35 Gc/s over a period of a year are compared with values calculated from the radiative transfer equation. Temperature, pressure, and relative humidity profiles, which are necessary to solve the radiative equation, are obtained from radiosonde data which are taken simultaneously with radiometric measurements. It is found that apparent sky temperatures calculated using the presently accepted line breadth constant for oxygen are not in good agreement with measured values. It is shown that by increasing the oxygen line breadth constant, calculated values within experimental error of measured apparent sky temperatures are obtained."
"The results of previous calculations have shown that, due to the heavy absorption of the atmospheric oxygen, the resultant radiation both in the wells and in the cores of the 60-Gc/s spectral complex provides a radiometrically bright mantle surrounding the earth. It becomes evident when viewed from space that this oxygen mantle could supply a uniform, nonfluctuating signal for radiometric sensing. This paper presents a quantitative expression of a technique of observing the 5-mm self-emission from the oxygen of the earth's atmosphere in order to obtain a vertical sense. The choice of operating frequency is a selection process in which a frequency is determined for which the atmospheric opacity is great enough to reject the radiation from the lower atmosphere, and at the same time have sufficient transmissivity in the upper atmosphere to allow predominance of radiation from the 15- to 32-km region. Under these conditions a uniform and well-defined radiating disk should be seen. To the degree that the observed disk exhibits circularly uniform emission and the mantle possesses spherically homogeneous density, the line through its center of brightness may be defined as the direction corresponding to the local vertical at the spacecraft. This may be determined as the boresight axis of a lobe comparison antenna system."
"Ray patterns—showing the spatial distribution of rays emitted from a transmitter and then progressively refracted in the medium—are presented for frequencies from 13.6 to 40 Mc/s, and for variations of the ionosphere in one to three dimensions. The patterns portray the elevated radio ducts, with down-to-earth contacts, responsible for long-distance and round-the-world propagation. It is shown that constancy of Doppler frequency shift, in signal reception from an antipodal satellite pass, is a condition enabling the signal to persist some minutes, and that this constancy implies propagation off the great-circle path."
"Signals transmitted by satellite ORBIS at 10.004 Mc/s were received at Haringhata Field Station (geomagnetic lat. 12°15' N, geomagnetic long. 32° W). Long-distance propagation paths could be established between the station and the satellite in some passes, while a few overhead passes could not be received. Absence of signals from a few overhead passes is explained in terms of blanketing-type sporadic E. It is concluded that long-distance propagation paths may be sustained either by hop modes in the presence of irregularities in the ionosphere or by ionospheric ducting."
"A 10-Mc/s beacon, the Orbital Radio Beacon Ionospheric Satellite (ORBIS) was launched on 18 November 1964, and was observed at many locations throughout the world. Temporal effects noted at the AFCRL observatories in Mass, include (a) extremely long-range propagation observed from the northwest near and after local sunrise, the signals cutting off as the satellite passed below the horizon to the south, (b) during the post-midnight hours long range propagation observed beyond-the-horizon from the south. Similar effects were noted also in the U.S.A. at Urbana, Ill. and St. Louis, Mo. Data taken by members of the Joint Satellite Studies Group in Europe showed general agreement with the U.S.A. overhead observations, but because of high local interference little long-range propagation was noted. The southern and equatorial regions appeared far more favorable to long-range propagation, especially for signals propagated from the Northern Hemisphere during the midnight hours."
"The design of an experiment to provide conclusive proof of the existence of HF/VHF whispering gallery propagation in the ionosphere below F2Hmax (and to explore its characteristics) has recently been completed and the necessary instrumentation developed and built. The design has been performed on the basis of the results of the simulation of the phenomenon in a digital computer which has integrated in a self-consistent model the fragmentary, incomplete knowledge of the phenomenon available to date. A satellite-to-satellite configuration has been chosen, as suitable both to prove unambiguously the existence of whispering-gallery propagation in the lower ionosphere, and for gathering information basic to the evaluation of the practical usefulness of the guided paths for communications, and to their channel characterization."
"No abstract is available."
"No abstract is available."
"No abstract is available."
"An analysis of data from three sets of experiments in transhorizon microwave propagation is presented. In each set, a 3-Gc/s signal was transmitted over a 163-km path, and the wave arriving at the receiver was examined using a rapidly scanning phased-array antenna. In one mode of operation, transmitter and receiver were synchronously swept over a 20-Mc/s frequency band. The results show considerable variability in all quantities derived from the data. Received power patterns on occasions were scarcely broader than the receiving antenna pattern and at other times showed considerable power arriving off the great-circle bearing. A classification of such patterns into \"stable” and “unstable” showed no strong association with time of day. Signal level distributions were often, but by no means always, of the Rayleigh form. The time lag required for the signal autocorrelation to drop to 0.5 —indicative of fading period — varied from a half second to a few seconds. A similar measure of transmissable bandwidth — in terms of frequency correlation — showed a variability from 1 or 2 Mc/s to more than 20. The interrelationship between all these quantities, and their connection with meteorological parameters, showed interesting individual relationships but no clear-cut overall pattern, except for a general increase in signal level associated with pronounced inversions. In comparison with various atmospheric models, it becomes obvious that no single simple model is sufficient. On some occasions the received signal showed characteristics predicted from the theory of incoherent scatter by turbulent eddies: distorted angular response patterns with an average beam broadening, Rayleigh-type signal level distribution, a modest fading rate, and limited transmissable bandwidth. On other occasions, the records showed evidence of marked atmospheric stability and stratification: unbroadened and undistorted antenna response patterns, a more restricted and non-Rayleigh signal level distribution, variable fading rates, and extremely wide bandwidths. There are still other cases where these associations are not well defined."
"A simple solution of the problem of scattering of radio waves in successive encounters with a rough earth and an ionosphere which introduces irregularities into the phase is presented. This leads to calculated shapes of the incoming angular power spectrum and of the antipodal area and indicates that, under some special circumstances, an antipodal circle of enhanced signal strength may also be present. Some comparisons are made with a few experimental results."
"High-frequency radio signals transmitted over two separate 10,000-km temperate-zone paths were received over 1-month periods at sea level and at elevated sites. Five frequencies were transmitted from Okinawa to Malta and one frequency from Puerto Rico to Hawaii. A comparison of the signal strengths indicates that high antenna siting provides definite advantages over low siting for long-distance communication. Antennas at the high sites, which were located an average of 700 ft above the low sites, received greater signal strengths than those at the low sites, the amount of signal strength advantage (as much as 10 dB) decreasing with increasing frequency. The higher sites were also less susceptible to temporary signal-strength reductions. When signal strengths were in the process of rising and falling as a result of the change of the MUF in the morning and evening, respectively, high antennas provided up to 1½ hr more receiving time for a specified signed threshold."
"A device is described which was built to provide representative fading multipath channel behavior for the investigation of communication system performance. The unit is based on the tapped delay line approach and operates in the band of 50 to 8000 c/s. The tap modulation functions are cam-generated with adjustable correlation. Fading bandwidths of 0 to 5 c/s are available, and 30 hr of operation are possible at a fading bandwidth of 1 c/s with no repetition of the pattern. Dual diversity output and additive noise and interference facilities are provided. In the HF mode, test results are presented showing Rayleigh amplitude fading and flat phase statistics for any input frequency between 300 and 3300 c/s. The unit is also used for underwater path simulation by substituting a tape recorder with multiple pickups as the delay device. In this mode, delay spreads of up to 10 sec may be obtained. Finally, elementary sonar path simulation is achieved by using the tape delay system for outgoing and return-path simulation coupled with a tapped delay line for target highlight synthesis."
"This paper presents some results of virtual-height computations by full-wave and ray-optics methods for low-frequency radio waves reflected from a stratified ionosphere. It is concluded that ray optics without collisions included would give more accurate results than if collisions are included in the computations for both the ordinary and extraordinary modes. This has been substantiated by accurate full-wave computations taking into account the earth's magnetic field. The subject of a correction factor is briefly considered."
"An electromagnetic groundwave propagating along the surface of the earth will be partially transmitted and partially reflected at an abrupt electrical discontinuity such as a coastline, lake, island, peninsula, river, certain types of mineral deposits, etc. The theoretical work of Wait is extended to yield a solution which can be applied to semi-infinite or finite ground plane inhomogeneities of arbitrary shape. Calculations were made for two special cases: perpendicular propagation near a semi-infinite strip (e.g., a peninsula), and near a small rectangular island. The theoretical solution was experimentally verified to a good order of accuracy through the use of microwave-frequency (4.3 Gc/s) laboratory models on which both amplitude and phase measurements were made. In these models, water was used to simulate imperfectly conducting media, while aluminum plates simulated perfectly conducting media. It is shown that the position of a semi-infinite strip or island transverse to the direction of propagation has considerable influence on the phase of the transmitted signal."
"The oscillatory modes of a sharply bounded plasma which involve surface charge are studied by a method which includes the behavior of the surface charge. It is found that these modes are “quasi-oscillations” —they do not persist indefinitely, eventually being destroyed by multistreaming. They are inherently nonlinear, not even possessing a linearizeable limit if the density gradient is made finite. An important conclusion is that the surface charge modes probably play no role in laboratory experiments on the scattering and a-c probe resonances. On the other hand, there may be situations in which the surface charge modes would contribute importantly to an experiment, hut would not be predicted by a linearized theory."
"The plasma which is analyzed is described by the linearized electron-fluid equations, and source terms are included. Anisotropic effects which are caused by the presence of an externally applied constant axial magnetic field are included in this analysis. It is shown that a set of three potentials can be introduced, provided a three-by-three matrix can be diagonalized. For the model without the magnetic field this matrix is diagonalized. Two of the resulting potentials are then shown to be scalar multiples of the Hertzian potentials for the electromagnetic part of the equations and the remaining potential is a scalar multiple of the pressure. A brief outline is included to show how 2 + n potentials could be introduced for the anisotropic multifluid model."
"In the study of wave propagation in a warm magneto-ionic plasma, the fluid equations are usually supplemented by the equation of state where the pressure is assumed to be isotropic. This model appears to be a good approximation only for a collision-dominated regime. In this paper, the third moment equation derived from the Boltzmann-Vlasov equation is used instead of the equation of state. By following the Chew-Goldberger-Low theory, the dispersion relation for plane wave propagation can be determined under the adiabatic condition, for strong magnetic field, and without assuming isotropic pressure. Discussions of propagation characteristics under a few special conditions are also included."
"This paper presents a physical-optics solution for the backscattering from a concave ring singularity. The solution for a convex ring singularity has been known for some time. When taken together, the two solutions provide a simple way for estimating the backscattering from ring singularities of practically every type. Since the radar returns from rings are often dominant, the solutions should have many important applications."
"The apparent admittance of a cylindrical antenna depends critically on the structure of the conductors near the junction of the antenna and the feeding line. For thin cylinders and closely spaced lines an ideal admittance can be defined in the hypothetical limit of “zero” line spacing. The approximate theoretical equivalent is the admittance seen by a delta-function generator with the infinite susceptance of the knife-edge capacitance subtracted. The iterated theoretical admittance of a cylindrical antenna with a delta-function generator is examined for from one to 30 iterations. It is shown that for β0α ⩽ 0.1 or α/λ ⩽ 0.016 (where α is the radius, β0 = 2π/λ the wave number) the conductance converges rapidly, but the susceptance increases continually with the added iterations by an amount proportional to the circumference of the antenna. The more accurate the solution, the nearer the susceptance approaches infinity. A simple empirical correction is combined with the second-order iterated value to provide a good approximation of the ideal independent susceptance of the antenna. When β0α ⩽ 0.1, the second-order corrected admittance is essentially the same when calculated with either the exact kernel for the tubular antenna or the commonly used average kernel. Tables of the admittance Y, impedance Z, radian effective length β0he, and directivity D are given. When combined with the terminal-zone network for a particular transmission line, the measurable apparent admittance and impedance of a cylindrical antenna are obtained with essentially as great an accuracy as is possible in terms of an “independent” admittance for the antenna. More accurate values depend on the individual analysis of each transmission line-antenna configuration."
"In this paper, a stratified model of a linear refractive index profile is shown to produce artificial interference phenomena if the stratum thickness is improperly chosen. An isotropic, time invariant medium has been selected for computational purposes. The exact method of invariant imbedding is used for the numerical analysis."
"No abstract is available."
"No abstract is available."
"Evidently d-c bias can help to solve the nonuniform electron density problem, but it can also create new problems arising from the direct contact between the electron gas and the metal surface of the probe. Almost all the electrons striking the metal surface are absorbed, an effect which gives rise to the familiar Langmuir probe current-voltage characteristic. In fact, the slope of the Langmuir probe characteristic has been used by Mlodnosky and Garriott [1962] to obtain a probe impedance formula valid at very low frequencies. At higher frequencies (those approaching plasma frequency) little is known about probe impedance under conditions of sheath collapse. In this paper an attempt is made to derive an absorptive surface theory which will give some indication of sheath collapse effects over a wide range of frequencies."
"The scattering of radio waves in the solar corona will eradicate the fine structure of radio source brightness distributions. The magnitude of this effect is estimated for observations in various directions by a radio telescope situated at the earth. Even for observation in the antisolar direction, this effect may limit the resolution attainable by radio telescopes that would be otherwise technically feasible."
"No abstract is available."
"This paper describes a method for solving some problems involving discontinuities in waveguides. As an example of the application of the method, the trifurcated waveguide is treated. It is suggested that the trifurcation can be considered to be two bifurcations in tandem. It is shown that the solution to the trifurcation problem, which is difficult to obtain, can be written in terms of the solution to the bifurcation, which is relatively easy to obtain. Numerical results are included."
"Wait [1965] has criticized my paper “Remarks on Austin's formula.” In that paper [Volland, 1964a] the mode theory of the ELF and VLF propagation within a flat waveguide has been extended into the LF region. It has been shown that the empirical Austin formula [Austin, 1915], the modified version due to Espenschied et al. [1926], and the relative attenuation maximum around 40 kc/s found by Anderson [1931] may be interpreted qualitatively by the flat model."
"No abstract is available."
"Current distributions for cylindrical dipoles in isotropic compressible plasmas have been determined for discrete sets of plasma temperature and densities. Coupling between the optical and plasma modes at the surface of the antenna have been accounted for, producing quite different electrical lengths than experienced in incompressible plasmas. Calculations have been made on the assumption that the normal electron velocity of the compressible plasma vanishes at the surface of the antenna. A new approximation technique has allowed simplified computer solutions for the eigenvalues determining the current distribution on the cylindrical structure. Resulting current distributions display hybrid optical-plasma characteristics for certain frequency spectra. These results clearly point out the form of the assumed current distribution for a given structure. Having obtained an approximation for the electroacoustic current distribution, calculations for the radiation resistance of an electric dipole are easily performed. Results for the radiation resistance of various lengths of the antenna are presented, illustrating the dominance of the plasma mode for certain frequency spectra. Results have also been obtained for discrete sets of plasma temperature and densities, as well as different length-to-diameter ratios of the dipole antenna. A discussion of the field structure of the optical-plasma mode is included."
"Numerical results are presented for the conductance and susceptance of a slotted-sphere antenna which is immersed in a compressible, isotropic, and lossless electron plasma. Previous series expansions for the parameters of interest are cast in a form suitable for numerical work. The results indicate that an appreciable fraction of the power radiated is in the form of electroacoustic waves. However, this fraction may be significantly reduced if the sphere is surrounded by an electron depletion layer (i.e., a sheath) whose thickness is somewhat greater than a Debye length."
"Beckmann's study of the effect on polarization of reflection from a tilted plane is modified and extended to the case of partial polarization. The approach used is simpler than Beckmann's and exhibits the symmetry of the results. Some errors in Beckmann's work are corrected."
"Simple modifications of formulas presented by A. A. Oliner are found to allow the determination of the impedance and resonant length of a slot in rectangular waveguide when the guide is filled with dielectric material. The modifications are justified by reference to earlier work by Oliner and others, and are verified by experimental results. (It has been recently learned that B. R. Cheo of New York University and H. Jones have collaborated on a very similar study. Their work is in agreement and will be reported in the near future.)"
"It is shown that linearly polarized electromagnetic waves can exist in a bounded magnetoplasma and propagate at an arbitrary angle with respect to the magnetic field lines. Although the electric field of these waves is linearly polarized, the refractive index vector consists of real and imaginary parts which are othogonal to each other in a collisionless plasma. The amplitude of the fields grow in direction of the imaginary part of the refractive index, and thus one surface must always be present to terminate and to guide the electromagnetic fields. Hence this theory is a generalization of surface-wave phenomena occurring in magnetoplasmas. Expressions are developed which explicitly show the dependence of the real and imaginary parts of the refractive index upon the plasma parameters for an arbitrary angle of propagation with respect to the magnetic field. The special case of the propagation vector and the electric field oriented perpendicular to the magnetic field is discussed in detail. Experiments are presented which are in excellent agreement with the surface-wave theory of this special case."
"An earlier explanation of sunrise and sunset fading on long VLF paths is confirmed by examining data taken over a wider range of frequency and directions of propagation. It is found, however, that there is an appreciable dependence of the fading period on the magnetic direction of propagation. It is shown that this dependence is qualitatively in agreement with what would be expected from a sharply bounded ionosphere and a transverse magnetic field."
"A uniform electric line current source is immersed a short distance into an ionospheric halfspace, the model of which is a homogeneous, linear, cold, lossy, single-component magnetoplasma halfspace. Formal integral expressions for the electric fields radiated into the adjoining air halfspace are derived by a solution of Maxwell's equations in each region, using double Fourier transform techniques. The formal integral expressions for the radiation-zone electric fields in air are evaluated asymptotically by the method of stationary phase. Radiation patterns are plotted for several combinations of polarization, frequency, depth of immersion, direction of magnetostatic field, and region of ionosphere. The field strength increases with frequency in the VLF spectrum, for a given strength of the line source. The field strengths are considerably larger for a magnetostatic field B0=0.5 G than for B0=0. There is a tendency for the vertical polarization to be enhanced in directions along B0 and reduced in directions perpendicular to B0. The horizontal polarization is affected less by B0 than the vertical polarization."
"This paper contains results of a measurement program on 751 Mc/s and 9.2 Gc/s using a long mountain-obstacle diffraction path in Colorado. Data are analyzed and evaluated in terms of longterm and short-term variability, correlation coefficients between carrier envelopes received on spaced antennas, and comparison of a priori predicted and measured cumulative distributions of hourly transmission loss medians. Results show better agreement between predictions and measurements on 751 Mc/s than on 9.2 Gc/s. Short-term (within-the-hour) variations in signal level on 751 Mc/s can be characterized as prolonged space-wave fadeouts, whereas such variations on 9.2 Gc/s very frequently show characteristics of a Rayleigh-distributed signal."
"The attenuation coefficient A is treated statistically when the radio wave is diffracted by a ridge whose height changes along the ridge around a mean value h0, by assuming a homogeneity of the height variation and its Gaussian multivariate distribution with an arbitrary correlation function. The mean values 〈A〉, 〈|A|2〉, and the correlation 〈A(x1) A∗(x2)〉 at separate points are obtained exactly, including the case where the root mean square value of the height variation exceeds the magnitude of h0 (measured normally from the line connecting the transmitter and the receiver). The mean value 〈A〉 can be obtained by using the same formula as used for a smooth ridge, if the ridge height is replaced by an effective height of a complex value. While 〈A〉|h0=0 =½, which is the same as for a smooth ridge, the mean value 〈|A|2〉|h0=0 varies from ¼ to ½ as the variance of the height changes from 0 to ∞."
"This report begins by describing the distribution of reflection points in the ionospheric E propagation as observed in the Far East. The ionospheric attenuation of the Es signal is statistically treated as a function of a ratio of the frequency used to the critical frequency, f0Es, at the path midpoint; and its distance dependence is compared with the so-called secant law. The attenuation of two-hop Es signals is discussed, utilizing the observational results. In addition, the occurrence of a noticeable deterioration in antenna gain, corresponding to “aperture-to-medium coupling loss” in scatter propagation, is elucidated. Three charts are presented for estimating Es signal strength up to a distance of 4,000 km. A study is also made of the receiving rate of Es signals."
