"A series of tapes were coated in which the concentration of the magnetic ferric oxide was essentially the sole variable. Magnetic and electroacoustic properties were evaluated as a function of magnetic oxide concentration. The intrinsic coercivity was found to increase slightly with decreasing oxide concentration but not to the extent predicted by the simple packing factor law. Biasing current changed in approximately the same ratio as coercivity. The sensitivity was directly proportional to the remanent flux density but the saturation output was proportional to the remanent flux. The linear range of the recording process increased appreciably with increasing oxide concentration. Frequency response decreased very slightly. Signal-to-noise ratio increased with increasing magnetic oxide concentration. Particle interactions had a strong effect upon the signal-to-print-through ratio. A decrease in magnetic oxide concentration to 50 percent of normal increased this ratio by 4 dB although coercivity was increased only slightly more than 5 percent."
"An analytical basis for the design of a ferroresonant transformer is developed. A normal ferroresonant transformer without any control winding is considered, and piece-wise linear approximations are assumed for the magnetization curve of the material. An equivalent electrical circuit for the secondary of the transformer is obtained, and the basic concept leading to the equivalent circuit is also discussed. The circuit is then analyzed, utilizing linear circuit theory, for both no load and resistive load assuming a square wave input (as in the case of dc to ac conversion). The results obtained from the analysis of the equivalent circuit are utilized in deriving expressions for 1) the number of primary turns Npfor a given input voltage, 2) the number of secondary turns Ns, 3) the value of the capacitanceCrequired for the maximum power output, and 4) the relation between the capacitance and the ratio of air gap area to air gap length. A set of curves is provided to facilitate the choice of capacitance."
"Static, 3-phase, magnetic/electronic, line-to-line voltage regulators are frequently unstable because of an interaction between the separate regulators of each phase. A means of improving stability by establishing a signal path between the control circuits of each phase has been developed. Conventional means of improving stability, and the response of the regulator-to-line voltage modulation are reviewed."
"An analysis is presented of a 3-phase magnetic amplifier with bridge-connected output circuit and any number of series-connected and parallel-connected control windings. Approximate output difference equations are derived for two modes of operation representing one-half to minimum output and one-half to full output. These output difference equations express the dynamic relationship of the sixth-cycle average input and outputvoltages in terms of a core function and the control circuit resistances. The importance of a feedback factor associated with the fraction of the voltage from a gating core which appears across the cores in a position to be reset is demonstrated. Approximate gain and time constant expressions appropriate for a simplified dynamic representation are derived from the difference equations and a more complicated block diagram representation."
"To study the nondestructive readout properties of thick magnetic film devices, sense voltages are computed for triangular interrogate word pulses. Eddy currents are assumed to be the exclusive damping mechanism. For a given pulse rise time one can obtain a maximum signal peak value with a given optimum film thickness, and the read signal of an optimized film can be approximated by simple analytical functions. In an attempt to describe the nondestructive readout stability, a relation is developed between pulse widths, angle of rotation of the magnetization, and reversibility threshold."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"The use of series-connected saturable reactors operating in the constrained mode has proven to be a reliable and trouble-free means for developing constant current power such as that required by transoceanic cable systems. As the art has progressed towards the use of higher and higher ac power frequencies, however, it has become increasingly difficult to design a single ac power source of substantial power rating without resorting to rather complex and inefficient circuitry. In practice, the saturable reactors are used in conjunction with transformers. This paper demonstrates that by departing from convention in the design of the saturable reactor and output transformer, it is possible, using a single reactor and transformer, to combine the outputs from a multiplicity of ac power sources or converter stages on a load sharing basis so as to obtain a single supply with the required power rating. The particular arrangement of the specially designed saturable reactor and output transformer permits a unique interaction to be established in which the two complement one another; the reactor controlling the summation of source currents to achieve output regulation and the transformer proportioning these currents among the sources to insure proper sharing of load power. Variations in load power are automatically accompanied by a shift in the operating power factor of the individual sources. Also, because the method affords electrical isolation, sources of unequal current, voltage, and power ratings can readily be combined. Furthermore, this technique permits the use of excess (redundant) ac sources so that normal operation can be maintained following the loss of output from any one of the sources."
"The analysis of minor hysteresis loop behavior during partial alternating flux reversal in toroidal cores with a rectangular hysteresis loop is considered. A simple flux-reversal model is proposed on the basis of which, with the aid of dimensionless units, the asymmetry of minor hysteresis loops is derived. The drift of minor hysteresis loops during alternating flux reversal is investigated on the basis of loop asymmetry and by means of a proposed indirect method. The method involves compensation of the minor-loop drift by means of a dc component of the exciting field, the magnitude and sense of which are a measure of the drift. The experimental section deals partly with a qualitative comparison of the character of the actual asymmetry of a minor loop with that derived from the flux reversal model, and partly with comparing the actual minor-loop drift to the drift derived theoretically on the basis of the indirect method. Experimental results indicate that in the case of the 50 percent nickel-iron alloy, cold-rolled at a great reduction, there appear additional factors which affect the instability of the minor loop. This effect is further investigated, and a simplified mechanism is proposed for its stimulation. Finally, the proposed mechanism is verified experimentally."
"Uniaxial thin Permalloy films are driven with a large amplitude sinusoidalHfield in order to approximate a ramp drive. TheHfield is characterized by rise times which exceed3 \\times 10^{6}Oe/s. Two mathematical models are suggested to represent the loss measurements obtained in a domain wall motion region and in an incoherent rotation region. A normalized loss threshold is determined which characterizes the transition between the two regions. In the slow reversal or wall motion region, the normalized losses are proportional to the square root of α whereH = \\alpha t. In the relatively fast reversal or incoherent rotation region, the normalized losses are proportional to α. In both cases the inverse switching time is proportional to the coercive force in excess of the static value. Experimental data verify the reasonableness of the mathematical models."
"Magnetization reversal in planar magnetic films can occur for field amplitudes well below the static threshold. Repeated field transitions parallel to a film's hard axis in the presence of an easy-axis field can cause slow motion or creeping of the domain boundaries. Experimental observations of magnetization creep and proposed creep mechanisms are reviewed. Creep was studied in slow-rising sinewave and pulsed hard-axis fields. The effective creep thresholds obtained for these cases are compared. In an operating mode in which a bipolar easy-axis pulse and a unipolar word pulse are used, creep is reduced and the effective creep threshold is improved. Examples of domain growth in unipolar and bipolar hard-axis fields are shown in a series of Kerr optical photographs demonstrating the creep process."
"A high volumetric density wire memory stack of 12 000 bits/in3was designed. The high bit density was obtained by the introduction of a novel and continuous digit line printed circuit which is also used to separate and support the plated wires. The printed circuit is also used for interconnecting the planes of the memory stack. Analysis of digit current and signal coupling is given. The advantages of the proposed memory stack configuration are apparent. These include low digit current and digit signal coupling along with good word and digit noise cancellations and high bit density."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Thin magnetic film switching was investigated for fields near those needed for pure rotation. Experimentally the films were switched using <0.4 ns rise time field pulses. The resulting flux changes were detected in the easy and hard direction with a response time of 0.6 ns. Measurements were made for pulses both longer and shorter than the magnetization switching times. By analyzing the voltage waveforms and flux changes, it was concluded that instabilities and rapid rearrangements of the magnetization can occur within a few nanoseconds, causing anomalous results during switching. Equations of existing quantitative switching models-pure rotation, spin-wave, and stripe domain-were solved with a digital computer. To better compare theory and experiment, the solutions were modified to account for the sense system's finite rise time. It was found that none of the existing models adequately described the switching processes for low amplitude magnetic fields. However, qualitatively, the stripe domain model best fit the experimental data."
"Thin Permalloy films of zero-magnetostrictive composition were evaporated on a variety of metal film underlayers of various thicknesses (which were deposited on glass substrates) and also on smooth metallic substrates. In contrast to Prosen et al., however, the observed uniaxial magnetic anisotropy is not zero. In thin Permalloy films (100-1000 Å) deposited on high melting-point metal films (Mo, Ti, Pd, and Cr), essentially the same anisotropy field is obtained as is normally observed on glass substrates. In these films the coercivity and the angular dispersion increase slightly as the underlayer thickness increases. Permalloy properties on low melting-point metals (Au, Ag, Cu, and Al) depend strongly upon the underlayer thickness. At a given substrate temperature, a maximum in coercivity and angular dispersion is found in ∼100 Å thick underlayers of Au, Ag, and Cu. In Al underlayers, the values of coercive force along the easy and hard axis increase rapidly as a function of thickness. Large values of the easy-axis skew are obtained in all metal underlayers where the direction of the skew depends upon the geometrical arrangement of the vapor source (Permalloy) and the substrate. These effects are attributed to the microstructure and morphology of the underlayers. Electron microscopy studies are presented in confirmation of these surface geometrical effects."
"Analyses of the self-saturating magnetic amplifiers are generally restricted to the pure resistive load cases. There are a few reports related to capacitive loads and some others on inductive loads. The possibility of occurrence of abnormal phenomena in the self-saturating magnetic amplifier with capacitive load has been reported, but their mechanism of circuit behavior is not yet clear. In this paper, the circuit operation is analyzed in detail from the stability point of view and the mechanism of peculiar modes is investigated. The circuit operation is represented by the nonlinear difference equations which are derived from the continuity of both charge and flux linkage. Linear difference equations for small disturbances occurring at the equilibrium state directly suggest the stability of the equilibrium state and possibility of occurrences of the peculiar modes. Further, the control characteristics and the transient responses are calculated and the criteria for prevention of the peculiar modes are found in simple forms. The theoretical analyses show good agreement with experimental results."
"A new type of polyphase multivibrator is introduced in which saturable cores are the timing elements and transistors the switching elements. The basic units are like the multivibrators invented by Royer and others, but, in the new polyphase circuit, several single-phase multivibrators with a common dc source are constrained by a loop connection of windings on the cores in such a way that polyphase output voltages are obtained. Detailed analysis of a typical 3-phase circuit leads to conclusions regarding the frequency of oscillation and the output voltage waveforms which conform to experimental observations. Novel arrangements are presented by means of which 2-phase voltages can be obtained from a 3-phase multivibrator."
"The influence of some parameters of the 2-stage self-saturating magnetic amplifier on its steady-state and transient properties is described. It is shown that applying anR,Cfilter between both stages ensures proper operation of the amplifier. On the basis of the difference equations describing the single stage self-saturating magnetic amplifier, the discrete transmittance of the circuit can be derived. It is pointed out that the back reaction of the second stage on the first appears in cascade. The time constants of the cascade are not equal to the time constants of stages working separately. The influence of the electric and magnetic feedback loop over both stages on the stability of the circuit is considered. There are given conditions under which, when the transient state is caused by a jump change of control voltage, the cascade output voltage appears as an exponential function with two time constants, damped oscillations, or self-sustained oscillations. Characteristic parameters of the cascaded magnetic amplifier are determined. Theoretical results were compared with laboratory investigations."
"A stationary magnetic head scans the width of a record magnetically, enabling successive lines of video information to be recorded on a slowly moving tape. The head contains a large number of laminations. All except one of these are blocked from transducing action with the tape by currents through sweep windings. As the sweep currents are changed, every lamination becomes active in succession. For playback, such a head operates on a magnetic-modulator principle which is sensitive to flux rather than to its rate-of-change."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"The published theoretical treatments on the magnetic recording process are reviewed with particular emphasis on the validity of the models and the assumptions on which they are based. It is concluded that the existing theories fairly well describe the geometrical aspects of recording-transducer to medium spacing and gap lengths-but are deficient in describing analytically the magnetic state of the recording medium before and after demagnetization. Calculated magnetization distributions by harmonic analysis for different recording media are in support of the fact that the usually assumed linear and arctangent magnetization transitions are only rough approximations of the magnetic state of a recording medium between regions of opposite magnetization. Additional shortcomings of our theoretical understanding are indicated by the assumptions of uniform magnetization through the recording medium thickness, neglecting the perpendicular component of the magnetization, and not taking into account finite track widths and magnetostatic interactions between adjacent transitions."
"The eddy current losses and magnetic field distributions in the alternatively magnetized metal tape moving with constant velocityVare analyzed for the case of constant permeability. As a result of the analysis, the effect of additional eddy current losses for velocityVis estimated as approximately proportional to V2and the square of the reciprocal of coil length. Furthermore an interesting result is obtained in that the magnetic fields between tape and coil have leading phase on both time and space with respect to the exciting current. It is thus concluded that there is no effect due to deformed field distributions and additional eddy current losses caused by running velocity of the tape when detected by applying a symmetrically wound coil at center of the exciting coil."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"It is shown that, if some conditions are fulfilled, it is possible to use Preisach's model for the investigation of the distribution function which has a character and temperature dependence similar to the distribution function of local critical fields. At the critical fields an irreversible movement of the Bloch walls appears. This distribution functionK(h_{c})is not affected by the internal interaction fields. Using its first moment the first approximation of the macroscopic coercive force Hcmay be obtained. As an example, the temperature dependence of the functionK(h_{c}), which was obtained for a square-loop MnMg-ferrite in the temperature interval from -194°C up to 200°C is presented. The results are compared with the directly measured macroscopic coercive force temperature dependence."
"Heating and subsequent quenching of aluminum and gallium substituted YIG changes the distribution of the cations among thed- anda- sites in the garnet lattice and, consequently, the magnetization of the material. This effect can be utilized to adjust the magnetization to a particular desired value and to obtain matching samples for microwave devices. This ion redistribution process was studied in detail on single crystal specimens with different amounts of substitution for two purposes: 1) to determine the influence of the heat treatment on the magnetocrystalline anisotropy and 2) to establish the relation which describes the cation migration between the two sites. Therefore, the saturation magnetization and the magnetic anisotropy were measured between 4.2 and 300°K on samples which experienced a variety of heat treatments with subsequent quenching or slow cooling from temperatures between 800 and 1200°C."
"The hysteresis properties of polycrystalline spinel ferrite and garnet compositions with4\\piM_{s}in the 380 to 5000 gauss range were investigated to determine their temperature stability over the range from -55 to +85°C. Magnesium, nickel, and garnet type compositions, which possess low microwave dielectric losses (\\tan \\delta < 0.001) were chosen for investigation. Many of the materials exhibited suitable room temperature characteristics for microwave latching applications. The remanent magnetic flux density, coercive force, and squareness of the hysteresis loop for these compositions were found to be quite temperature dependent, thus placing a limitation on their usefulness. Lithium ferrites, which normally possess high Curie temperatures and high microwave dielectric losses were also investigated. It was found that in these materials the dielectric losses can be reduced to\\tan \\delta < 0.001while providing superior temperature stable hysteresis characteristics. The merits of the lithium ferrites indicate promise for microwave latching applications requiring temperature stability."
"A method for the batch fabrication of storage elements by the electrophoretic deposition of ferrite onto platinum wires is described. Two types of experimental arrays of storage elements and their operating characteristics are given. One consists of an array of orthogonal wires coated with ferrite, the storage elements being formed at the intersection points of the wires. The second uses the rotational switching properties of very thin ferrite coatings on single wires with external strip conductors acting as word lines. The potential of this method of fabrication is shown to be considerable in reducing costs of both storage arrays and associated electronics."
"The position at which a NRZ transition is recorded is dependent on the write current, the effect of increasing the current being to shift the recorded position beyond the trailing gap edge. The shift is more marked with a thick medium than a thin coating, and is worsened if the write head pole tips are approaching saturation. If the recording field changes magnitude when reversed, positive pulses become displaced relative to negative, and pulse pairing occurs. When recording different patterns on adjacent tracks, peak shifts can occur due to writing crosstalk aiding or opposing the head field and the shifts may well impose an upper limit to track density."
"Research on thermally stable ferrite materials tailored to laminated memory arrays operated at low current levels is described. For this application a ferrite combining low coercive force, fast switching, good squareness, small grain size, high Curie temperature, and high resistivity is necessary. The manganese-ferrous ferrite, manganese-lithium ferrite, and manganese-magnesium-ferrite systems (including, in some cases, small amounts of other metal ions) are studied. A manganese-magnesium-zinc ferrite (Zn0.11Mn0.41Mg0.83Fe16.3O4) has the best combination of properties for laminated memory arrays. Arrays containing 256 × 100 conductors were successfully operated, without thermal or current compensation, over a temperature range of 0° to 50°C. The memory arrays described have operating characteristics that are compatible with integrated semiconductor drive currents."
"The continuing interest in the INTERMAG Conference can in great measure be traced to the excellence of it's technical program. The 1967 INTERMAG Program Committee has once again assembled a broad program of 111 papers. Approximately 25 percent of these papers have been prepared by foreign authors."
"The concept is advanced that the write head current amplitude which produces maximum output for a given set of recording conditions can be determined by three nearly independent factors. The first is a static factor related to the head geometry and reluctance at very low frequencies. The second is a time factor related to the tape speed and transient response of the head and the third, a density factor, is determined by the recorded bit density. The time and density factors can be expressed by a set of normalized curves which are relatively independent of head characteristics."
"The dc chopper drive of traction motors using thyristors has many advantages such as the improvement of efficiency, stepless control of motor current, and the elimination of mechanical contactors and the associated maintenance. A considerable amount of literature has been published concerning chopper circuitry and its application to dc motor control. There are some problems to be solved, however, for the actual application in electric railways ; the first is the realization of a high-voltage chopper, the second is the reduction of inductive interference, and the third is the reduction of weight and cost of chopper equipment. The characteristics of a multiple phase chopper circuit which has been developed for traction motor control systems are described. The multiple phase chopper with common load has proved to have the excellent property of reducing the higher harmonic components both in input current and in output current. This results in reducing the inductive interference and minimizing the weight of the smoothing reactor."
"A technique allowing the preparation by vacuum evaporation of a material useable as a storage medium in digital magnetic recording is described. It consists of the evaporation of successive chromium and cobalt layers on a substrate, the nature of which seems indifferent. The coercive force can be adjusted from 200 to 600 Oe by adjusting the cobalt layer thickness. Superimposing identical double layers of chromium-cobalt allows one to obtain the required amount of flux. Such a multiple layered film gives properties identical to those of a homogeneous magnetic material with a coercive force between 200-600 Oe and an induction better than 10 000 gauss. These properties are isotropic. High squareness of the hysteresis cycle, with Mr/Ms > 0.95, is achieved."
"One of the most severe limitations on high-density digital recording is imposed by peak shift, which is defined as the outward displacement of the readback signal peaks corresponding to a recorded bit pattern of two successive ones followed and preceded by a number of zeros. Results of an experimental study of peak shift in thin metallic media are represented along with a correlation of the measured percent peak shift with the magnetic properties and the thickness of the media. It was found that the percent peak shift at a specified bit density varies proportionally with the thickness of the coercivity ratio for coercivities larger than 250 Oe. For lower coercivities, the remanent magnetization of the recording surface becomes increasingly significant in adversely affecting the peak shift, with a corresponding decrease in the importance of thickness. By superposing isolated pulses it was possible to predict the percent peak shift up to extremely large bit densities."
"Control of rate of change of current and voltage in thyristor power circuits is provided in diverse ways according to the special features of the particular problem and the ingenuity of the designer. It is shown that the use of a nonlinear reactor in series with the thyristor provides advantages in some surge suppression networks, and a design technique is presented for these reactors. Characteristics of a basic damping circuit are presented in the form of non-dimensional design curves, and a relationship is established between the losses of a surge suppression network and the thyristor\\partiali/\\partialtand\\partialV/\\partialtcapabilities."
"The dc to ac and ac to ac series converters have been discussed in earlier publications.[1]-[3] These systems are used with minimum component ratings at a fixed load resistance and a fixed output frequency.[1] The ranges of operation of the load and the frequency can be increased by using saturable reactors and variable capacitors. These systems are analyzed and the preferred operating conditions are discussed. Theoretical results are supplemented with the experimental results."
"The maximum losses occurring at very short wavelengths, due to demagnetization in γFe2O3tape, have been calculated to be rather small (4.5 dB and 8 dB for magnetic and non-magnetic head reproduction, respectively) and they are therefore difficult to measure in the face of the relatively large and indeterminate spacing loss. A method is described for testing a particular tape in free space which avoids the difficulty. Essentially, a determination of the incremental remanent susceptibility of the tape is made. Because the remanence curve is so highly nonlinear, this susceptibility is uniquely associated with the demagnetizing field within the tape. Whereas the demagnetizing fields thus found agree with theory for wavelengths greater than 1 mil, they decrease, contrary to expectations, at the shorter wavelengths."
"Step recovery diodes are characterized by two distinct reverse recovery phases. During the first phase the minority charge is removed at a low reverse voltage, while during the second phase the reverse voltage builds up rapidly, giving rise to the name step recovery. If such a diode is operated cyclically, the minority charge injected by the forward current is preserved and the minority charge is recovered during the first phase of the reverse recovery interval. This situation is the dual of a nonlinear inductor with rectangular hysteresis loop core material operated cyclically in and out of saturation. Thus, we can use the step recovery diode to construct a pulse compression network which essentially is the dual of the nonlinear magnetic pulse compression network. The nonlinear dielectric pulse compression network which uses step recovery diodes can efficiently generate high-power pulses down to pulse widths of a few nanoseconds. In addition the dielectric network provides much higher pulse compression per stage, thus reducing the volume, weight, and number of components."
"Through the use of nonlinear circuit techniques similar to those normally associated with series-connected magnetic amplifiers, it is possible to modify the basic circuits of almost all of the numerous types of magnetically-coupled switching-transistor multivibrators so as to provide for frequency control of these circuits by means of a low-level dc control signal. Using two well-known types of such inverter circuits as examples, this paper describes the basic principles involved in this frequency control technique and discusses the operation of two test circuits. A primary advantage of this frequency control method is its physical simplicity and low cost."
"This paper describes a system which provides a smoothly variable inductor using thyristors to switch the input current and a unique technique to reduce undesirable harmonics. The basic principle is outlined, and the theory of harmonic reduction is developed. Operation of the circuit is described and mathematical analysis is obtained for the system. The circuit parameters are optimized for minimum harmonic contents in the input current over a wide range."
"The results of an analog computer study of flux reversal in thin magnetic films are presented. The computer diagram is given for the simulation of the Landau-Lifshitz equation of motion of the magnetization vector. Solutions of these equations were obtained for pulse fields applied parallel and perpendicular to the easy axis of a film with uniaxial anisotropy. Switching curves are given which show the effect of varying the relaxation frequency λ. The switching time varies by a factor of 3 as λ is varied from 108to 5 × 108Hz. The various definitions of switching time which have been reported in the literature are also compared. Nonlinear resonance curves are presented for λ, values of 108and 1.5 × 108Hz. The curves represent solutions for the angular velocity of the magnetization when a sinusoidal field is applied perpendicular to the easy axis. For applied fields as large as half the anisotropy field the resonant frequency and linewidths are significantly different (20 percent or more) from the small signal values which are useful for determining the anisotropy field HKand the relaxation frequency λ. It is concluded that the analog technique is convenient for studying magnetic switching problems when the problems can be formulated in terms of ordinary differential equations. Other problems suitable for this approach are studies of flux reversal with various waveforms for the excitation field and of the interaction between coupled films or particles."
"A dc to sinusoidal ac inverter is described in which high-frequency pulse-width modulation is used to provide a low-frequency sine-wave output without the need for either a low-frequency power transformer or for low-frequency filter components. The inverter is physically simple and has low weight and small size. From a practical viewpoint the usefulness of this inverter is further enhanced by its self-regulating property. An analysis of this circuit and its output waveform is also given which provides the mathematical basis for the experimentally observed test results. In addition to the proof of the self-regulating property, it is further proven analytically that the amplitudes of the harmonics of the sinusoidal output voltage are very small with respect to the amplitude of the fundamental voltage."
"Measurements of the induced anisotropy in cold drawn niobium-silver Permalloy wires of about 1-mil diameter show that there is a marked radial dependence with the anisotropy increasing rapidly inside of the cold drawn wire. Further, most of the structure in the radial dependence of the anisotropy is removed if the wire is given a mild anneal. Measurements are made by etching away outer layers of material and using a magnetic resonance technique to measure the effective anisotropy within the skin depth below the surface of the remaining wire. The disappearance of the strong radial dependence of the anisotropy on annealing together with the behavior of the anisotropy in the annealed wire under an externally applied tension leads to the conclusion that the radial variation of anisotropy observed in the unannealed wire arises from residual stresses."
"Dynamic energy losses in thin Ni-Fe films during magnetization reversal under sinusoidal magnetic drive fields of 15-Oe peak at frequencies up to 50 kHz have been studied by direct observation of the dynamic M-H loop. Empirically it is found that the energy losses depend neither upon frequency alone nor peak drive fieId alone, but rather upon the slopeSin Oe/s of the drive field at the instant of magnetization reversal. Energy losses are proportional to(S)^{1/2}for smallSand toSfor largeSup toS = 5 \\times 10^{6}Oe/s, the apparatus limit. Simultaneous observation of easy-axis and hard-axis pick-up loop voltage waveforms indicates that magnetization reversal occurs by coherent rotation for largeSand by domain-wall motion for smallS. Observed behavior of the energy losses is shown to be in conformity with the classical descriptions of domain-wall motion and coherent rotation."
"The implementation of a new high-speed read only memory with waffle iron structure, allowing ease of information change and high bit density, is described. Information is stored on a copper plate where an anisotropic Permalloy film (10 000 Å) has been electrodeposited and etched according to the data pattern. This plate is positioned into contact with a polished ferrite slab insuring flux closure paths. The storage cell utilizes the coupling between orthogonal word and sense lines obtainable through the magnetic film overlay to represent a one. At zero locations the coupling is cancelled when etching away the magnetic film from the copper plate. A 512-word by 32-bit memory makes use of eight waffles. The worst case access time including one level of decoding is measured to be 40 ns; the corresponding cycle time is 70 ns."
"Nondestructive readout (NDRO) of ferrite cores with switch times of 4 ns at 80-MHz repetition rates has been attained by permeability sensing of the difference signal between a core at its remanent state (low permeability) and a core at its partially switched (maximum permeability) state. Limited duration interrogate pulses exceeding core thresholds were used. A variety of coercivities, materials, and sizes were investigated. Higher permeability differences were obtained with low-coercivity cores than with high-coercivity cores. Signals of 10 mV were obtained using 21-mil cores 6.7 mils high. Although some cores yield higher difference signals, they are not well suited for memory applications because of their size and drive requirements. Variations in remanent and maximum permeability caused by reset current amplitude were observed. A method for testing and specifying a core for an NDRO application is proposed."
"The all solid-state millivoltage to current converter described meets the exacting dependability, accuracy, and stability demanded of industrial process controls. It has a minimum input span of 2 mV direct current, an output current range of 10-50 mA direct current that is virtually independent of load resistance, and has complete electrical isolation between input and output. It is intended primarily for use with thermocouples. A new design of the input magnetic amplifier stage results in a very low overall noise figure, a high current gain, and a high effective input impedance (as much as 100 kΩ) relative to thermocouple resistance. The converter consists of two separate precision amplifiers in cascade, each stabilized by a large amount of feedback. Zero elevation and cold junction compensation are provided as needed with the aid of a precision Zener diode regulator circuit."
"In a carrier-type control system, necessary operation usually is conducted after demodulating a modulated actuating signal once to a dc signal. This demodulation undesirably retards a signal. Using a general principle, the value of a modulated signal can be determined during a half-cycle of a carrier wave. A reactor with a rectangular magnetization loop can easily integrate a voltage, add or subtract a flux change and a voltage integral, and store this information. In this paper, a circuit is described employing saturable reactors; an error can be measured during a half-cycle, and a large output corresponding to the (proportional plus derivative) value of an error can be obtained."
"The Hall effect and magnetoresistance in solids is discussed in terms of the Lorentz force on current carriers. The advances in thin-film high-mobility semiconductors are related to the increased utilization and developments of Hall-effect devices. The design of such devices depends, in most cases, on the associated magnetic structures. Several examples of applications of Hall-effect and magnetoresistive devices to measurements, communications, and controls are presented. Limitations in performance due to magnetic structures, current noise, and various other galvanomagnetic and thermomagnetic effects are discussed to indicate the range of capabilities of the devices."
"Results are presented from an experimental investigation of large-angle flux reversal of magnetic films. The reported measurements were made with an unconventional instrument whose design features are briefly outlined. Switching characteristics for a selected film are shown; coefficients are compared with results of others in region II at 2° transverse bias. The 6 Oe .ns is a magnitude faster than others although the switching field rise time is an order of magnitude slower. On a 2 dimensional field plot, loci which define thresholds of incoherent rotation are found to have two prominent features : a disperse switching astroid forH_{s}\\lsim H_{k}, and an extension described byH_{s}H_{\\perp}/H_{k} = \\DeltaforH_{s} > H_{k}. The width of region II, the lower threshold for region II, and the independently-measured dispersion field are all approximately 0.1 Oe for the subject film. Thus\\Delta \\approx 2H_{k} \\sin \\alpha_{90}."
"A shmoo plot or failure boundary curve for a coincident current store is a region defining the limits of drive current, both address and bit, within which the system can operate satisfactorily. Because of the nonlinear characteristics of the ferrite core, the sense circuitry, and many aspects of the drive system, the exact mathematical expression of a shmoo curve would be quite involved, and therefore is treated empirically. The effect on storage operation of nonuniformity in device properties, such as squareness and threshold, is explored. Based on distributions of certain device properties which can be related to the output parameters of a core measured under conventionally accepted 3D test conditions, constant shmoo curves are derived."
"The low-field diamagnetism of superconductors has often been used to design quasi-ideal magnetic circuits, especially for traveling wave maser (TWM) magnets. An analogical approach to the calculation of the efficiency of such nonideal cylindrical superconducting shields is presented. In most cases, the problem reduces to a 2-dimensional Laplace equation with given boundary conditions. The logarithmic complex potential\\log (Bx - iBy)has been used to obtain the field homogeneity and disorientation. Partially penetrated shields may be replaced by perfect equivalent ones. The analog measurements on conducting paper permit quick iterations of the solution. Various field component measurements have been done on TWM magnets using bismuth thin film Hall probes and found to be in good agreement with the analog measurements."
"A novel technique for the nondestructive readout (NDRO) of a superconductive memory cell is described. The method is of rather general applicability since it can be utilized for the NDRO of many of the known persistent current cells. A description of the technique in comparison to previous NDRO methods as well as experiments on a memory cell which utilizes this new NDRO technique are discussed. The possibility of using this scheme for random access and associative memories is briefly examined."
"Recent progress in the design of large capacity cryo-electric random-access memories is described. Three-wire cryo-electric memory cells and the hybrid AB system organization which utilizes coincident-current selection are examined from the standpoint of batch fabrication requirements, redundancy, electrical parameters, tolerances, and noise immunity. The advances which have been made with experimental subsystems are described in relation to previous work and are shown to place cryoelectrics as a strong contender in the achievement of a system whose capacity is 108bits or larger."
"The output voltages from various fluxgate probe types are found to have the same general form, and an analytic model has been developed with which the output may be calculated. In the saturation region where the output pulse is developed, the differential permeability can be closely approximated by an exponential,dB/dH = k_{1}H^{K_{2}}, where k1and k2are on the order of 100 and -2.0, respectively, for cores of Supermalloy or Permalloy 80. Using this model, the effect of the nature of the excitation function on output pulse amplitude and width and the effect of the squareness of the core characteristic can be clearly demonstrated, and good agreement with experimental results has been obtained."
"The process leading to the quench of superconductivity in a nonideal type II superconducting wire carrying an audio-frequency alternating transport current in a normally applied static magnetic field was studied. The quench of superconductivity was found to initiate from particular points of 10-mil diameter Nb25 percent Zr wire in repeated tests. In the course of the experimentation a nucleation site was closely bracketed by potential probes and the voltage response of this segment at currents less than the quench current was studied. Utilizing a limited current density model to describe the ac conduction process, the previous voltage response measurements were used to calculate values for the model parameter Jc. The model was extended to include heating effects and a regenerative process that leads to a quench of superconductivity. Quench current predictions based on voltage measurements prior to the quench at a single frequency agree favorably with measured quench currents over a relatively wide frequency range."
"A class of power amplifiers exists that uses a combination of an ac source and a nonlinear reactance as the basis for amplification. Included in this class are the varactor parametric amplifiers, the so-called dielectric amplifiers, and the magnetic amplifiers. The 3-frequency parametric amplifier is often compared to the maser amplifier since both operate on the 3-frequency principle and both are used for the same application, i.e., low noise front end in microwave receivers. From a circuit point of view, however, they are quite different. The paper develops a theory of a class of amplifiers termed nonlinear reactance amplifiers, and establishes gain-bandwidth limitations by means of Bode's integral constraints and Mason's unilateral gain quantityU."
"Failure of an instrument in a plant not only leads to unwanted shutdown of the plant, but also adversely influences plant safety and economy. By the redundancy and decision by majority system which employs a magnetic deviation detector and averaging unit, the reliability of plant instrumentation can be considerably improved. A description is given of its components, i.e., the magnetic deviation detector, magnetic operational applifier, magnetic ON-OFF switch in circuit,2f-type magnetic amplifier for low-level signals, and magnetic multiplier-and-divider. The principles are first explained and then the results of experiments with the system are presented. It has been found that the system gives very satisfactory results."
"The behavior of an analog memory element using a single toroidal magnetic core with rectangular hysteresis loop is presented. In this element, flux levels stored in the core as analog information can be nondestructively and continuously read out. With the application of a slight, amplitude-modulated, radio frequency (RF) field, the modulation frequency component of the induced voltage waveform is detected as an analog output signal. The principle of operation requires only one core per memory element, so that problems of mismatching of two cores, which appear in a second-harmonic type element, are completely eliminated. Experimental results show that this is suitable as an analog memory element, and that the eddy-current effect enhances the output signals."
"Calculations are made on a model of a ferromagnetic film in which interactions between regions enter as a perturbation of the configuration without interactions. Nine regions are assumed with a uniform dispersion of uniaxial anisotropy axes through 0.16 radians and with no magnitude dispersion. The energy of interaction between any two regions is taken to be-NM_{1} \\cdot M_{2}and values of the relative interaction field,h_{i} = 2NM/H_{k}, which are studied, are 0.0, 0.05, 0.1, and 0.3. Calculations are made corresponding to torque and magnetoresistance measurements. The field variation is a rotation in the film plane with constant magnitude. Values chosen forh = H/H_{k}range from 0.1 through 1.1. The representation of magnetoresistance values as certesian coordinates is shown to be very revealing of the effects of interactions. In the presence of interactions it is found that irreversible, rotational switching of the local magnetization is through smaller angles than with no interactions; this causes the appearance of locked regions."
"A technique was devised to obtain a quantitative measure of some of the internal magnetostatic fields in a thin Ni-Fe film which are present when the film is broken up into strip domains whose average angular orientations are parallel to the average easy axis. The process involved the experimental-numerical evaluation of the average angle which the magnetization makes with the easy direction as a function of a transverse dc bias field. These angles were found for all bias field values from zero to saturation. It was found that one of the internal fields, a demagnetizing type field brought about by wall and ripple boundary pinning, was very instrumental in effecting an explanation of the experimentally observed bias susceptibility measurements."
"The thermal cycle-time and read bandwidth are calculated for a magnetic film memory which is written by heating from focussed light and read by the same beam at reduced power. The heat flow model approximates the memory bit as a planar disc source and the cycle timeTis determined by the condition that, for repetitive writing, the ratio of transient to dc temperature must be >1. Then it is found that the bit radiusamust be< \\sqrt{kT}= thermal diffusion length in timeT(k= thermal diffussivity of substrate); forT < 1\\mus and an Ag substrate this givesa \\sim 5 \\mu. For a magneto-optical reflection coefficientk \\sim 10^{-3}the shot-noise limited bandwidth is then found to be ∼100 MHz for a temperature rise of 10 degrees in the memory bit. Surface noise due to imperfections will limit the bandwidth to less than the shot-noise limit unless some form of signal processing can be used to extract the magnetic information. For incident light polarized at, say, 45° to the plane of incidence, phase modulation of one of the components will generate a magneto-optical signal with a phase of 0 or π relative to the modulation, depending on the magnetic state of the memory bit. Additional topics which are considered include a review of magneto-optical enhancement using multilayer dielectric films, a discussion of possible memory materials, and a proposal for a content-addressed memory which is interrogated magneto-optically."
"Films of EuO have been vacuum deposited by three techniques: electron beam heating of bulk EuO, simultaneous deposition of Eu and Eu2O3, and evaporation of Eu in a partial pressure of oxygen. X-ray measurements show the structure of these films to be essentially the same as bulk EuO. The Faraday rotation of EuO films was measured at 5° K for wavelengths between 0.5μ and 1.2μ. The largest specific Faraday rotation occurs at a wavelength of 0.66μ and is 5 × 105degrees per cm, which is one of the highest values yet reported for any material. From magneto-optical measurements and force balance measurements, various magnetic properties of these films have been determined and compared with bulk EuO. Magnetic moment, susceptibility, and squareness of EuO films do not differ greatly from bulk. The coercive force, however, is several times bulk value, and appears to be related to stress in the films."
"AnSband rectangular waveguide digital phase shifter with TEM inputs which combines the electrical advantages of waveguide design with the compactness of a strip transmission line structure is described. A 4-bit, nonreciprocalSband model is presented which combines the electronic drivers and the microwave structure in a 1.8 inch by 1.4 inch cross section designed specifically for half-wavelength stacking in an antenna array. Several new techniques of antisymmetric dielectric loading are reviewed which convert microwave energy from a TEM mode in strip line transmission to a TE type mode propagating in a dielectrically loaded rectangular waveguide. The advantages of greatly reduced phase shifter cross section derived using these techniques are emphasized."
"The 256-word, 200-bit NDRO memory utilizes magnetic films deposited in arrays of discrete spots on thin glass substrates. Sandwiching of conductors between two substrates provides partial coupling to film pairs. The magnetic films exhibit both uniaxial and biaxial anisotropy and are interrogated by word fields of less than Hkamplitude. Word currents of 15-ns duration and 5-ns rise time produce sense signals in excess of 1 mV with a 7- to 10-ns duration. A single compact assembly houses the stack and its associated circuitry. Circuits are packaged employing hybrid techniques where electroless plating produces resistors from a nickel-phosphide solution onto copper-clad glass-epoxy laminates."
"The possible reductions in the size and weight of energy storage systems through the use of superconducting coils in place of capacitors indicate that superconducting coils offer significant potential for use in pulsed operations. Two systems utilizing superconducting coils have been built and successfully tested. The first system made use of an 8.35-mH coil which was charged to a maximum current of 1350 amperes and discharged into a 2.5-ohm resistive load. This system was then repetitively pulsed at a 10- second rate for a series of ten 3200-joule pulses. The second system made use of a 1.92-mH coil. This system was charged to a maximum current of 8000 amperes in three seconds and discharged into a 0.5-ohm resistive load. Both coils were wound with a copper stabilized Nb Zr conductor."
"Results of an investigation of flexible keepers are reported. The parameters studied include the composition, preparation, and particle size of the ferrite and the thickness and binder content of the sheet. The optimization of these parameters improved the performance of the keeper by 10 percent. The use of the improved keeper in thin film memory arrays results in reducing the increase of bit drive current due to worst case effects by a substantial amount."
"A study has been made of the device applications of multilayer films of Permalloy-SiO-Permalloy. Of particular interest is the application to film memory, where domain wall creep is an important factor. A variety of samples of aT_{p}/T_{d}/T_{p}configuration was investigated. Under the conditions of this study, optimum results were obtained with a structure employing two 300 Å nonmagnetostrictive films separated by 1C kÅ of SiO. For this geometry, both writing and disturb characteristics are significantly improved relative to a conventional 600 Å film. An absence of wall creep is found in this structure, accounting for the improved disturb characteristics. Unexpected interactions are also found which influence the wall motion switching characteristics, but have no significant influence on memory characteristics."
"All-magnetic logic is known for its very high reliability, but this logic has serious drawbacks: wiring cost, high power dissipation, etc. The use of very thin laminated magnetic sheets and an integrated fabrication process solves all these problems. Very low cost, power, size, and weight and a high reliability can be obtained by this technique. An experimental integrated 2-bit shift register has been fabricated."
"A method is described for measuring the linewidth of single crystal ferrite spheres, based on monitoring the reflected wave in a short-circuited transmission line. The ferrite sample is at the short circuit, or a half wavelength from it. An equation is given for the normalized equivalent resistance of a ferrite sphere at resonance, and a comparison made between theory and experiment. AtCband, resonance curves of undercoupled spheres are relatively free of distortion. However, at frequencies of 2 GHz and lower, resonance curves are often distorted. Moreover, it is frequently possible to obtain a discrete number of different resonant curves at a given frequency. Data are given on errors due to nonideal microwave components. A method of displaying a resonance curve on an oscilloscope, using swept fields, is described."
"The stored flux level in a 50 percent Ni-Fe tape core is read nondestructively to provide an analog memory. The stored flux level is set by means of a low-field (H < 2H_{c}) pulse. This flux level can be read out nondestructively by applying a short high-field pulse (H > 4H_{c}) which produces a peak rate of change of flux proportional to the stored flux level relative to saturation remanence. A subcoercive bias field applied to the core restores it to the original low-field flux state. Experimental data and the model leading to the conception of the memory are presented; and the circuit details of a typical core analog memory are described."
"Abnormal wall motion in Permalloy films was observed by Kerr magneto-optic apparatus under hard-axis pulse drive with nanosecond rise time. Although this phenomenon is like creeping, the observed domain tip and sidewise motion is not monotonous, but looks like worm motion. Each domain expands and shrinks quasi-periodically, and the net magnetization along the easy direction is never constant. This phenomenon depends closely on the field strength and pulse width as well as the rise time of the drive pulse. The thickness range of the films observed was from 330 to 3500 Å, and for the films of thicknesses below 860 Å, worm motion never occurred. This suggests that the Bloch wall configuration is essential for such motion, and this was also verified by Bitter patterns. Worm motion was detected not only by Kerr magneto-optic apparatus, but also as a change of amplitude of transverse induced voltage measured with a strip line and sampling oscilloscope system. A theoretical velocity of walls during worm motion was estimated assuming a simple model for Bloch walls and compared with experimental results. The so-called creeping in the Bloch wall thickness region was found to be closely related to the worm motion of domain walls."
"Some results pertinent to the monolithic magnetic double-balanced modulator are presented and discussed. The patterns taken experimentally for a working sample are compared with the theoretical as predicted by the formula for conversion gain. The advantages of monolithic construction are outlined."
"The application of inductively coupled magnetic films to memory organization is described. Experimental work resulted in bilateral flux transfer between magnetic film elements of equal size. The influence of the device and coupling loop parameters, as well as the rise time of the drive pulse, on the maximum number of identical elements for a generalized model is shown. The parts used experimentally to demonstrate bilateral flux transfer were chain-store elements electrolessly plated with 20 000 Å of nickel-iron film. Continual flux transfer back and forth on a tight flat coupling loop was obtained. Structures required to effectively use inductively coupled magnetic films in memory organizations were investigated. Application of inductively coupled magnetic films implies the possibilities of large memories, nondestructive readout memories, or 3D-like organization for magnetic film device memories."
"Previously proposed analog memory devices of the second harmonic type have two defects: that resetting the memory cores by ac demagnetization requires considerable time, and that the input-output characteristic of the memory device is nonlinear. This paper discusses a device in which these defects are overcome. Two cores are used in which the zero memory state corresponds to saturation magnetization states of the cores. Consequently, quick reset to the zero state is possible. The output voltage has both fundamental and second harmonic components of the ac bias used for readout. Linearity is improved by negative feedback. The rectified and filtered output of the 2-core circuit is fed back and compared with the memory write-in signal. The error signal is used to set the memory."
"Several techniques for achieving nonreciprocity in YIG filters employing stripline or miniature coaxial line construction are presented. Nonreciprocal filters can be designed with either single-ended or double-ended nonreciprocity. In either case, the circuit element possesses isolator and circulator properties as well as that of a ferrimagnetic filter. Experimental results have indicated that nonreciprocity greater than 10 dB over octave bandwidths is possible with passband characteristics similar to those of conventional YIG filters. The insertion loss may be somewhat higher than the latter, depending on the technique of nonreciprocity utilized. Nonreciprocal YIG filters are useful with TWT microwave receiver systems as preselectors and post-selectors and obviate the need for isolators. These filters are also useful as tunable microwave circulators in conjunction with tunnel diode amplifiers and parametric amplifiers. An individual filter may be used as a diplexer, while several filters will provide multiplexer operation."
"The domain wall motion phenomenon in some Permalloy wires, as reviewed in a companion paper, offers the possibility of magnetically realizing useful functional packages. Several low-current devices of lengths below 300 bits were developed which exploit this phenomenon. This paper describes a parallel-to-serial converter and discusses the technology associated with fabricating this and other low-current functional devices. The converter is capable of accepting 64 bits of parallel data in 10 μs and delivering it sequentially upon command at the rate of up to 50 kbits/s."
"The intrinsic coercive force of single crystals of those rare earth iron garnets having magnetization compensation temperatures greater than 77°K has been measured as a function of temperature and orientation with particular emphasis given to the temperature range near the magnetization compensation temperature. A single peak in the intrinsic coercive force was observed at the magnetization compensation temperature for almost all of the samples and for all principal orientations. Typically, the peak value of the coercive force was 50 Oe independent of material and orientation with a temperature difference between half-maximum points of less than 3°K. A single-domain model is proposed which concludes that the iron sublattice is primarily responsible for the coercive force near the magnetization compensation temperature and that complete magnetization compensation cannot occur due to the susceptibility of the rare earth sublattice. This leads to a finite coercive force at the magnetization compensation temperature."
"Digital magnetic information is recorded on a rotating disc thin film by a conventional tape recorder head. The information is read out using the longitudinal magnetic Kerr effect, and a 1.5- MHz bandwidth electronic system. The use of spatial filtering and a differential scheme yields a ratio of peak-to-peak signal to rms noise of 32 dB, which is very close to the shot noise limited case."
"Capacitance between intersecting word and bit lines of a memory array causes a special type of line-to-line interaction. Signal waveforms may be seriously distorted if a large number of common polarity signals occur simultaneously and the word and bit line delay times are comparable to the width of the signal. A 2- dimensional linear array model with distributed parameters was used, and a mathematical process for the determination of the wave coefficients according to the partial differential equation of the array and its boundary conditions is described. Typical cases were computed, interpreted, and compared to simple approximations which are useful as rules of thumb for the memory designer."
"A time-of-day clock system employing digital magnetic logic is described. The system design is directed toward the problem of minimizing the number of drivers commonly associated with large-scale magnetic logic systems. The clock system derives its basic count rate from a time-base generator which is realized through truncation of a maximal length linear pseudorandom sequence generated by a feedback shift register. The basic count rate is accumulated in a set of accumulators having semibidirectional properties derived from prime control logic to minimize the number of driver sections required. The design of a clock system based on a 0.01-hour time base derived from the 60-Hz power line frequency and accumulator capacity sufficient for 365 days is given."
"A number of partially populated NDRO film arrays employing 2-layer films were constructed and tested to demonstrate that high-performance low-power NDRO film memories can be made with read and write requirements which are compatible with integrated circuits. Test arrays were made in which two or four turns of fine wire were used for word lines spaced on 0.010-inch centers. The read word current for the arrays with 2-turn word lines was nominally 75 mA and the write word current was 180 mA. Digit current for all arrays was approximately 35 mA. The read word current for the array with 4-turn word lines was nominally 30 mA and the write word current was 85 mA."
"The magnetoresistance effect is used as an experimental tool in the investigation of the mechanism of magnetic coupling in multilayer films with intermediate laminations of electric insulating materials. The analysis of the shape of the hysteresis loops of the magnetoresistance can provide information about the inhomogeneous magnetization of such films. The films consisted of a soft layer of NiFe and a hard layer of Co, separated by approximately 1000 Å of SiO. Shifted hysteresis loops, indicating the presence of a unidirectional anisotropy, were observed when the driving field had a small amplitude. However, with increasing drive amplitude these loops became regular, and the existence of a field dependent uniaxial anisotropy was demonstrated. Both kinds of anisotropies are discussed in terms of stray field effects introduced by the initially polarized hard layer. With films whose ferromagnetic layers have nearly perpendicular easy axes, one obtains asymmetric magnetoresistance loops for some orientations of the driving field. These loops were attributed to the inhomogeneous distribution of the magnetization vectors within the laminations of the coupled films. This new method of investigation of the magnetic behavior of coupled films seems to be preferable to other methods when the ferromagnetic layers of the films are very thin."
"A method for computing the equilibrium magnetization and internal field distributions for magnetic thin films with non-planar surfaces is presented. The iterative calculation is based on a 3-dimensional model in which the surface topology of the film is assumed to be periodic along one of the film-plane coordinates and uniform along the other. Each period of the film structure is subdivided into regions in which the magnetization and internal field are assumed to be uniform. The magnitude of the magnetization is taken as M0throughout the film. A procedure is then established for computing the equilibrium direction of the magnetization and the magnitude and direction of the internal field within these regions. The results of computer calculations for several simple configurations are presented."
"A model is presented for channeled domain tip propagation, which is used for the construction of magnetic thin film memory and logic devices. The technique, called DTPL, utilizes the dependence of the direction of tip propagation upon the magnitude and direction of the applied field and the magnetostatic interaction between channeled domain tips brought into proximity of one another. In a DTPL device domain tip propagation channels are, in general, oriented at various angles with respect to the easy axis. With the model for DTPL, the threshold for tip propagation can be calculated as a function of channel width and orientation and the direction of the applied drive field."
"A 20-bit sequential character recognizer utilizing the domain wall wire technology discussed in a companion paper is described. The recognizer is e specially well-suited for use in portable battery operated systems because no standby power is dissipated and the operating voltage is only 2 volts. During code transmission the energy required per bit is approximately 1 μJ. The device is coded by punching an appropriate set of holes in a plastic strip. Still, it can be fully tested before coding. This allows mass production of the device with individual field coding made highly practical."
"A new type of anisotropic Permalloy wire was disclosed recently[1] within which reverse magnetized domains can be created and propagated by controlled fields. It offers a flexible yet simple technology that is especially suitable for realizing frequently-used functional logic packages. The domain wall propagation phenomenon of such wires is reviewed in this paper and attractive device applications outlined. Some of these applications are discussed in detail in companion papers.[2],[3] An attempt is made to characterize this type wire according to its logic capabilities and to assess the merits of the associated technology."
"A microwave pulse compression filter has been obtained atS-band and room temperature by using the dispersive characteristics of propagating magnetostatic spin waves in single crystal rods of yttrium iron garnet (YIG). The maximum pulse compression ratio was 60 but higher values should be possible with faster sweep rates and more precise sweep matching than could be obtained with the equipment employed. The maximum input pulse width that could be effectively used was about 2 μs which seems to be a natural limit of the material due to increased attenuation for longer time delays. The overall insertion loss that can be obtained using magnetostatic waves is less than that using the magnetoelastic mode of propagation."
"A low-pass filter with electrically controllable cut-off frequency using Permalloy films near resonance has been investigated both analytically and experimentally. In a Permalloy film loaded transmission line, the wave propagation constant is strongly affected by the film's permeability. For a fixed bias field HM, the attenuation constant α and the phase constant β are large and nonlinear at the resonance frequency f0, but for the frequency band far belowf_{0}, \\betais much larger than α and is almost linear with respect to frequency. Hence the impedance Z0, proportional to β/ω is constant for the previous frequency band. In a film loaded transmission line section terminated by Z0, the insertion loss is very small in the passband and large near f0, the cut-off frequency. The cut-off frequency f0can be varied by varying the applied field HM. Attenuation in the stop band is provided by many sections in tandem biased at fields higher than HMor biased by a tapered field. Such a low-pass filter has been built and tested successfully over a frequency range from 500 MHz/s to 2.8 GHz/s. The experimental data agree very well with the analytical result."
"A description is given of a novel multisection bandpass filter. It is constructed in ferrite loaded evanescent waveguide and can be tuned over a moderate bandwidth by a single knob control of the dc magnetic field applied to the ferrite. The basis of this type of filter is a new principle which states that full transmission of the incident energy through a finite length of waveguide below its cut-off frequency can be effected by using a terminating impedance that is the conjugate of the characteristic impedance of the evanescent waveguide. Briefly, the filter consists of a length of rectangular waveguide operated in the evanescent TE10mode. A thin slab of ferrite lies along both side walls and in each filter section a capacitive screw is placed for tuning the filter to resonance. The magnetic field on the ferrite controls the cut-off frequency and thereby the resonant frequency of the filter. Design equations are derived and results on a 3-section filter are included."
"The use of fast-rising short-duration pulses in the design of a 1K - 144 bit NDRO memory with permeability sensing leads to high-frequency considerations not normally encountered in ferrite core memories. In particular, the high-frequency character of the device must be recognized to properly evaluate cycle time capabilities and array transmission. The design of this memory centers around a 2-core-per-bit word-organized array. The array was optimized with the aid of a computer analysis that considered the device, array geometry, and line termination as variables. The performance of this system has been tested by a cross-section model incorporating full length, fully populated word and digit lines."
"A system is described for a low-cost access card system which exhibits a high resistance to conventional decoding and inspection techniques. The system described utilizes the uniaxial anisotropic characteristics of thin magnetic films deposited onto a code card and then encapsulated. Methods of depositing the magnetic materials are discussed and card fabricating and coding techniques are described. Mathematical equations are given for the binary one and zero output voltages from the sensor as a function of the system parameters. Experimental data are given for several magnetic samples. Comparisons are made between the calculated and experimental results. Four-pole transducer configurations for maximum prevention of code simulation are described."
"Magnetic wires possessing highly re-entrant hysteresis loops can be utilized as general purpose memory elements. Information is stored by locating a reversal of magnetization in either of two positions along a length of wire corresponding to the memory region. There are a number of different memory configurations possible. Several of these have been built and found to operate with large margins. The element is relatively slow, with practical cycle times greater than 10 μs, but it lends itself to inexpensive construction techniques. The high ratios attainable between nucleation and wall motion threshold fields are reflected in similarly high drive current margins and, consequently, hold promise of a high yield in manufacture and thereby low cost. The effective memory speed can be increased by the use of fast nondestructive readout. A unique feature of the element is that time coincidence of drive pulses is unnecessary."
"The chemical vapor deposition of single crystal metal oxides has recently been extended to the growth of certain epitaxial garnets, in particular YIG on YAG and GdIG on YAG. The light green, transparent films are\\sim3\\muthick and are limited in area only by the area of the available YAG seeds. On (100) seeds, the YIG deposits display tiny fingerprint-type magnetic domains as revealed by Bitter patterns and by the Faraday magneto-optic effect; this is in contrast to manganese ferrite films of similar thicknesses which have very large domains in which the magnetic vectors assume the (110) secondary easy axis in the plane of the film. The growth method involved the high temperature hydrolysisoxidation of the mixed vapors of the pertinent metal halides at the seed surface. The necessary conditions for single crystal growth are compared to those for other metal oxides, in particular the ferrites. The present state of characterization of the films with respect to composition, quality, and magnetic properties is presented."
"The commutatorless motor (CLM) is a type of a dc motor whose commutator is replaced by the thyristor power converter. The thyristors are switched by the signals from a position sensor connected to the rotating shaft of the synchronous motor. Therefore, the CLM never loses synchronism and has the good speed characteristics of a dc motor. The current type CLM, having a current smoothing reactor, was studied and found to have better characteristics than the voltage type. In this paper two kinds of the current type CLMs are described; one is the dc CLM using an inverter, the other the ac CLM using a cycloconverter."
"This paper is concerned with the time variation of the RF magnetization of a ferrite biased to resonance and subject to a first-order spin wave instability. Two methods of a fully experimental measurement of the spin wave relaxation rates are derived from the theoretical results. Experiments are given which were performed in a nonresonant device in order to avoid spurious transient signals. The experimental results of the two methods are shown to be in very good agreement. These results, together with the measurement of the critical field, allow experimental determination of the spin wave-uniform mode coupling constant. In addition, some results of a computer analysis of the entire process are presented and compared to experimental results."
"An experiment was performed whereby domain walls were forced to bulge under the influence of an applied easy-axis fieldH. The region where the domain wall is bent appears to be approximately circular. To relate the radius of such a curved domain wall to theory, a model was chosen that takes into account magnetostatic, anisotropy, and exchange energy. The assumption was made that anisotropy and exchange energy, as well as the magnetostatic contribution due to the local magnetization distribution of a domain wall, may be summarized in a wall energy term. The energy of the entire system has been calculated under the constraint that the domain wall should be circular and that it is inscribed tangentially into a triangle. Minimizing the total energy with respect to the radius of curvatureA, the result can be expressed approximately byA \\propto (H - H_{c})^{-1}where Hcis the coercive force. This result fits the model of a membrane under pressure."
"Theoretical values of the magnetic field intensity outside a permanent magnet usually agree with experiment only at distance greater than the length of the magnet. This theoretical formula is modified to fit experimental results at shorter distances as well so that it can serve as a convenient analytical approximation for practical problems involving cylindrical bar magnets. Measurements are reported for the field of five Alnico V magnets whose diameters are roughly 1/8,3/16,1/4,1/2, and 1 inch, and whose lengths range from 4 to 6 inches. For all these, the modified formula describes the axial field in a distance range of 9 to 81 mm from the nearest face of the magnet to within a few percent from the measured values."
"The propagation of a planar shock wave in a lossless nonlinear magnetic medium is treated with certain idealizations. Considering a monotonically increasing pulse input, a simple formulation is given for the calculation of shock velocities and shock discontinuities. Field profiles are obtained with procedures very similar to those of linear media with fixed discontinuity surfaces. The implications of the broad assumptions used are briefly discussed."
"A magnetic-film memory accessed by combined photon and electron beams is proposed. The electron beam is used to heat a selected bit, which results in lowering the switching threshold so that information can be written selectively into that bit by means of an external magnetic field. Reading is accomplished by simultaneously illuminating a bit with an electron and a photon beam. Then a thermally modulated magnetic-optical signal is generated by intensity modulation of the electron beam. This arrangement is advantageous since a high-resolution photon beam and photon deflector are not required. The frequency response for thermally modulating a 1-μm bit is calculated to be ∼500 MHz; the necessary temperature dependence of the magneto-optical coefficient and the coercive force can be obtained by using composite films made from layers having different Curie points. Various magneto-optical configurations are readily devised which yield the value of a bit (one or zero) in terms of the phase (0 or π) between the magneto-optical signal and the electron-beam intensity modulation. The shot noise limited signal-to-noise ratio (SNR) is determined by heating of a bit from the photon beam. It is calculated that for a low-loss magnetooptical material such as EuO a 1-μm bit can be read in 1 μs when illuminated with a 1000-μm photon beam. The base-line temperature rise due to heating from the photon beam can be kept small by using narrow pulses of light (width\\sim10^{-11}second), as, for example, from a mode-locked laser."
"The addition of a polarization azimuth vibrator, such as a Faraday cell, to a conventional Kerr apparatus yields a dynamic detector with a high SNR capability. The method described here has been utilized in the past as a null detector to observe Kerr rotation. It can be used equally well for analog readout of the magnetic state of the film element. The improved Kerr apparatus is well-suited to a common-mode noise rejection configuration. The common-mode configuration is usable both as a measuring instrument and as a high-speed analog readout system. Dynamic single- and double-ended Kerr apparatus are discussed and typical photodetector output waveforms are shown."
"A magneto-optic memory element which was first proposed by Chang et al. has been investigated. The element is based upon the properties of ferrimagnetic materials with a compensation temperature. It is a single crystal wafer of gadolinium iron garnet. The importance of domain walls in limiting the minimum size of a bit was recognized. This limitation was removed by scribing the wafer into square bits approximately 25 microns on a side. The reading operation was improved by utilizing a beam splitting procedure similar to one suggested by Miyata and Lentz. The optimum thickness of the memory element and the optimum wavelength for memory operation were determined. Thermal considerations were investigated. The laser power required for the writing operation and limits for the writing speed set by thermal factors were determined. Experimental results were in good agreement with these theoretical predictions."
"Switching of a magnetic film can be induced by a homogeneous easy-axis field Hebelow switching threshold and a large, locally applied hard-axis field Hh. If Hhis a step function in time, the magnetization inside the region of the hard-axis field rotates with negligible delay toward the hard axis while the region outside tries to establish a state of curled magnetization. As soon as the magnetization in this region rotates away from the easy axis, however, the easy-axis field Heexerts an additional torque which pushes the magnetization further toward the hard axis. The region of partial rotation, therefore, tends to become wider. By an indirect probing method, it has been observed that a wide wavefront, traveling at high speed, results. The speed at the center of this wavefront was typically 107cm/s. In addition, the leading edge of this wavefront appeared to propagate more than five times as fast. The length travelled exceeded 250 mils. This experiment strongly suggests that the switching occurs by a special type of noncoherent rotation. A static model has been set up in an attempt to explain this effect theoretically."
"The magnetization pattern recorded in high coercive force media, such as magnetic tapes or discs, is measured with the vibrating head magnetometer (VHM) by vibrating a recording head parallel to the surface of the medium and along the track length. The VHM can be used with small, irregular-shaped samples. It can be used to measure precisely the shape of recorded magnetic transitions. Application of the VHM to the precise location of dropouts on prerecorded samples and to the alignment of a recording head with respect to a prerecorded track is described. Measurements have been made with the VHM of the half peak width and relative peak signal of isolated transitions in Co alloy films. The half peak width was found to be proportional to(t/H_{c})^{0.5}."
"In magnetic recording, the field configuration of the writing head is of major importance, but it is difficult to measure its actual strength. This paper describes a method of determining both the field geometry of a head and the field strength by using tapes of various coating thicknesses. By differentiating the magnetic flux with respect to the thickness, remanence curves are obtained. These curves may be compared to the remanence which was measured statically. This way, the oersteds of the head field can be determined in a much closer vicinity to the head gap than by previously described methods."
"To date there have been no direct measurements of the switching speed of an individual crossed-film cryotron (CFC) due to the extremely low gate resistance of the device in its normal state. A method which is, in principle, similar to conventional sampling techniques is used to determine the CFC switching speed with a 2-ns time resolution and a gate resistance sensitivity of 0.1 μΩ. CFC switching speeds are determined as a function of control current overdrive and gate current. In this way, the gain-bandwidth limitations of the device are experimentally determined. These data can be used to determine the optimum speeds of CFC logic circuits."
"Planar processing techniques for producing coupled film storage devices are presented. The discussion centers around a process sequence for a coupled easy-axis structure built on a metal substrate, largely by vacuum deposition techniques. The process results in packing density of about 8000 bits/in2. Included is a test of one such element displaying useful memory device characteristics under conditions of a worst case pulse test program."
"A number of different methods of measuring the anisotropy field HKof magnetic films were investigated for application to the automation of low-frequency measurements. These methods included torque, the large signal susceptibility method recommended by the IEEE,[5] the small signal susceptibility, and a new method using the second harmonic component of the magnetization signal. The agreement between the IEEE method and the second harmonic method was found to be good. Both these methods also gave good agreement with values obtained for torque measurements."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"The interacting array of fine magnetic particles has been studied with a hysteretic magnetic dipole model which simulates a dilute well-dispersed array of fine particles. In any state each dipole element is either parallel or antiparallel to the array axis. In the model the elements reverse according to vulnerability. The cubic array of assigned elements is extended in the calculations by adding hypothetical identical arrays to the original. This method of periodic extension eliminates the coherent demagnetizing field of finite aspect ratio. Calculations made using this model show that columnar breakdown is present to a large extent. This breakdown can be partially quenched by assigning a distribution of critical fields with large spread to the array elements. The average interaction field is observed to be a linear function of the magnetization in agreement with theory. The deviation of the interaction field is a function of the array magnetization in disagreement with the constant value predicted by the theory. The disagreement is attributed to the columnar breakdown. Support for this proposition is given by the observation that partial quenching of columnar breakdown yields a constant deviation over a range of magnetization up to approximately ±25 percent of saturation. The coercivity of the interacting array is greater than the value obtained in the absence of interaction. The increase in coercivity is attributed to the linear dependence of the interaction field expectation on magnetization. Two tests of this hypothesis yield agreement. First, when the expectation is nullified by an oppositely directed coherent demagnetizing field, the coercivity decreases to almost its noninteracting value. Second, the predicted increasing functional dependence of coercivity on saturation magnetization is observed both in these arrays and in independent experiments. The dependence of the deviation of the interaction field on the state of magnetization shows that even the modified Preisach functionI for these arrays is not stable over the entire range of magnetization. This conclusion is further justified by the observed distribution function that appears to grow from one state to another rather than simply shifting and maintaining its shape."
"The forthcomingis sues of the Transactions on Magnetics will be the responsibility of the new Publications Chairman and Editor in Chief, Dr. Emerson W. Pugh of the IBM Research Center. Dr. Pugh is well qualified to assume this position having been a frequent contributor to the literature on magnetism. He has chose Dr. Hsu Chang, also of IBM, to work as a Reviews Editor with him. Professor E.J. Friedlaender, our present Reviews Editor,w ill continue in that post to to help with an orderly transfer of responsibility. Mr. E.J. Alexander will also continue as Newsletter Editor. Photographs and biographies of the Editorial Staff are provided."
"This bibliography (1963-1967) lists 1300 articles and 170 patents, supplementing an earlier one (-1963) which contains 735 articles and 60 patents."
"A cross-sectional model is designed to prove the feasibility of a 147-kbit thin magnetic film memory in the eddy current braked nondestructive readout (NDRO) mode. With the full word, digit, and sense line lengths, the model is operated with drive currents smaller than 400 mA. The write and the nondestructive read word pulses are different in amplitude and duration, but fit the requirements of a high-speed selection matrix. Including the matrix, a nondestructive read cycle time of 20 ns is achieved, yielding sense signals in the order of 1 mV. Word and digit noise compensation schemes are investigated at large duty factors. Bipolar digit pulses are used."
"The elasto-optic constants of single-crystal silicon were determined at 3.39μ, through measurement of the diffraction grating and transduction efficiency of an ultrasonic traveling-wave modulation device operating at 30 MHz. The values of elasto-optic constants found wereP_{11} = 0.081, P_{12} = 0.010, P_{44} = 0.075."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of this periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"The purpose of this paper is to treat systematically the properties of gas lasers with respect to internal modulation, mode locking, perturbation of modes due to combination tones, and noise due to spontaneous emission. The response of gas lasers to the resonator loss modulation and the small external signal injection has been investigated on the basis of Lamb's optical maser theory. The analysis on the low-frequency loss modulation indicates that each oscillating mode in a gas laser has its proper damping constant or cutoff frequency for both the perturbations. Although this damping constant is determined in the vicinity of threshold by twice the difference between the first-order term of the negative conductivity due to laser action and the resonator loss conductivity, it converges to that determined by the resonator loss conductivity with the increase of oscillation intensity. The analysis on the small external signal injection gives the criteria of mode locking and clarifies the complex perturbation of oscillating modes due to it. In the case of forced locking where the resonator loss is modulated at a frequency nearly equal to the axial mode interval, the sideband components of each mode falling near its neighboring modes are equivalent to externally injected signals. Accordingly, the required modulation voltage across the KDP intracavity modulator for forced locking can be estimated from the foregoing locking criteria for the small external signal injection. It is also explained that the combination tones due to the nonlinearity of the laser medium, which are equivalent to externally injected signals, produce the complex frequency spectra around the oscillating modes, which result in a principal noise of unlocked gas lasers, and give rise to self locking in a certain condition. Besides, the perturbation by spontaneous emission also corresponds to the small external signal injection. The noise due to spontaneous emission is, therefore, easily calculated using the analytical results on the small external signal injection. The representation of the macroscopic polarization of laser medium developed into power series is shown to be inappropriate to a practical He-Ne gas laser with medium output power, and the analysis is extended to the more general case, where the polarization is represented by a monotonically saturating function."
"An increase in the absorption cross section responsible for optical pumping of a ruby laser occurs as a result of γ-irradiation. As single crystal ruby is irradiated with Co60γ-rays, the usual absorption bands which exist between 200 and 550 mμ change from four distinct bands to one continuous absorption band. Similar work on sapphire, the host crystal for ruby, indicates that the majority of this increased absorption is experienced by the Cr+++ion in ruby. Thermoluminescence data are presented showing that electron traps with activation energies of about 0.64 and 0.78 eV are formed in ruby as a result of γ-irradiation. These traps remain in the crystal until it is annealed at about 800°C. It is found that the threshold energy for laser action increases in relation to the amount of irradiation. This effect is also manifested as a decrease in the luminescence of the R1line after γ-irradiation. A model has been devised to explain the changes in Cr+++ions due to γ-irradiation and to show how this affects laser action. Theoretical curves are presented indicating how the energy output vs. energy input varies with the amount of γ-irradiation. These data show a definite increase in threshold energy, and at higher pump energies they suggest the possibility of higher efficiencies than possible before irradiation. These theoretical results are supported by experimental data."
"The self locking behavior of 6328 Å He-Ne gas lasers has been investigated at various mirror separations by controlling the oscillation intensity with the aid of an intracavity modulator. The results indicate that the self-locked gas laser withmlight pulses bouncing back and forth between both the mirrors oscillates ordinarily at mfpmode interval (fpis the fundamental axial mode interval) and exceptionally at1f_{p}mode interval. The ordinary self locking, that is, mfplocking, easily occurs around a certain curve plotted as a function of internal oscillation power and of pulse repetition rate or oscillating mode interval regardless of the multiplicitym. This optimum curve of self locking is related to the minimum spread of oscillating mode intervals which results from the frequency pulling, dependent on excitation level only, and from the hole repulsion, dependent on both mode intensity and oscillating mode interval. Accordingly, the repetition rate of the output laser pulse increases with the oscillation intensity on the optimum curve of self locking. The mode quenching, which is a necessary condition of mfplocking (m \\neq 1), is associated with the axial mode interval and the effective damping constant representing half the hole width. In consequence, the mfplocking with largemoccurs in long cavities and becomes difficult with the increase ofm. The power-dependent transition from1f_{p}to2f_{p}self locking is illustrated by the power-dependence of the effective damping constant. In order to realize mfpself locking, the relative positions of the discharge tube and both the mirrors must be chosen so as to make the2mth spatial Fourier component of the excitation density predominant over the other components. The pulse repetition rate of the output light from a locked gas laser is limited mainly by the damping constant of the laser medium. For this reason, the technique of mfplocking is desirable rather to get high output power pulse using a long tube and cavity than to realize high speed pulse using a short tube and cavity."
"An expression is derived for the gain coefficient of a laser mode sustained by excited ions produced in a dc gas discharge. Included in the derivation are the effects of the left-right gain asymmetry introduced by ion drift. From this expression, laser power versus frequency curves are obtained which are fit to experimental data obtained on the 4880-Å and 5145-Å transitions of singly ionized argon. From the curve fitting procedure, radiation interaction widths and saturation intensities for the transitions are determined. In addition, it is shown that the fraction of population inversion utilized during single-frequency operation of these lasers can be quite large."
"The simplest aspect of a time-dependent analysis of self-focusing is a pronounced sharpening of the on-axis intensity pulse at distances less than the self-focusing length. We present a simple mathematical analysis of this effect and indicate its magnitude for a typical input pulse."
"The continuously pumped YA1G : Nd laser has been repetitivelyQ-switched by a rotating mirror, yielding pulses with a peak power of 1 kW, a pulse width of 175 ns, and a repetition rate of 500 pulses per second. The output, at a wavelength of 1.064 microns, consisted of five longitudinal modes with approximately 60 percent of the power in the lowest order TEM00transverse mode. The dependance of the laser performance on mirror curvature and transmission. was studied, and the system was optimized with respect to peak power and pulse amplitude stability. The observed performance is compared to theory and found to be in excellent agreement. Consideration is given to the possibility of achieving higher peak powers and shorter pulse widths, with the conclusion that pulse widths of 75 ns and peak powers of 200 kW should be possible with continuous tungsten pumping by using 6.25 mm diameter 7.5 cm long rods, Repetition rates approaching 4000 Hz with full peak power and higher rates at reduced peak power levels are possible. Results of flash lamp pumping experiments indicate that with the same crystal used here peak powers of 1MW and pulse widths of 5 ns or less are possible using a flash lamp input of approximately 10 watts. seconds. Several applications of this laser including the field of nonlinear optics are considered. The most promising application at present appears to be in the field of micromachining, where the feasibility of fabricating passive thin film circuitry has been established."
"We have studied an optically-induced index inhomoganeity in CdS. Using ∼10 mW of focused laser radiation whose frequency is near the band gap, a reduction in index as large as one part in 103was observed which resulted in induced lenses with focal lengths as short as 1 mm. We also find large absorption saturation and highly efficient recombination radiation (green edge emission) accompanying the index effects. Changes in optical transmission of two orders of magnitude and quantum conversion efficiencies of ∼50 percent were measured. The effects occur in selected samples near liquid nitrogen and liquid hydrogen temperature. Various mechanisms for the inhomogeneities are discussed. The effect is ultimately attributed to the presence of compensated Cd acceptor vacancies which act, directly or indirectly, as absorbing centers. The relevance of these effects to laser-induced index inhomogeneities occurring in LiNbO3and LiTaO3is discussed."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of this periodical."
"An alternative to ring lasers for spin-rate sensing is proposed, which is less sensitive but potentially more compact. It consists of a two-mirror CW laser supporting a higher-order TEMplLaguerre-Gaussian mode of the ring type, isolated by means of a uniform annular distribution of net gain."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"A compensation method is presented for the elimination of the unwanted discharge modulation noise in gas lasers, while the laser action is left unchanged. Another method is suggested for suppression of the discharge modulation in the laser beam."
"Recently completed experiments demonstrated the feasibility of a coherent optical array, using 1.06-micron laser components. This paper reports on automatic techniques used to control the relative phase of Nd :glass power amplifiers with gains up to 10 dB. Both amplifiers, fed from a master oscillator, were pumped repetitively at rates of one pulse per two seconds."
"In this paper the results of a study of the amplification characteristics of lasers for signals injected near their frequencies of oscillation are reported. An approximate theoretical treatment is given which indicates that substantial amplification will occur under conditions for which the anisotropy of the laser cavity is small, the polarization state of the injected signal is orthogonal to that of the primary oscillation, and the two signals are critically coupled. For like polarization of these signals, postive amplification occurs only for substantially reduced laser excitation or increased cavity loss. The experimental observations are in qualitative agreement with the theoretical predictions with gains as high as 600 having been observed for orthogonal polarizations near critical coupling. The optical bandwidth appears to be at least several MHz."
"An optical heterodyne communication system is described which employs a separate stable laser local oscillator at the receiver. The theoretical advantage of quantum-limited reception has been realized, demonstrating an improvement in receiver sensitivity of more than 40 dB over that of a conventional photodetector receiver. The fundamental sources of noise in the system are identified as laser oscillator frequency noise, atmospheric phase noise, atmospheric amplitude noise, and quantum noise. The quantitative characteristics of these noise sources are analyzed as they influence the operation of AM and FM laser communications."
"Five glasses, four diamagnetic and one paramagnetic, were evaluated as Faraday rotation optical isolator materials. For each glass, absorbance, relative beam-spread degradation, and passive extinction ratio were measured. A number of notched-bore electromagnets and a permanent magnet, which were used in the evaluation of these glasses as isolators, are described. Measurements on a 15-mm-diameter by 55-mm-long rod of terbium-doped alumina silicate at room temperature and in a magnetic field of 6000 gauss, using 1.06-micron amplified spontaneous emission as a source, yielded forward-to-backward ratios of 30 dB over a 1-cm-diameter aperture. Measurements conducted at 0.633 microns on a well-annealed lead-glass sample resulted in forward-to-backward ratios of 45 dB. An analysis is included of the factors limiting high forward-to-backward ratios and experimental details of several completed isolators are given."
"Previous experiments with a lens-type beam waveguide have demonstrated the applicability of such guides to efficient long distance transmission at optical frequencies. In practical applications it will be necessary to automatically compensate for movements of the ground which would misalign the guide and thus cause increased transmission loss. In order to investigate the practicability of \"self-aligning\" optical beam waveguides the available experimental guide was modified by adding a sensing device at each lens which indicates any displacement of the beam from the lens center. The displacement information is used to move the preceding lens in such a direction that the beam displacement is reduced. The automatic alignment procedure consists of sequential probing of the beam position at each lens and the corresponding corrective movement of the preceding lens. This procedure maintains essentially the same light path between the end points of the guide, independent of the movements of the ground. The maximum lateral excursions of the beam from the ideal path which occur in the present installation of one kilometer length are less than one millimeter and have no effect on the transmission loss. This alignment accuracy could be greatly increased, which might be of interest for geological measurements concerning movements in the Earth's crust."
"The design of a five-kilohertz repetition-rate pulsed YAG:Nd laser of one watt average output power is described. Four problem areas are considered: the relation between material properties and performance, optical pumps, resonators, and cooling."
"The switching and controlling of laser oscillation by optical injection or radiative-coupling schemes using the two laser system are investigated theoretically and experimentally in this paper. The output from aQ-switched laser was injected into the second laser to effect optical coupling. Corresponding to this model, we have succeeded in deriving a general analytical expression for the functional dependance of the quenching time interval on the parameters of the radiation-coupled lasers. The experimental results obtained using two ruby lasers compare quite favorably with the theoretical analysis. Finally, the preliminary observation of self-control or automodulation of laser oscillation due to optically induced ultrasonic vibration of the ruby rod through the optical coupling with the single laser pulse is mentioned briefly."
"The Laser Tracking System at Goddard Space Flight Center has obtained several sets of data from the BE-C and GEOS-A satellites. This paper presents the results of the analysis of data taken with this system, whose primary measurement is the slant range from the tracker to the satellite."
"The applicability of underwater optical range gating, designed to extend the range of underwater visibility, was demonstrated in a series of experiments. With black tape patterns on a Scotchlite background as the target, comparison photographs of gated and nongated exposures illustrated the feasibility of extending the range of underwater photography by reducing the intermediate veiling luminance caused by backscattered light. Theoretical and experimental results of these tests are presented."
"An interferometric method is described for measuring the phase shifts caused by anomalous dispersion in laser active media under actual oscillating conditions. In addition, some data are presented which show how this method can be used to measure dispersion in a single-frequency 10.6-micron CO2laser plasma. The application of an interferometer of this kind to laser frequency stabilization is also discussed, and an absolute frequency stabilization scheme for CO2lasers is suggested. Because the phase shift observed is an antisymmetrical function about the center of the molecular resonance, it can be used directly as an absolute frequency control discriminant. The resulting frequency control system requires neither amplitude nor frequency modulation of the laser. A modification of a Mach-Zehnder interferometer for the measurement of dispersion in laser amplifiers is also described. This modified interferometer was used to measure phase shift as a function of frequency in an unsaturated traveling-wave CO2amplifier. The oscillographic data resulting from these measurements are shown."
"Lifetimes of 18 000 hours have been achieved for He-Ne gas discharge tubes with aluminum cold cathodes, a current of 5mA, a gas volume of 42 cm3and an initial pressure of 3.15 torr. Larger versions using a gas volume of 110 cm3and an initial pressure of 1.54 torr are exceeding 5000 hours at 20 mA."
"Experiments have shown a one-to-one correspondence between the intensity of a fundamental pulse of light and its second harmonic. This correspondence is observed when the fundamental is each pulse of light in one train of pulses generated by a mode-locked laser. Such fundamental light shows no variation in the spatial distribution of intensity from pulse to pulse in one train of pulses and no randomness in the phases and amplitudes of the locked modes. As a result of these conditions, the ratio of harmonic intensity to the square of the fundamental shows little or no deviation from the mean. To contrast this, the wide fluctuations in this ratio observed when the laser is not mode-locked are also presented. In addition, the deviation from a square law in the relatianship between harmonic and fundamental intensities in one burst laser pulse is demonstrated. These deviations are found less often when the laser cavity is short (40 cm) than when it is long (3 meters). They may be attributed to the appearance or disappearance of different modes of oscillation during the pulse and possible variations in the mode amplitudes."
"The self-pulsing laser oscillator is examined theoretically by developing a simple model based on the assumption that the pulse in the laser cavity is a 180° pulse for the medium. The concept of an optical 180° pulse is closely analogous to the idea of a 180° RF pulse discussed in spin-echo studies. The range of parameters for which a laser oscillator is expected to be self-pulsing is found from this theory, and the results are compared with experimental observations of the behavior of a 6328 Å He-Ne laser oscillator. Observations of self-pulsing are made as a function of cavity length, position of the gain medium in the laser cavity, and laser excitation. Observations of pulse widths and output frequency spectra are also reported. It is found that the main features of the experimental observations agree well with the theoretical predictions."
"Measurements of differential external quantum efficiency as high as 66 percent have been observed at 77°K in an electron-beam pumped GaAs laser doped at2 \\times 10^{18}/cm3with Sn. Peak-power output of the order of 20 watts has been obtained at both 4.2° and 77°K."
"Collinear 3.3913- and 0.6328-micron laser beams were mixed in LiNbO3to produce the sum frequency corresponding to 0.5333 microns. The laser beams were generated simultaneously in a single He-Ne laser tube. With incident powers of 4.43 and 2.75 mW at 0.63 and 3.39 microns, respectively,3.65 \\times 10^{-7}mW were generated at 0.53 microns. The magnitude of this conversion is in satisfactory agreement with theory. Some of the characteristics of this system when viewed as an infrared detector are also given."
"Laser-initiated breakdown of high-voltage spark gaps has been extended to the megavolt range through the use of a novel coaxial triggering geometry. In this configuration, a 100-to 250-megawatt ruby laser of 1.4- to 3.5-joules output was aligned along the interelectrode axis of the spark gap. The laser beam passed through a hemispherical electrode, mounted on a hollow shaft, and was focused by a lens internal to this electrode at the opposite-switch electrode surface. Based on investigations of the effect of polarity on switch performance, i.e., least delay and jitter, it was concluded that 1) irradiation of the charged electrode was preferred and 2) irradiation of positive-rather than negative-charged electrodes gave best performance. Delay times between arrival of the laser pulse and complete gap closure as short as 2 ns with unmeasurable jitter (< 1 ns) were readily attainable under various conditions (high-pressure and high-reduced fields). By recourse to classical arc breakdown theories, i.e., Townsend avalanche and streamer mechanisms, it was concluded that the variation of delay with reduced field follows an avalanche process. However, for an explanation of extremely short delays observed (high-velocity closure rates), a streamer mechanism is necessary. Photographs of laser-triggered breakdown gave consistently single-channel straight arc breakdown with the absence of lossy arrested discharges, while self-breakdown or mechanically triggered breakdown produced longer and irregular breakdown channels with numerous energy-absorbing arrested leaders. This observation is in concert with the extremely short delays observed and leads us to suspect that volume dielectric breakdown or at least arc channel preparation is responsible for the observed results."
"Further developments and experiments of the laser current transformer for extra-high-voltage power transmission lines are described. A developmental model for reproduction of a large current waveform of extra-high-voltage is constructed by using a 6328-Å gas laser beam and a flint glass rod fixed on the top of 30-cm-diameter supporting insulators. It was tested at the Shiobara Laboratory of the Central Research Institute of the Electric Power Industry. Experiments under large current and/or high-voltage conditions of a 50-Hz continuous and impulse current basis reveal that the transformer will perform its functions satisfactorily in an extra-high-voltage line. A microwave current transformer (under development in Japan), which uses a Faraday rotation of a microwave instead of a laser beam for measuring a current of an extra-high-voltage wire, is compared with the laser current transformer."
"Performance of a very long air-path spectrometer for use in air pollution measurements can be greatly enhanced using IR lasers. We describe experiments with a sealed-off, step-tunable laser using isotopes of CO2and indicate possible system performance."
"Laser action was found in electrical discharge containing carbon, nitrogen, and hydrogen or deuterium in their elemental forms. The wavelengths of oscillation observed were the same as those associated in the literature as resulting from transitions within rotation and vibrational states of the CN radical. Different wavelengths were observed when deuterium gas was substituted for hydrogen. No laser action was observed if neither hydrogen nor deuterium was present in the discharge, confirming that the active species is not the CN radical. Several organic compounds and combinations of organic and inorganic compounds were also tried. New lines were observed at 193.8, 198.8, 281, and 291 microns."
"A video-frequency transverse electrooptic light amplitude modulator utilizing the matrix element γ41in ADP is described and compared favorably with other modulator configurations using ADP, KDP, and KD*P. It utilizes two crystals to compensate for stemperature and angular dependences of birefringence, and has more than adequate stability for normal laboratory use. A useful built-in optical bias control is provided. Frequency response has been measured between 50 Hz and 5 MHz and found to be flat. Video signals have been transmitted over a laser communication link using only 50-volt peak-to-peak drive. Half-wave voltage is 220 volts and capacity is 53 pF, giving a drive-power requirement of 2.6 watts per MHz of bandwidth for 100-percent modulation depth, or 290 mW for 50-percent modulation depth. Optical transmission was 70 percent achieved by using an index matching liquid. An extinction ratio of 30:1 was obtained using a laser light source."
"An instrument has been constructed which simultaneously measures optical path length at two wavelengths and so permits determination of average refractive index over the common path and hence distance to1 \\times 10^{-6}or better without extensive meteorological observations. Using a He-Ne laser (6328 Å) and a filtered high-pressure mercury arc lamp (3681 Å), the instrument is expected to measure distances to 15 kilometers with accuracies as high as a few parts in ten million. Preliminary measurements over a 5.3-km path give a standard deviation of 0.15 cm, or better than3 \\times 10^{-7}."
"A theoretical and an experimental analysis of optical depolarization due to atmospheric transmission is given. We used the geometrical optics approximation and applied Chernov's three-dimensional ray statistics model for the calculations. The theory predicts that the root-mean-square change of the polarization angle of an optical beam propagating through the atmosphere is of the order of 10-9rad/km. This was found to increase linearly with the path-length. The experiment was designed to measure the amount of depolarization of a linearly polarized laser wave propagating through the atmosphere. The measurements over a 2.6-km path length indicated the absence of such an effect. The sensitivity of these measurements was limited by the equipment used to -42 dB in the daytime and to -45 dB at night."
"Analyses and experiments have been carried out on heterodyne detection at 10.6 microns with the objective of obtaining IF bandwidth capability into the microwave region. UHF and microwave measurements on the quantum-noise-limited generation-recombination (G-R) noise spectrum of compensated copper-doped germanium photoconductive mixer elements, measured under operational conditions at 10.6 microns, have shown response to beyond 2 GHz. The experiments were carried out directly at 10.6 microns using a mixer geometry and circuit arrangement intended to yield large mixer conversion gain and IF bandwidth. Engineering design equations are given for noise equivalent power (NEP) and mixer conversion gain (G) in terms of such parameters as IF noise factor, carrier transit time, carrier lifetime, mixer resistance, local oscillator power, dc bias power, etc. An expression for quantum-noise factor (QF) is defined. Graphs are also presented showing the effect on NEP,G, and QF of various parameters, and the tradeoffs possible to achieve high-frequency IF capability. An alternative approach is presented in which mixer conversion gain is calculated directly from the mixerI-Vcharacteristic in a manner analogous to microwave mixers."
"This paper presents a generalized mathematical model of a PCM/PL system. The analysis demonstrates that any two orthogonal polarizations may be used to represent the binary bits. The generalized approach also facilitates the derivation of the system bit error rate when polarization errors are introduced. Six types of polarization errors are assumed for the discussion. The various cases of polarization errors are presented as operations on the Poincaré sphere. These operations are then formalized in terms of the Mueller Matrix theory. The matrix algebra permits the derivation of the bit error-rate curves for the six polarization error cases. Assuming that the atmospheric-induced fading is log normally distributed, the bit error rate for a PCM/PL fading channel is computed."
"Synchronous intercavity amplitude modulation of a ring laser operating well above threshold causes the numerous axial modes in each oppositely directed (OD) wave to lock into fixed amplitudes and phases. The light in the cavity is composed of two oppositely directed pulses of roughly 30-cm spatial extent. Saturation of the active medium dictates the location of the modulator for symmetric treatment of the OD pulses. If the modulator is located symmetrically (natural crossing), the pulses cross at the modulator and have identical amplitudes. If the modulator is located asymmetrically, the OD pulses generally have different amplitudes, experience different net population inversions in the active medium, and do not cross at the modulator. A frequency offset between OD pulses also appears when the modulator is located asymmetrically. Other phase-locking phenomena including extinction of one of the OD waves are observed. When the modulator is located symmetrically, the rotation sensing is improved with multimode phase-locked operation over that of the same ring laser operating near threshold. Frequency locking still occurs, however, at about three times the earth rate, or approximately 200 Hz. The locking frequency is found to depend upon modulator depth and frequency. The frequency locking may result from internally reflected pulses which are necessarily coincident with the proper pulses when the modulator is located symmetrically, and a modulation scheme has been devised to reduce such effects."
"A direction-finding device has been designed making use of the properties of the ring laser. The order of magnitude precision for laser gyro is 0.1 degree per hour. The north determination requires long integration time when the plate is static. However, this may be vastly improved by a dynamic method. In this experiment, the ring laser is not rotated about its sensitive axis but about an axis parallel to its plane at constant rate. The beat frequency obtained is frequency modulated. The frequency deviation is proportional to the varying flux of the Earth's rotation through the cavity area. A discriminator detects this modulation. A reference light source which may be displaced about the rotation axis gives a synchropulse every time its beam is normal to the plate. This pulse is fed in a synchronous detector for detection of the output of the discriminator. A feedback control loop sets the reference so that the phase detector gives a null output, that is, when the synchropulse coincides with a maximum of the sine wave. The point source and the rotation axis then define the north direction. Results comparing static and dynamic measurements are given. Accuracy and integration time are discussed."
"A laser tracking system has been used to track three satellites equipped with retroreflectors. An rms scatter of one to two meters derived from 200-200 observations per pass agrees with the expected instrumental precision."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of this periodical."
"This paper provides an assessment of the maximum all-weather operational range for \"single-ping\" terrestrial laser rangefinders. It is shown that this range is a function of a single parameter involving the transmitted pulse energy, receiver aperture area, photoelectric quantum efficiency, and operating wavelength. By virtue of this convenient parameter, trade-offs between different laser materials and system parameters can be made by inspection, as well as comparative evaluations of different range-finder designs. The major uncontrollable factor which affects the range performance of these devices is weather conditions; the effects arise from signal loss due to atmospheric extinction and spurious returns due to backscatter from atmospheric particles. A first-order theory for the analysis of the effect of weather on the performance of pulsed laser rangefinders shows that the maximum backscatter varies as1/R^{3}compared with a1/R^{2}or1/R^{4}dependence of minimum signal. The effects of backscatter can be minimized by incorporation of a time-programmed gain circuit in the receiver. Calculations for the design of optimum time-programmed gain characteristics are given, as well as experimental results with actual systems designed by this procedure."
"A He-Ne laser has been mode locked by an internal modulator aud mode-locked pulses have been dumped from the cavity by an internal KDP deflector. Short (∼2ns) high peak-power pulses (30 watts) were detected at 6328 Å. Following a deflection event, the buildup of optical power in the cavity could be directly observed. Cavity buildup times of\\sim5\\mus were evident, indicating that full-powered pulses may be deflected at rates up to 200 kHz, It was also noted that without any mode-locking modulation in the cavity, the laser builds up in quasi-mode-locked pulses which decay, leaving the CW remainder."
"A system is described for determining the acceleration of gravity using a stablized He-Ne laser as the light source in a Michelson-type interferometer which incorporates a freely falling corner reflector as one of its mirrors. The method effectively utilizes the most precise standards presently available for the measurement of length and time and is capable of an accuracy of better than 5 parts in 108."
"Several lasers with output powers ranging from 40 to over 100 W/m and efficiencies greater than 25 percent have been produced at Redstone Arsenal. The information obtained from these lasers has been used to design and construct a 180-foot-long N2-CO2-He laser which operates in the multikilowatt range with efficiencies and powers per unit length comparable to the smaller lasers of similar construction. This laser has been constructed in modular form. Each module is 9 feet, 8 inches long, and performance data were obtained as a function of length each time modules were added. The design and operating characteristics of these lasers are discussed, and also, the data which were obtained as a function of length are presented."
"A profiling apparatus, in which a He-Ne 6328-Å laser beam is used as a probe, will be described. The laser beam is focused on a target by a servo-driven optical system. An objective lens works not only for converging the laser beam but also for condensing the light scattered from the target. The displacement from focus was detected by a photodetector and a vibrating pinhole plate. Contour measurements were made on the surfaces of plaster, clay, and brass. The reproducibility in indicated distances was within 2 microns when the surface was stopped and the angle of incidence at the surface was nearly zero. As for the profiling of curved surfaces, the profiling errors from the plaster seemed to be lower than 40 microns. The errors from the rough surface of brass were 50 to 80 microns, but the highly glossy surface of brass created larger errors which were illustrated by a spherical aberration of the lenses."
"A continuously variable delay of electromagnetic signals in the 107to 109Hz region is achieved through the interaction of a laser beam and an acoustic wave. Delays up to 10μs can be obtained in single-pass configurations while substantially longer delays are available in folded acoustic path configurations. Several novel optical-heterodyning techniques are employed to recover the delayed signal impressed on the laser beam. A theoretical study of the bandwidth limitations is presented along with several experimental verifications and a bandwidth measurement technique. Finally, the use of electronically controlled, optically scanned configurations to affect the variable delay is discussed."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"The method of determining the stimulated emission cross section from the fluorescence changes of an excited medium caused by a resonance laser pulse is discussed. As an illustration of this method\\sigma\\simeq2 \\cdot 10^{2}cm2has been measured for a Nd silicate glass laser."
"A method employing both multiple-beam and two-beam interferometry for the measurement of extremely small changes in thickness and refractive index of glass plates is described. The glass plate which is to be measured is scanned through a narrow laser beam in one arm of a Twyman-Green interferometer, the output of which constitutes one arm of a two-beam optical measuring set. By measuring the changes in intensity of the light emerging from the interferometer (once with the interferometer mirrors in use and once with the mirrors blocked), two sets of data are obtained which permit the separate determination of the variations of thickness and refractive index. Since the optical measuring set can easily detect changes in light intensity of one part in 10-3, changes in thickness of the order of\\lambda/1000and changes in refractive index of the order of 10-7can be measured. By scanning over the area of the sample, a contour diagram depicting both thickness variations and refractive index variations can be constructed."
"An optical analog computer has been demonstrated which is capable of obtaining quantitative estimates of transfer functions of systems from finite records of input and response data and power spectra of the input and response. The inputx(t)and responsez(t)are recorded as amplitude-transmission variations on a photographic plate. To compute the power spectrum ofx(t), the Fourier transformX(\\omega)ofx(t)is formed by illuminatingx(t)with light from a He-Ne laser and focusing the resulting diffraction pattern with a lens to formX(\\omega). This diffraction pattern, when read out with a properly-shaped light-gathering probe connected to a photomultiplier, will yield an estimate of the power spectrum ofx(t). In a similar manner, the power spectrum ofz(t)is estimated. To estimate the transfer functionH(\\omega), a hologram ofX*(\\omega)is made. From the hologram, a transparency is made whose amplitude transmission is proportional to1/ X*(\\omega)X(\\omega). When the hologram is illuminated byZ(\\omega), the resulting diffraction pattern will containX*(\\omega)Z(\\omega).X*(\\omega)Z(\\omega)is then imaged onto the transparency whose amplitude transmission is1/X*(\\omega)X(\\omega)formingH(\\omega) = X*(\\omega)Z (\\omega)/ X*(\\omega)X(\\omega). Experimental results are presented which indicate that good estimates of power spectra and transfer functions can be obtained by this method."
"A quartz ablating lamp laser pump which emits intense short-duration radiation, particularly in the ultraviolet, is described. The peak radiation approximates a 19000°K blackbody at wavelengths greater than 3500 Å,and pulse durations are about 30 μs. The lamp successfully pumped a CaF2crystal, doped with ErF3and TmF3to laser emission at 8465 ± 25 Å. In addition, the laser pump was operated at repetition rates up to 30 pulses per second and successfully pumped a neodymium-doped glass rod at repetition rates up to 6 pulses per second."
"The Raman laser is potentially a device capable of converting laser output of poor spatial quality into a nearly diffraction-limited beam with high efficiency. A number of factors must be considered in the design of a Raman laser. To avoid beam trapping, gases are preferable as Raman media at high-power levels. For optimal mode control, an oscillator-amplifier combination is the most flexible configuration. Considerations of oscillator and amplifier design are reviewed. The backward-traveling Raman amplifier is considered as a means of obtaining very high powers in short pulses, and its ultimate limitations are briefly discussed."
"A generalized expression is developed for the differential scan angle in terms of the gradient of wavelengths in the medium, and thus the gradient of the index of refraction in optical media. This large class of nonmechanical deflectors is shown to impose aberrations upon convergent light flux which are directly related to the magnitude of scan angle and thefnumber of the focusing bundle. A uniform gradient case is analyzed and magnitudes of distortions are evaluted. Distortion is shown to increase rapidly as thefnumber is reduced. Since diffraction limitations dominate at highfnumbers, an optimumfnumber exists at which the maximum number of spots may be subtended per scan increment. This optimum is shown to beF_{opt} = (\\sqrt{2}nL/8a\\lambda)^{1/3}wherenis the refractive index,Lis the scan length,ais an aperture shape factor (1 < a < 1.5), and λ is the wavelength (in same units asL). The maximum spots per scan,R_{\\max} = 1.46(L/a\\lambda)^{2/3} n^{-1/3}is independent of the dimensions of the deflector and may be further constrained by the boundaries of the cell. This problem may be further generalized for all ray-like flux tubes, such as electron beams. Possibilities for the control of aberrations by gradient shaping are considered."
"A compact optical intensity modulator has been constructed and tested which operates at 6328 Å and requires 60 mW of drive power per MHz of operating bandwidth. Intensity modulation of 100 percent was achieved with a transistorized driver delivering 6 watts over a 100-kHz to 10O-MHz bandwidth. The low drive-power performance is obtained by using a KD*P crystal modulator cell having a large length to cross-section ratio and laser beam condensing optics. This paper treats the design of the optical modulator and the results of tests performed over the 100-MHz bandwidth."
"Intermodulation effects in spin systems are analyzed using Bloch's equations with two sinusoidal driving signals. Circular polarization is assumed, and the results are given in terms of complex Fourier components of magnetization. Both homogeneously and inhomogeneously broadened lines are considered. It is found that maximum intermodulation occurs not when the two signals are nearly coincident in frequency, but when they are spaced by\\gammaH_{1}rad/s, where H1is the amplitude of the larger signal. As a corollary, it is shown that in mixer applications, the local oscillator field should be chosen such that\\gammaH_{1}is equal to the intermediate frequency. Experimental results are given for inhomogeneously-broadened nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) lines and are shown to confirm theoretical predictions. These predictions are also found to agree with published data on intermodulation in nuclear-and electron-magnetic resonance limiters."
"Characteristics of a gas laser amplifier are theoretically analyzed by employing Lamb's model. A wave equation in the time domain is obtained when traveling waves in the positive and negative directions are present simultaneously in the nonlinear active medium. The wave equation which contains linear and third-order nonlinear terms is applicable to any spectral construction of the incident signal, such as discrete, continuous, and mixed. An approximate solution of the wave equation is obtained in the frequency domain. Some characteristics of a kernel which appears in the frequency-domain representation are discussed. As an application of the theory, characteristics of one- and two-frequency amplifiers are calculated and compared to previous analysis."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of this periodical."
"Charged-particle diffusion theory of the positive column of a gas discharge predicts the establishment of a radial electric field, which by the second-order Stark effect produces a shift of the atomic line center in a single-frequency helium-neon laser. These frequency shifts are estimated with a simple theory. The results are: i) the atomic line center is a function of radial position in the discharge tube; ii) the magnitude of the frequency shift is proportional to (T_{e}/R)^{2}(where Teis the electron temperature andRis the tube radius); iii) the pressure dependence of the shift is via changes in Te; and iv) the frequency shifts are independent of discharge current."
"Modulation of a GaAs diode laser by a GaP electro-optic diode modulator internal to the laser cavity is proposed. Application of a reverse voltage to the modulator diode changes the state of polarization of the oscillating mode. One polarization component of the mode is efficiently coupled out of the cavity by reflection off a Brewster angle laser diode face. Solutions of the threshold equations for the mode frequencies, threshold gain, and the amplitude ratio and the relative phase of the polarization components of the oscillating mode exhibit novel behavior. This allows the laser-modulator combination to be used as either an intensity or a frequency modulated source. This frequency modulation regime in a coupling modulation configuration is an unexpected result and can be applied to other types of lasers. Calculations of the modulation characteristics based on measured properties of the GaP modulator diodes are presented. Operated as a Gürs-Müller coupling modulator (intensity modulation) the device could produce a depth of intensity modulation over 50 percent with a bandwidth of 1 to 3.5 GHz while dissipating only 0.1 watt in the modulator. Operated as a pure frequency modulator the device could have a 2.5 GHz bandwidth, again with 0.1 watt modulator dissipation. The modulator diode can also be used to produce pulse-code modulation. Up to one gigabit per second could be produced with the same modulator dissipation."
"A push-pull optical amplitude modulator is described, and some experimental results are presented. The modulator is an interferometer with phase modulators in each arm. The design gives good temperature stability and allows a reduced modulating voltage by using a transverse modulating field. The use of a Köster's beamsplitting prism provided a compact practical design for the experimental KDP modulator. The modulator held a null in the output of 20 dB below the input for periods of one hour. The frequency response out to 30 MHz and the pulse response of the modulator were measured. Strong piezoelectric resonances were observed. The advantages of the push-pull modulator design for use with LiNbO3or LiTaO3are pointed out."
"This bibliography compiled during the period from January, 1967, through June, 1967, contains 223 references which are divided into 16 categories and listed chronologically. Brief annotations are added to many references."
"The theoretical calculations presented are similar to those of other authors. The intrinsic threshold of laser diodes is computed on the basis of an electromagnetic propagation calculation. The diode properties are approximated by a sandwich structure for dielectric constant and conductivity. This model differs from the earlier ones by assuming a triangular distribution of dielectric constant and a similar one for the conductivity. In particular, however, allowance is made for a displacement of the peak of the dielectric constant relative to the maximum of inversion, a fact that should be expected from the details of the injection mechanism. The most important result of the calculation is a predicted lower threshold for the TM mode under a wide variety of conditions. This polarization is indeed found in diodes made from dislocation-free GaAs in which laser emission occurs in terms of a relatively wide homogeneous ribbonlike near field."
"An upper limit of between 25 and 35 ps has been determined for the relaxation time of the Eastman 9740 bleachable-dyeQ-switch solution. The measurement was made by determining the time dependence of the transmission of the dye cell inside a mode-locked Nd:glass laser, using a delayed, attenuated pulse from the same laser as a probe."
"Nonlinear optical properties of HgS have been of interest lately. The electrooptic effect has been measured in a natural crystal and values for the two independent coefficients are reported here at wavelengths of 0.63 and 3.39 microns. The results agree well with predictions of purely electronic theories, but the wavelength dependence indicates an appreciable contribution of ionic motion to the optical polarizability."
"Small-signal gain of flowing gas CO2laser amplifiers at 10.6 microns has been optimized for media including pure CO2CO2: N2, CO2: He, CO2: CO, CO2: O2, CO2: N2: He, CO2: CO : He, and CO2: CO : N2. Optimum gain of all flowing gas systems studied increases monotonically with increasing gas flow rate. In the low CO2flow rate region, 10 < RCO2: < 50 cm3/min, gas flow enhances the gain most for systems containing N2. Results provide strong evidence that the rapid increase in gain with flow rate in CO2: N2mixtures is due to removal by convection of the dissociated product CO. For 50 < RCO2< 200 cm3/min, a slow linear increase in gain of all gas mixtures with increasing flow rate occurs and is attributed to the cooling of gas temprature by convection. A stronger dependence of gainGon amplifier boreD, viz.,G \\propto I/D, was obtained for flowing gas media relative to that previously observed for nonflowing gas mixtures which is consistent with the proposed mechanism of gas cooling by convection. Highest gain values obtained were 7.8 and 6.2 dB/m with the flowing gas mixtures CO2: N2: He and CO2: CO : He, respectively, in a 12 mm bore water-cooled amplifier tube. Similarities between CO2: N2and CO2: CO systems suggest that pumping of the CO2laser by resonant transfer from CO* (\\upsilon = 1) can be significant."
"The theory of an optical maser in the presence of an external static magnetic field has been discussed recently by several authors. It is shown here that a considerable simplification of the theory results when one uses a tensor operator expansion of the density matrix describing the system."
"Stimulated Raman scattering (SRS) from infrared-active phonons in quartz is discussed. The scattering is concluded to be from a different region ofkspace than that previously stated in the literature. The possibility of producing a broadly tunable parametric oscillator via SRS in quartz is viewed with pessimism."
"In this paper we start from our Quantum Noise IV model of a homogenously broadened maser and specialize to the case in which the number of photons and the population difference are the slowest changing variables. In spite of the high coherence of the system, we find that by eliminating all other variables adiabatically we obtain the usual rate equations plus a set of noise sources with precisely those moments appropriate to shot noise. Thus we justify McCumber's model for amplitude noise in a laser, and after making a quasi-linear approximation obtain his amplitude spectrum. Comparison with exact calculations of Hempstead and Lax for the rotating wave van der Pol oscillator suggests that quasi-linear methods are accurate except within a factor 10 (in photon number) of threshold."
"Single-pass gain at 10.6 microns has been studied parametrically in nonflowing CO2or buffered CO2amplifying media. The gain profile across the amplifier diameter and integrated gain both were determined. Parameters varied included buffer gas type, mixture ratio, gas pressure, amplifier bore, discharge current, and wall temperature. Tube bores of 12, 22, and 34 mm and buffer gases of H2, He, Ne, A, and N2were studied. Optimum gain is relatively independent of current density, but decreases with increasing wall temperature. The pressure-diameter relationshipP_{CO_{2}} \\cdot D \\sim 4torr-cm was found to hold for CO2, CO2:He, and CO2:N2amplifying media at optimum gain. The gain depends strongly on the CO2partial pressure and is relatively insensitive to the buffer gas pressure except for the case of H2. The maximum gain decreased slowly with increasing amplifier diameter. The highest gain, 1.7 dB/meter, was achieved with a helium buffer gas in amplifiers with a diameter of 22 mm or less. No gain saturation was detected for a 30-dB range of input signal power, from a milliwatt to a few watts. Spectrograms showed that the principal spontaneous emission from CO2:He amplifiers in the 2000-7000-Å range consisted of CO bands; no CO2bands or He line spectra were observed."
"A dynamic correspondence is set up between the density matrix of the electromagnetic field and an associated classical function. Means of one and two time quantum operators are shown to be obtainable from the corresponding averages of the associated classical random problem. When all atomic response rates are fast compared to photon rates, the equation of motion is obtained for the field density matrix. The associated classical problem is shown to obey a Fokker-Planck equation. Over a broad region that includes the threshold region, the Fokker-Planck equation is reduced to that for the rotating-wave van der Pol oscillator for which exact numerical solutions have been previously obtained by Hempstead and Lax."
"The Bragg formalism which describes the diffraction of optical radiation by traveling acoustic waves is generalized to include diffraction in anisotropic media. When the diffracted and incident optical polarizations are different, the Bragg relations require important modification. The correctness of the suggested modifications is confirmed by experiments using optical diffraction from longitudinal and transverse acoustic waves in crystal quartz and in sapphire. A special case of diffraction from longitudinal waves in an anisotropic medium is discussed as a simple example of a collinear parametric interaction."
"An experimental investigation has been performed in order to explain why the output energy from a ruby laser is always reduced when passing from normal laser operation toQ-switching operation. A saturable absorber was used as the switching element; however, the discussion about the energy losses is valid for everyQ-switching system. Experimental data allow one to evaluate the decrease of the output energy due to the reduced pumping efficiency, to the losses in the optical switch, and to the incomplete depletion of the inversion arising from the spatial inhomogeneity of the standing wave in the resonator and from the relaxation processes in the ruby line."
"The semiclassical model of Shen and Bloembergen is applied to discuss the stimulated Raman effects in an anisotropic medium. In crystal KDP when the linear electrooptic effects are suppressed by proper orientation of the laser polarization with respect to the crystal axes, the coupled-wave analysis for Stokes generation give rise to solutions of ten composite Stokes-vibrational waves in the (anisotropic) Raman active medium. These composite waves may be identified as two ordinary forward-traveling waves, two ordinary backward-traveling waves, three extraordinary forward-traveling waves, and three extraordinary backward-traveling waves. When the phonons are nonpropagating, the solutions reduce to only one ordinary and one extraordinary wave in each direction. The thresholds and Stokes generations in this situation are discussed. Owing to the anisotropy of the crystal, it is found that the dispersion of KDP in general allows the momentum-matching condition for the coupling between Stokes and anti-Stokes waves to be nearly satisfied in five different situations."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of this periodical."
"The Tonks-Langmuir theory for the low-pressure positive column is reviewed and shown to be applicable to argon ion laser operation. Under these conditions ions formed in the plasma are accelerated and move by free fall to the wall. The sputtering effects of the ions on the plasma confining structure are evaluated for both a uniform insulator wall and a sectioned metal wall. A test is described where materials suitable for a sectioned column are compared. Of the materials tested (Ta, Mo, and graphite), graphite is shown to have outstanding properties for argon laser applications. A successful 1000-hour life test is described. Only slight sputtering damage was observed for the graphite plasma confining structure. Design considerations for long life argon lasers are discussed. These include choice of cathode, electrode shapes, plasma confinement structure, and tube processing. Solutions to the argon clean-up problem are described. Argon lasers built according to these recommendations are exemplified."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of this periodical."
"This paper presents a detailed nonlinear analysis of the internally loss-modulated laser including the effect of arbitrary atomic lineshape, saturation, and mode pulling. Results of the analysis are in part numerical and include a study of the spectral and time domain behavior of the laser output. The results include a determination of the minimum perturbation strength which is necessary to produce phase locking, peak pulse amplitude, and minimum pulsewidth as a function of perturbation strength, a consideration of the detuned case, and a comparison of AM- versus FM-type phase locking. Results are compared with the previously obtained linearized solutions of others."
"The fabrication and operation of CaF2:Dy2+lasers are considered in detail. Laser action occurs at 4238.5 cm-1(extrapolated to 0°K) between the states T1(5I7)\\rightarrow T_{2}(5I8).Chemical or electrolytic reduction techniques produce the most stable laser rods. The fluorescent lifetime of the (5I7) states depends primarily upon the total Dy concentration in the crystal and varies from over 50 ms at low concentrations to 10 ms at 0.2 percent dysprosium. This lifetime is essentially temperature independent. The operation of the laser in a magnetic field is analyzed. By aligning the magnetic field and the laser axis parallel to the crystalline [100] axis, modulation of the laser output can be obtained at rates up to 1 MHz with a few tens of gauss modulating field. The saturation in laser output power at high levels is due to the finite lifetime of the (5I7) multiplet, which is estimated to be several ms. The fluorescent linewidth of the laser transition varies from 4 cm-1at 200°K to 0.024 cm-1at 4.2°K. The absolute energy of the transition shifts 2.0 cm-1over the same temperature range with a slope of -0.009 cm-1/°K at 77°K. A technique of cooling the crystal with flowing, nonboiling liquid N2permits high-level laser operation near 77°K. Power outputs up to 1.21 watts have been obtained from CaF2:Dy2+when the crystal is pumped optically with two 1-kW tungsten lamps in a double ellipse. Under these conditions, the crystal temperature rises 15 to 20° above the coolant due to the high thermal resistivity of the crystal-liquid nitrogen interface. Typical pulse thresholds at 77°K are 20 joules into an FT524 lamp. The threshold drops rapidly at lower temperatures, but is strongly dependent on the frequency separation between the narrow fluorescent line and the cavity modes. Measurements at 4.2°K are particularly difficult because of this effect. Continuous operation at 27°K has been obtained at electrical inputs to the tungsten lamp as low as 20 watts. Laser output consists of a continuous output modulated at 20 to 100 kHz, with spherical reflectors or a pulsed, on-off output with flat reflectors. With spherical reflectors, magnetic feedback can be applied to reduce the amplitude of the modulation to less than 10 percent. The same type of magnetic modulation can be used to obtain a series of output pulses phase locked to the modulating frequency. The modulating frequency can be varied from a few kHz up to almost a MHz. The most effective modulation was obtained with an inhomogeneous modulating magnetic field and with the laser axis parallel to the crystalline [100] direction. At low modulation frequencies and with high fields, quasi-Q- switched operation was obtained.Q-switching was also observed with an external rotating mirror, which gave a series of pulses of 20 ns rise time. These did not have the characteristic high power ofQ-switched pulses but peak powers of only a few tens of watts. This is assumed to be caused by the absorption of the metastable (5I7)level. The single-pass gain of a laser amplifier was measured; it corresponded to\\alpha=0.039cm-1."
"Two years ago at the Third Quantum Electronic Conference we showed that at low temperatures there were a large number of infrared transparent crystalline matrices. These solids can be doped with other ions, and we have recently found several far-infrared electronic transitions in both pure and doped materials."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of this periodical."
"Continuous second-harmonic generation of λ 2572 Å in KDP has been observed using the λ 5145 Å AII laser transition. Optimum phase matching between the harmonic and fundamental beams, normal to the optic axis, was obtained at -13.7°C. The dependence of harmonic power on crystal temperature and on the degree of focusing of the fundamental beam was measured and compared with the theory of Boyd and Kleinman. Calculations indicate that if the axial modes of the AII laser are AM phase locked, then ∼100 mW at λ 2572 Å can be obtained for ∼1.0 W at λ 5145 Å with crystal lengths of a few centimeters. Enhancements of average second-harmonic power of ∼30 have been observed resulting from phase locking of the modes."
"Single-pass gain has been measured for flowing CO2, CO2-N2, CO2-He, CO2-N2-He, and CO2-N2-H2mixes. The gain for CO2-N2mixes varies as d-0.9, wheredis the tube diameter. The diameter dependence of the gain is less pronounced for CO2- N2-He mixes; a peak gain of 4.7 dB/m was obtained in a 1/2 in diam tube. Fluorescence data indicate that the upper laser level population is saturated at 100 mA in all cases. The addition of He, H2, or O2depopulates the lower laser level; helium further increases the population of the upper laser level. The addition of CO increases the population of the upper laser level, probably by resonant transfer from the excited vibrational states of CO."
"The use of electron spin resonance for measurement of the ground state population (GSP) of Cr3+in a ruby rod during optical pumping is described. For a 7.7 cm long rod at 90°K and a mirror reflectance productR_{1}R_{2} > 0.08, the GSP at laser threshold was found to be 55 ± 5 percent in good agreement with theory and previous optical measurements. At room temperature, a limiting value of approximately 30 percent for the GSP was approached at high pump energies. Observations of the relativeR_{1}(3/2), R_{1}(1/2)thresholds at 90°K as a function of mirror reflectivity indicated that the2E excited state absorption cross section at the laser wavelength is less than5 \\times 10^{-21}cm2. Detection of total internal reflection oscillations in cooled ruby lasers from ESR observations is also described."
"Optical resonators and/or lens waveguides are \"unstable\" when they have divergent focusing properties such that they fall in the unstable region of the Fox and Li mode chart. Although such resonators have large diffraction losses, their large mode volume and good transverse-mode discrimination may nonetheless make them useful for high-gain diffraction-coupled laser oscillators. A purely geometrical mode analysis (valid for Fresnel numberN = \\infty) shows that the geometrical eigenmodes of an unstable system are spherical waves diverging from unique virtual centers. As Burch has noted, the higher-order transverse modes in the geometrical limit have the formu_{n}(x) = x^{n}with eigenvalues\\gamma_{n} = 1/M^{n+1/2}, whereMis the linear magnification of the spherical wave per period. The higher-order modes have nodes on-axis only, and there is substantial transverse-mode discrimination. More exact computer results for finiteNshow that the spherical-wave phase approximation remains very good even at very lowN, but the exact mode amplitudes become more complicated than the geometrical results. The exact mode loss versusNexhibits an interesting quasi-periodicity, withn = 0andn = 2mode degeneracy occurring at the loss peaks. Defining a new equivalent Fresnel number based on the actual spherical waves rather than plane waves shows that the loss peaks occur at integer values of Neqfor all values ofM."
"Normal modes are determined for a solid-state laser constructed with one Brewster angle face that incorporates a gyrotropic host crystal. It is shown that, depending on the amount of Faraday rotation down the length of the crystal, the modes may be either linearly or elliptically polarized. Values for reflection loss and resonant frequency are determined. These calculations may be used to determine optimum conditions for modulation of amplitude, polarization aspect, and frequency of the output of a YIG laser."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"Two types of spontaneous phase locking of the TEM00qmodes at 0.63μ have been observed for a mixed isotope tube (Ne20, Ne20). In both cases the mode locked laser output consisted of pulses which were less than 1 ns in duration. The pulse repetition frequencies werec/2Landc/Lfor the two types. Adjacent mode competition appears to play a role in determining which type occurs. The persistence of the self-locking was adversely affected by simultaneous 3.39μ oscillation. The mode power spectra for the self-locked configuration revealed a dip close to the center of the gain curve. The mode power spectra for the self-locked and the free-running situations were shifted to the high-frequency side of the gain profile, and for a mixed isotope tube this can be accounted for by an asymmetric gain curve. For a pure isotope tube (Ne20) only one type of self-locking was observed, and the power spectra for the self-locked and free-running configurations were shifted to the low-frequency side of the gain curve. On the basis of the experiments performed, it proved possible to calculate the magnitude of the third-order nonlinear susceptibility of the active medium at 0.63μ which, it is believed, was responsible for the spontaneous mode locking. The possibility of employing nonlinear crystals as passive mode locking devices was examined and it was found that the effect required for locking for a piece of deuterated KDP 3 cm in length and placed within the optical cavity was ∼ six orders of magnitude too small."
"The gain of theQ(1)vibrational stokes line of H2has been measured as a function of pressure in a Raman amplifier cell of variable length. The threshold power for stimulated emission of theQ(1)vibrational andS(1)rotational stokes line of H2has been measured in a transverse resonator as a function of pressure. Both geometries give results in good agreement with theory, without invoking any other nonlinear instabilities."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"Preliminary but relatively detailed measurements have been made of the short-term frequency or phase fluctuations of two short stable single-frequency 6328 Å He-Re lasers (Spectra-Physics Model 119). Both lasers were essentially free-running in a quiet stable environment, with no frequency-stabilization or temperature-control loops except for a slow AFC loop (one-half-second response time) which kept one laser frequency at a nominal 30-MHz spacing from the other by piezoelectric tuning. The random frequency fluctuations of the 30-MHz beat note between the lasers were measured in three ways: a) The power spectral density of the 30-MHz beat note (measured by slowly scanning an RF spectrum analyzer) was found to be accurately Gaussian, with a standard deviation\\sigma_{f} \\approx 8.1kHz. b) The mean-square accumulated phase jitter during an interval of length τ seconds (measured by a sampling technique) was found to vary as\\Delta\\Phi^{2}(\\tau) \\approx 0.96 \\times 10^{10} \\tau^{2} rad^{2}over the range100 \\leq \\tau \\leq 1200us. Less accurate measurements extending up to\\tau = 30\\mus indicated a slightly slower increase (\\sim \\tau^{4/3}) for longer times. c) The spectral density of the instantaneous beat frequency variations (measured by scanning the video output from a 30-MHz frequency discriminator with an audio wave analyzer) was found to vary asG_{\\phi}(f) \\approx 6.6 \\times 10^{8}/f^{2} rad^{2}.s down to at least 50 Hz and probably lower. These results, which are all qualitatively compatible, and quantitatively in agreement to within better than a factor of two, indicate random Gaussian perturbation of the laser's instantaneous frequency by internal or environmental disturbances (plasma noise, acoustic noise, etc.) that have not yet been clearly identified. By improving these characteristics somewhat, and operating one laser at a very much lower power level in order to enhance its quantum phase fluctuations, it appears feasible to measure the ultimate quantum frequency fluctuations caused by random walk of the oscillator phase under the influence of spontaneous emission."
"The continuous ruby laser is operated with an external mirror; a modulating crystal (KDP) and a Brewster plate as polarization switch are used in the inner beam path. Coupling of the axial laser modes occurs if the frequency of a voltage applied to the KDP crystal equalsc/2L(=30 MHz). Instead of assuming equal mode intensities, these intensities are calculated from the condition of a minimum of the total losses in the resonator. It is found that these intensities differ largely in their magnitudes. A curve calculated for six locked modes corresponds exactly to the measured emission curve. If a modulating frequency other than the frequency separationc/2Lbetween adjacent longitudinal modes is chosen, the effect of the modulation on the stored energy within the laser averages out. Nevertheless, the intensity coupled out at the Brewster plate is modulated according to the term(\\varphi_{1} + \\varphi_{0} \\cos\\Omega t)^{2}. Some results of this coupling modulation are presented."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of this periodical."
"In this paper we describe a mode-locked laser in terms of traveling pulses of light. We show that the energy absorbed by a saturable absorber is a minimum if the pulselength is a minimum, and that two pulses are essentially as favorable as one if they meet at the position of the dye cell. Under steady-state pulsing conditions, however, we show that the pulses will have a width which depends on their energy. We find that for parameters appropriate to present Nd: glass experiments, the expected length is about 10-11seconds, in agreement with observations. Finally, we demonstrate the rather surprising result that a linearly dispersive medium does not broaden the mode-locked laser pulses to first order."
"Atmospheric modulation noise in an optical heterodyne receiver, as measured by\\sigma^{2}_{M}the normalized variance of the signal power, and by\\langle(\\Delta f)^{2}\\rangle, the mean-square frequency spread of what would otherwise be a monochromatic signal, are evaluated in this paper. The analysis is based on the statistics of optical propagation in a randomly inhomogeneous medium and particularly on results for the wave-structure function. It is shown that to avoid a large signal-power variance, the receiver-collector diameter should be no larger than r0(r0is the diameter associated with saturation of receiver performance as measured by the average signal-to-noise ratio.) It is found that the rms frequency spread due to atmospheric effects is small enough that, even under worst conditions, it will not seriously affect the velocity resolution of an optical Doppler radar."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of this periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"Techniques for increasing the capacity of an opt,ical pulse code modulation (PCM) transmission system will be discussed and experimental results obtained from such a high capacity system will be presented. These techniques are based upon optically time multiplexing and demultiplexing, on a single light beam, a number of 224MHz optical PCM channels. "
"The work reported here is the result of the application of a modulation technique to the ring laser to improve its rotation beat frequency signal-to-noise ratio (SNR) and to extend the lower limit of rotation rate sensing. The present lower limit is caused by insufficient isolation between the oppositely directed light waves, causing them to lock in frequency. The modulation causes the light waves traveling in each direction to exist as pnlses. Control of the relative phasing of the pulses offers means to avoid locking which are not possible with CW operation."
"The multiple pass laser interferometer is an instrument made possible because of the extreme temporal coherence of gas lasers. The optical schematic is shown for a system with input and output plane waves which can be used to describe the basic principle and characteristics of this class of interferometers. A laser beam, adjusted for uniphase operation (TEM00 mode), passes through a collimator which adjusts the beam to the required size. Energy in the beam passes through high reflectance mirror M1. Two telescope systems situated between mirrors M1 and M2, image the two mirrors in coincidence at the object plane (entrance pupils of the telescopes). Beam energy leaves the system through M2 where \"read-out\" optics image the surface of M1 for viewing."
"Missile and aircraft testing facilities have always relied on manually operated tracking cameras to obtain close-up photographic coverage of test runs. As long as the apparent target motion is less than about 60 degrees per second, an experienced operator can follow the target reasonably well. However, at higher rates or during unexpected motions, his capability falls off rapidly. To obtain accurate photo coverage of high-speed missile tests, an automatic Iaser tracker has been developed for the missile development test track at Holloman Air Force Base. The tracker can follow a rocket sled traveling at Mach 6 at a closest approach of 1000 feet. At this speed, the equivalent peak angular target motion is about 380 degrees per second. The automatic lascr tracker combines an optical transmitter - receiver system and a camera platform on the same pedestal. The pedestal and the tracker electronics are mounted in a mobile van so that the system can be moved to the best location for a particldar test. The van also protects the equipment and operator from the weather and provides room €or maintenance and storage."
"Fagot lasers have been constructed by holding a nnmher of identical laser rods in cages consisting of blllkheads held together by tie rods. The bulkheads separate the rods to allow water flow between them and prevent them from saging or moving in translation or rotation. The fagot laser is then held in the usual laser cavity hardware in a similar manner to a solid cylindrical laser rod. The fagot configuration is motivated by the desire to operate glass laser systems at high average input power which can produce radial splitting of the rod due to the tangential stress caused by the cooling gradient from center to edge. Analysis shows that the fagot, laser can have substantially greater power handling capability than a solid rod of the same volume and length."
"In a study on the relation between HF susceptibility and cavity parameters a discussion of higher-order effects is included and demagnetizing effects of the HF field are dealt with. Final formulas are given for an ellipsoidal sample in a collinear region of the HF field and for arbitrary orientation of the HF field with respect to the static field. The relation between the eigenfrequency and the admittance of the cavity is deduced by means of an unusual but more direct formalism which exploits the Poynting vector as basic quantity."
"The spectral output of krypton filled flashtubes has been investigated and compared to that of xenon filled tubes. It was observed that although xenon has a higher luminous efficiency than krypton, the krypton output is 150 to 200 percent of the xenon output at 810 nanometers depending on the input energy level. The implication is that krypton is a more efficient pumping source for lasers with an absorption band in the region of 810 nanometers."
"Threshold current density of solution-grown GaAs laser diodes with a Fabry-Perot cavity were measured at 77 and 300°K by varying the acceptor concentration in thepregion Na. Threshold current density was lower in the series of diodes with larger values of Nathan in the series of diodes with smaller values of Nafor the diode length between 0.1 and 1 mm. Through these experiments diodes with the threshold current density as low as3 \\times10^{2}A/cm2at 77°K and2.8 \\times 10^{4}A/cm2at 300°K for the diode length of 1 mm, and as low as 103A/cm2at 77°K and4.5 \\times 10^{4}A/cm2at 300°K for the diode length of 0.1 mm were obtained."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of this periodical."
"The use ofp-njunctions,p-i-njunctions, metal semiconductor junctions, and heterojunctions as phase modulators is considered. The allowed modes of propagation through such junctions formed in both isotropic and uniaxial crystals are derived. The dependence of the propagation constant on the electric field is explicitly derived to yield the phase modulation properties of each structure, and the various structures are compared as high-frequency modulators. Heterojunction andp-i-njunction modulators are found to be superior top-njunction modulators. Metal semiconductor junctions are found to be too lossy in the visible, but become attractive in the infrared."
"Optically pumped, CW microwave masers were successfully demonstrated using CaF2and SrF2doped with divalent thulium as the impurity ion. The optical pumping method made use of the polarization properties of the broad absorption bands of Tm2+to selectively pump the ground state maser levels. Cavity masers were operated as oscillators at 1.4°K at frequencies from 9.2 to 18 GHz and at 9.2 GHz for temperatures of 4.2°K. The figure-of-merit of this material based on the gain bandwidth product is equivalent to that of the conventional maser materials, ruby and Cr3+(Fe3+) in rutile, at 10 GHz and 4.2°K but has a higher figure-of-merit above 10 GHz. This material can be used to make CW masers up to about 30 GHz. The limitation on tunability of this type of maser is restricted to the microwave circuit since no tuning of the pump frequency is required. The upper operating temperature based on reasonable pump powers is, for intrinsic reasons, 6°K. For higher operating temperatures or higher signal frequencies at helium temperatures, a new material must be found having properties similar to theFcenter in the alkali halides but being more stable and in a more desirable host."
"This laser bibliography compiled during the period from July through December 1966 contains 809 references which are divided into 27 categories and listed chronologically. Brief annotations are added to many references."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of this periodical."
"Experimental results on a number of ruby rods in concentric spherical cavities are presented and discussed. The observations include intensity variations (spiking) as a function of input energy, longitudinal and transverse mode structure, and output energy distribution. The characteristics of flat and concentric cavities are compared using the data presented. The spiking frequencies and decay times are compared with simple rate equation predictions during the quasi-CW time of operation with reasonable agreement. Results indicate that the cavity effects will be similar regardless of the type of laser material used."
"A review of spectroscopic properties of complex molecules is presented and used to show that a simple two-level scheme is inadequate to describe the optical bleaching of dye molecules. Experimental data are reported for the transmission of intense ruby laser radiation by several types of dyes. Rate equation analyses are carried out using steady-state solutions and iterative computer solutions; calculated bleaching curves are compared with our data for cryptocyanine. On these bases, we show that, in general, the optical bleaching process involves the removal of ground-state molecules to other states having smaller absorption cross sections at the exciting frequency, and that recovery of absorption at this frequency is characterized by a complex relaxation mechanism."
"The quantum theory of damping is presented and illustrated by means of a driven damped harmonic oscillator. The theory is formulated in the coherent state representation which illustrates very vividly the nearly classical nature of the problem. In this representation the reduced system density operator equation becomes a Fokker-Planck equation. Green's function solutions are found for the damped oscillator in closed form and as an eigenfunction expansion. In addition, a quantum regression theorem due to Lax is derived in the coherent state representation. The theorem allows two-time averages to be computed from one-time averages."
"The life expectancy of a sealed CO2laser tube depends, to a great extent, on the interaction of the molecules existing in the discharge at the cathode. The data reported here indicates that after operation of a sealed laser, only CO and O2are formed in concentrations comparable to the initial fill gases of CO2, N2, and He. The CO, CO2, and O2, in particular, were found to be completely adsorbed at the Ni cathode within several hundred hours of tube operation. A loss of 10.6 μm power output accompanied this adsorption. As expected, the process was reversible to a degree since the laser resumed operation at the initial power level after the cathode region had been heated to 300°C. This process of adsorption-desorption was repeated several times up to an accumulated operating time of 705 hours. During this time, the power output remained at a substantially constant value. However, the loss of CO2by carbon deposits ultimately means an end to tube life."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of this periodical."
"An arrangement that allows the generation of a single-frequency beam at the second harmonic is proposed. Essentially, frequency addition is performed of two signals that are frequency modulated with equal and opposite frequency excursion. For maximum efficiency, the modulator and the nonlinear crystal are arranged inside optical resonators for fundamental and harmonic frequencies."
"Experiments and approximate analysis are given for spherical aberration interference rings and for convection distortion arising in the thermal self-defocusing effects produced by laser beams passing through materials of finite loss. The importance of these thermal effects for moderate-power beams in materials of relatively low loss is stressed."
"Fluorescence from CO2molecules excited by transfer from heated nitrogen has been observed. Insofar as thermal excitation of nitrogen can be accomplished by chemical means, this process may be utilized to implement a chemically excited laser."
"A theoretical model that accounts for the experimentally observed features of the 5106-Å pulsed copper vapor laser has been devised. The electron excitation and ionization cross sections used in the theory were calculated by the use of the classical Gryzinski-type methods."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"High-frequency oscillation is often desired from a circuit consisting of a one-port negative-resistance element, e.g., a tunnel diode and a passive linear load. The designer must then choose a negative-resistance element capable of producing oscillation at the desired frequency. In this paper the question of frequency \"capability\" is investigated on the basis of the usual circuit model for a tunnel diode. Theoretical expressions for the maximum frequencies of quasi-harmonic oscillation with resistive loads and parallel-RC loads are derived. The method of analysis, utilizing impedance loci in the complex plane, leads logically to the discovery of loads that are superior to the parallel-RC load. Experimental data support the theoretical predictions."
"In this paper, we consider some nonlinear phenomena such as \"self-oscillation,\" \"synchronization,\" and \"asynchronous quenching\" in a distributed system. The system consists of a lossless transmission line terminated with a tunnel diode and a lumped parallel capacitance on one end. Such a system is governed by a partial differential equation (wave equation) and nonlinear boundary conditions. By introducing the d'Alembert solution of the wave equation, the equation describing the system is reduced to a nonlinear differential-difference equation. We have made a theoretical analysis of the above system following a nonlinear technique and obtained some interesting results. Also, we present examples of waveforms of self-oscillation obtained by computation and experiment, and show some experimental results which are in good agreement with the theoretical results."
"Positive real functions and matrices of several variables arose in the problem of synthesizing a passive network composed of lumped elements with variable parameters. The importance of these functions and matrices has recently been emphasized by the considerable attention concerning their application to the problem of synthesizing passive networks composed of noncommensurable transmission lines and lumped elements. The problem of synthesizing positive real functions and matrices of several variables has been discussed by several authors. However, the problem has not been solved generally, except for the two-variable lossless case and the case where a two-variable positive real function is prescribed as a bilinear function with respect to one of the two variables. In this paper, a general solution to the above synthesis problem is presented. It is shown that an arbitrarily prescribedn \\times npositive real matrix, symmetric or nonsymmetric, of several variables is realizable as the impedance or admittance matrix of a finite passive multivariable n-port. It is further shown that, if the matrix is symmetric, then it is realizable as a bilateral passiven-port. Related problems and discussions are also given."
"The time-domain behavior of the general nonuniform RC transmission line is presented. It is shown that the impulse response is a \"totally positive\" density function. The necessary and sufficient condition on a time function to be the impulse response of a nonuniform RC line is obtained. The general properties, including the bounds on the impulse response and its asymptotic behavior, are given."
"Properties of classical sensitivity functions in resistance-terminated LC two-ports are examined and utilized to study the effects of element variations, incidental dissipation, and stray terminations on transmission characteristics. The results show that phase lag in such networks increases monotonically with the magnitude of anyLorCas well as with frequency. Further, they enable the formulation of a number of bounds on errors in transmission characteristics induced by various parasitic phenomena, including the effects of nonuniformly distributed loss when inductors and capacitors have dissipation factors less than fixed constants\\bar{d}_L. and\\bar{d}_C, respectively. The bounds are invariant for all equivalent twoport realizations and demonstrate the limitations imposed on network sensitivity performance by design specifications."
"Maximally flat magnitude driving-point functions, in spite of easily visualized applications, appear to be less well known than the corresponding transfer functions of Butterworth and other types. This article describes a class of such maximally flat imittances of various order and demonstrates their positive real character. An application is mentioned in which the maximally flat impedance is used as an interstage to achieve a flat amplifier transfer impedance."
"The techniques of mathematical approximation theory are applied to the weighted Chebyshev approximation of general transfer functions, as well as loss and phase characteristics. Various methods are shown for implementing the Remez algorithm for rational approximants, and extensions of the existing approximation theory are provided for functionals of rational functions. As a result, explicit expressions are given for the approximation of the modulus of a transfer function or of loss, both with prescribed or arbitrary attenuation poles. Formulas are also included for the phase and phase-delay. These design techniques have been successfully applied to the synthesis of equalizers and simulators for complex systems. A design example illustrates the application of the process to the design of a video cable equalizer."
"Conditions are presented which are necessary and sufficient to ensure that the element-variable equations for networks of passive elements, independent sources, and dependent sources controlled by admittance currents and voltages have unique solutions. These require that the networks satisfy two types of constraints. The first is a restriction upon the source locations. The second requires that the transmittance relationships between dependent and controlling variables be independent of similar relationships imposed by the network in which the dependent sources are imbedded. These conditions are also necessary and sufficient when voltage sources controlled by open-circuit voltages or current sources controlled by short-circuit currents are considered. The conditions are sufficient but not necessary for networks containing voltage sources controlled by short-circuit currents or current sources controlled by open-circuit voltages."
"An RDS network contains positive resistors, ideal diodes, independent voltage sources, and independent current sources. This paper presents conditions which are necessary and sufficient for a driving-point characteristic and a transfer characteristic to be realizable by an RDS two-port terminated in a twoterminal RDS load. The sufficient conditions are established by showing how the desired two-port is constructed. The resulting network is a physically symmetric lattice. Additional necessary and sufficient conditions are found for the two-port to be grounded, and a procedure for realizing characteristics which satisfy these additional conditions is presented. Other network configurations which realize RDS driving-point and transfer functions are then considered. A simple method for determining the number of elements in the various configurations is developed. This number depends on the number and location of the breakpoints in the driving-point, transfer, and load characteristics, and can be determined without synthesizing the network."
"This paper deals with the stability of a second-order linear system whose dynamic behavior is governed by\\ddot{x}(t) + a(t)\\dot{x}(t) + b(t)x(t) = 0wherea(t)andb(t)are periodic functions which vary in rectangular form with respect to the timet. A generalized stability condition is derived and stability charts are shown as the relationship between system parameters. These stability charts are obtained by using a digital computer. A more precise stability chart is shown fora(t) = 0than those given hitherto in other reports."
"The ease and low cost of fabricating large numbers of transistors in microelectronic configurations make feasible the use of redundant active devices to achieve improved reliability and decreased sensitivity to parameter changes. This paper considers an amplifier configuration which has particular advantages for microcircuit realization. The arrangement described is capable of yielding a fractional gain change which is equal to the product of the fractional deviations in the gains of each of the redundant signal channels. The nominal input-output transmission is maintained, with negligible changes in gain and bandwidth, even with complete failure of one or more (but not all) of the signal channels; this is achieved at the expense of an increase in sensitivity. The sensitivity to large parameter changes can be minimized over an appreciable portion of the amplifier passband by use of the systematic design procedure which is presented. Experimental verification of theoretical predictions and a design procedure are included."
"This correspondence presents the computation of the envelope, phase angle, and instantaneous frequency response of a rectangular high-frequency pulse applied to the input of a multistage synchronous single-circuit amplifier. The general formulas for then-stage amplifier and the numerical results for the six-stage amplifier obtained by the use of a digital computer are given also for the case of detuning the signal frequency from the resonant frequency of the high-Qcircuits."
"Each reference is indexed with a Pcharacter code; for example, \"do63.\" The first two characters are the first two letters of the surname of the principal author, while the last two characters indicate directly the year of publication. For instance, a paper written by John Doe, and published in 1963, would be indexed under \"do63.\" If several papers fall under the same index code, a 5th character is added to differentiate them; for example, do63a, do63b, etc. It is hoped that this bibliography will serve as a useful guide to anyone seeking information regarding inductance simulation and gyrators."
"The technique of the conformal transformation is used in the design of RC bandpass filters. An elliptic-function transformation that transforms the complex-frequency plane into a rectangle is used. In the transformed plane, poles and zeros can be located to produce several useful bandpass characteristics. Key quantities, such as the passband ripple, the equal-ripple bandwidth, and the half-power bandwidth, of these filters can be calculated in terms of a few parameters in closed form. Some design charts are presented. Several design examples and experimental filters are given."
"Active elements may be used to significantly reduce the total reactance required in a network. This paper presents two active RC synthesis techniques for this purpose. One method employs a negative-impedance-converter to realize any number of system poles and reduces the total required capacitance to any desired extent. The resulting design is, however, very sensitive to active and passive parameter values. The second method also permits any prescribed total capacitance but employs a cascade of isolated second-degree sections. Two such sections are presented and optimized with respect to a figure of meritC_{t}AS_{A}, being the product of total capacitance, required active element gain and system sensitivity to the latter. System transmission zeros may be accommodated to a certain extent."
"This paper is concerned with the following problem: given two rational functionsZ_1(s)andZ_0(s), otherwise arbitrary but for whichR + Z_1(s)has no zeros in the right-half plane,Z_1(s)is to be realized as the driving-point impedance of a lossless coupling two-port terminated in the impedanceZ_0(s). This problem had been previously considered and solved by Schoeffler and by Wohlers whenZ_1(s)andZ_0(s)are positive real functions and the coupling network is reciprocal. Necessary and sufficient conditions are given here for realizability in the contemplated form when neither of the two impedances are necessarily positive real and when the coupling network may be reciprocal or nonreciprocal, but still lossless. A realization procedure is described and examples are given to illustrate the approach."
"Necessary and sufficient conditions for the realization of a short-circuited transfer admittance by means of a grounded\\overline{URC}network are presented. The approach used to determine the realizability conditions is similar to that employed in lumped transformerless networks but, in this case, the conditions upon realizability are directly related to the short-circuited transfer admittance (y_{12}), rather than the open-circuited voltage transfer ratio. Similarly, ify_{12}satisfies the realizability conditions, surplus factors may have to be used before synthesis can be performed. Finally, the procedure used in testing for realizability and synthesis is demonstrated by a nontrivial worked example."
"Resistance-capacitance ladder lowpass networks, to obtain a phase shift (\\phi) of 180° between the input and the output, are examined. It is found that there exists a theoretical maximum value ofQ, defined by\\omega_0/2 |d\\phi/d\\omega| \\omega = \\omega_0where\\omega_0is the frequency at which the phase shift is 180°. This theoretical limit can be approached in actual practice, but never reached. It is attempted to synthesize such networks having as high aQas possible. In addition, the resulting network possesses the property that the open-circuit input impedance and the short-circuit output admittance are simultaneously maximized. A transformation enables one to get the corresponding highpass structure from the lowpass."
"There are a number of applications of graph theory to the solutions of problems in electrical networks, switching circuits, and communication nets. These applications involve modeling a system by a graph and describing the properties of the system in terms of this corresponding graph. In this paper it is shown that a linear system can be modeled by a graph of unistors; that is, an oriented edge with flow proportional to the initial vertex. The solution of the system is then obtained by means of products of directed trees. There is no calculation of cofactors as an intermediate step, and no extra calculation to determine the sign of the solution. In order to achieve the result, the relationships between the directed trees forming a unistor graph and their associated incidence matrices are developed and techniques for calculating determinants and cofactors of linear systems by means of directed trees and directed 2-trees are given."
"A method of efficiently calculating the sensitivity functions of a single output variable with respect to all the parameters in a reciprocal network is described. The method reduces the problem of obtaining these sensitivity functions to the simple problem of solving one additional network easily derived from the given network. A distinct advantage of the method is that currently available digital computer network analysis programs can be used with little modification and calculation of the sensitivity functions. Next, the frequency dependence of the sensitivity of continuously equivalent networks is examined. The results of this study allows one to make three hypotheses about continuously equivalent networks. 1) The continuously equivalent network resulting from a minimization of the sum of the magnitudes squared of the sensitivity functions at a given frequency is the network with minimum sum of the magnitudes squared of the sensitivity function at all frequencies. 2) The sum of the magnitudes squared of the sensitivity functions decreases as the number of elements increases in continuously equivalent networks. 3) The sum of the sensitivity functions is invariant with respect to the various equivalent networks. The most important hypothesis is the first since if true for all continuously equivalent networks, then a great simplification of the computation problem results. Even if a limited class of continuously equivalent networks exhibit this property, then the result is worthwhile. Experimental results show that such a class does exist. These experimental results do not prove that all continuously equivalent networks have these three properties."
"This paper presents a simple but general method-the Iterative Piecewise Linear Method-suitable for the analysis and synthesis of multivalued memoryless nonlinear networks that may contain multivalued nonlinear resistors, controlled sources, ideal transformers, gyrators, negative impedance converters, etc. The method itself is an algorithm, and therefore it can be easily programmed in a computor. Part I, Analysis of Multivalued Memoryless Networks, considers the operating point problem and the determination of driving-point and transfer characteristic plots. Part II, Piecewise Linear Synthesis of dc Memoryless Nonlinear Networks, describes a simple procedure to synthesize a nonlinear lattice network having a prescribed driving point, and transfer as well as nonlinear load characteristics. An analytical procedure for realizing a nonlinear voltage divider with multivalued transfer characteristics is also given."
"The work of Lampard and Redman [5] on the statistical properties of the integral of a binary random process is generalized and extended to include more general ramplike random processesz(t). These ramplike processes are defined to be ramps of random slope that switch slope at random times. Both the intervals between switching times and the slopes of the ramp segments are assumed to be independent random variables. The general properties of the one-dimensional and multidimensional probability density functions ofz(t)are discussed. A Laplace transform technique is employed to obtain the Laplace transform of the characteristic function of these probability density functions in terms of the Laplace transform of the characteristic function of the ramp slopes multipled by the probability functions of the switching times. For Poisson switching times, these expressions are relatively compact. However, the inversion problem is formidable, and closed form results are presently available only for a binary slope probability density function (a previously known result). Due to the properties of characteristic functions, the moments ofz(t)are obtained by a single Laplace inversion of the derivative of the Laplace transform expressions. These moments may be used to characterize the probability density functions ofz(t)with a series expansion involving the Gaussian density function and its derivatives. Examples are given for the cases of Gaussian and rectangular slope probability density functions with Poisson switching times."
"A non-series-parallel synthesis procedure is introduced to realize a class of two-element-kind two-port symmetrical and bisymmetrical network function specifications. Necessary and sufficient conditions for the realizability of the network functions are given. The multiparameter sensitivities of the non-series-parallel realizations and their equivalent conventional realizations are discussed. In particular, RC ladder networks (series-parallel networks) are compared with respect to multiparameter sensitivity with non-series-parallel networks which realize the same network functions. It is shown that the new networks always have smaller values of multiparameter sensitivity than two classes of equivalent ladder networks for all frequencies. Numerical examples computed on the CDC 1604 and the IBM 7094 illustrate the method."
"A method of obtaining all directed circuits is presented by using a connection matrix. Also obtained is the number of directed paths of each length from any one vertex to another. Finally it is extended to the nonoriented case."
"Zadeh has shown that any self-dual network, fixed or linear time varying, is a constant resistance network. To date, the only known constant resistance networks with self-dual structures are the classical lattice and bridged-T networks. In this paper, we investigate the topological aspect of the problem, with the aim of obtaining new constant resistance network configurations. LetG_{\\rho}be a self-dual one-terminal-pair graph with respect to vertices (i, j), and with the degrees of (i, j) both equal to\\rho. It is proved that for\\rho \\geqq 2, G_\\rhocan be realized with8 \\rho - 11edges, but not with fewer edges, if the union ofG_\\rhoand an edge joining (i, j) is to be 3-connected. Using these graphs as the basis, a class of constant resistance networks are generated, which include the classical lattice and bridged-T networks as special cases for\\rho = 2. The generation of a constant resistance network for\\rho = 3is shown in detail, with a numerical example illustrating its application in transfer function synthesis."
"In this paper, parallel interconnection ofn-port networks without transformers is considered, and a necessary and sufficient condition is given, under which the short-circuit admittance matrix (Ymatrix) of the resultantn-port is equal to the sum ofYmatrices of the componentn-ports. The given condition applies to nonsingularn-port networks containing a finite number of linear, lumped, and reciprocal R, L, and C elements. A possible application of the results to the RLCn-port synthesis problem is indicated."
"Methods are presented to anticipate the effect of the coils parasitic capacitances in the implementation of broadband filters. The case of uniform parasitic capacitances leads to a process in some respect analogous to the classical predistortion theory for losses: the compensation problem can be solved by operating solely on the transmittance function. Limits of realizability, independent of the filter structure, have been found for the cases of finite terminations and short-circuited output. In the case of nonuniform capacitances, methods are described to generate equal shunt capacitances and to equalize the values of the inductances. A numerical example has been treated which allows a comparison of the various methods described."
"Recurrent ladders have received considerable attention in the literature. In the present paper, the matrix parameters of a recurrent ladder network with general series and shunt arms are derived in terms of a set of polynomials, which were first defined by Morgan-Voyce in his studies on the special case of a resistive ladder. [11] Since the polynomials are factorizable, the matrix parameters can be conveniently utilized to yield network response to any given excitation. Also, the zeros and poles of any network function may be found in terms of the zeros of these polynomials. For purposes of illustration, response to a square-wave input has been worked out in detail in the case of an RC ladder. The chief merit of the analysis lies in its simplicity and compactness."
"Methods for realization of an immittance whose argument is nearly constant at\\lambda \\pi/2, |\\lambda|< 1, over an extended frequency range, are discussed. In terms of the generalized complex frequency variables, these immittances are proportional tos^{\\lambda}, and as such they are approximations of Riemann-Louville fractional operators. First, we present a method which is applicable only for the special case|\\lambda| = \\frac{1}{2}. This is based on the continued fraction expansion (CFE) of the irrational driving-point function of a uniform distributed RC (U\\overline{RC}) network; the results are compared with those of earlier workers using lattice networks and rational function approximations. Next we discuss two methods applicable for any value of\\lambdabetween -1 and +1. One is based on the CFE of(1 + s^{\\pm 1})\\pm\\lambda; the two signs result in two different circuits which approximates^{-\\lambda}at low and high frequencies, respectively. The other method uses elliptic functions and results in an equiripple approximation of the constant-argument characteristic. In each method, the extent of approximation obtained by using a certain number of elements is determined by use of a digital computer. The results are given in the form of curves of\\omega_2/ \\omega_1versus the number of elements, where\\omega_2and\\omega_1, denote the upper and lower ends, respectively, of the frequency band over which the argument is constant to within a certain tolerance. From the lumped element networks, we derive some\\overline{RC}networks which can approximates_{\\lambda}more effectively than the lumped networks. The distributed structures can be fabricated in microminiature form using thin-film techniques, and should be more attractive from considerations of cost, size, and reliability."
"The existence of a Hamilton circuit in a tree graph was first proved by Cummins.[1] However, his proof is hard to apply to the generation of all the trees in a given graph. A new proof is given in this paper; it is straightforward and concise, and also constructive and applicable to the tree generation. The outline of a tree generation procedure is shown."
"Recurrence formulas for the numbers of trees, port terminal-pair 2-trees, and terminal 3-trees in a cascade of nonidentical 2-port networks are presented in this paper. They are derived from counting series which provide a clear insight, not apparent from the recurrence formulas themselves, into the composition of the various tree structures. These formulas and series reduce readily to the simpler forms which pertain when the networks in the cascade are identical, confirming certain recurrence formulas presented previously by Gruszczynski for this special case."
"A general class of transfer functions whose delay is constant at all frequencies and capable of realization by commensurate TEM microwave networks is presented. Examples of this class where the transducer power gain has equiripple behavior in the passband, the stopband, or both, are given. Forms suitable for lowpass or bandpass filters or broadband matching transformers are derived. The synthesis of networks to realize all of these functions is given in terms of closed formulas for the necessary roots. In general, microwave Brune, C, and D, sections are required in the realization."
"An exact method is presented to find transmission factors of transmission line filters which approximate a constant delay in a maximally flat sense. The class of filters considered is a doubly loaded arbitrary cascade of transmission lines and open- or short-circuited stubs in series or in shunt, all elements being of equal length and nondispersive. This includes a variety of transmission line filters:\\lambda/4transformers, distributed lowpass filters, stub filters of various configurations, interdigital filters, etc. Explicit expressions, valid for any ordernof the filter, are derived for the normalized transmission factor, and for its squared magnitude, and its phase on the imaginary axis. In addition, a table and design curves are provided for the casesn = 2, 3, 4, and 5 and an example is given to demonstrate their use."
"In this paper a method is presented for analyzing linear time-invariant networks containing a single sinusoidally varying capacitor. The method is based on difference equations, and yields an explicit expression for the steady-state response. Error bounds are given whenever approximations are made. A numerical example is included in order to compare the method presented with the Harmonic-Balance method."
"An exact expression for determining the form and stability of solutions of the second-order linear differential equation governing a simple tuned circuit with square-wave variable conductance is derived. This expression is numerically evaluated to provide mode and stability diagrams particularly relevant to applications where it is desired to generate oscillations which are phase-locked to an external signal and experimental verification of some of the data is given. Relative to nonlinear element approaches to the synthesis of phase-locked oscillators, the principal advantages of the present method would appear to be that the locking-range accuracy and the condition for oscillation do not rely upon a particular nonlinearity but, instead, on the extent to which a square wave can be generated. Depending on the application, one disadvantage may be that, in contrast to the results which have been obtained for previous special variation cases of Hill's equation, it is difficult to lock the oscillator frequency to an even integral multiple of one half the pump frequency."
"An attempt has been made to define exchangeable amplitude and phase noise powers for pumped nonlinear systems. The idea of cascading of linear lossless networks has been introduced for this purpose. Meaningful noise figures for the pumped nonlinear systems have been defined by comparing output parameters with source parameters. This definition of noise figures has the advantage that the figures thus defined are invariant to any further linear lossless transformations one may wish to use."
"A brief discussion of the Darlington pulse-forming network is followed by a theoretical study of the effects of a series inductance at the input terminals and a shunt capacitance at the output terminals on the shape of the pulse produced. A group of curves with normalized parameters are presented to illustrate how the rise, peak, and decay of a pulse for an idealized magnetron are affected."
"This paper presents a topological formulation of Liapunov stability conditions for linear and nonlinear time-varying RLC networks. In other words, Liapunov stability theorem for linear time-varying RLC networks obtained by Kuh is formulated in terms of the tree or chord-set products of the subnetworks derived from the state-space representation of the networks and the same approach is extended to the local stability of nonlinear time-varying RLC networks. The new formulation provides stability information or stability criteria in terms of network elements for linear and nonlinear time-varying RLC networks by inspection of the topology and network elements. The above formulation is illustrated in detail by the use of examples."
"A method for expandingn^{1/m}in a continued fraction is exposed, and an algorithm for the corresponding synthesis of resistive ladders is formulated. This method is compared to the three methods suggested by Kuo, two of which are restricted tom = 2."
"It is shown how simple, nonidentical transistor stages can be cascaded to give flat wideband responses and moderate gain while minimizing interstage interraction by purposely mismatching the impedance between stages. The interrelationship between gain and mismatch is discussed. Use of a grounded base amplifier with the conventional series feedback amplifier is considered. Experimental results are presented."
"Necessary and sufficient conditions are formulated for a real square unsymmetric matrix R to be the terminal capacity matrix of a directed communication net. These conditions lead to a practical set of realizability tests and are used to derive easily tested sufficient conditions for realizability. The sufficient conditions include several previously known realizability conditions as special cases and answer some hitherto unsolved problems concerning the range of applicability of a number of realization schemes."
"Relationships between the classical sensitivity functions in resistively terminated LCn-port networks and the reactive energy stored in each L or C under the harmonic excitation are discussed. The results show that the mean value of the energy stored in a reactive element can be expressed in terms of the imaginary parts of the sensitivity functions of the scattering parameters with respect to the element. Further, the modulus of the sensitivity function of a scattering parameter with respect to a reactive element is the geometric mean of two mean values of energy stored in the element in the forward and the backward transmission. Some additional remarks, especially on the analytical properties and upper bounds of the sensitivity functions of resistively terminated LC two-port networks, are described."
"The necessary and sufficient conditions are presented under which a multivariable impedance function may be realized by means of a cascade of passive, lumped, lossless, two-port networks connected by means of noncommensurate transmission lines and terminated in a positive resistor. Reference is also made to the particular case of a cascade of noncommensurate transmission lines with lumped, shunt capacitors at the junctions of adjacent lines."
"The class of lossless, nonuniform transmission lines having an absolutely continuous characteristic impedance is considered. It is shown that an integral representation for the solution of such a line is possible when the line is terminated in a matched load. The principal contribution of this paper is the derivation of a linear integral equation in the kernel function of this representation. It is shown that the solution to this integral equation constitutes a unique solution to the synthesis problem for lines of the class considered. Necessary and sufficient conditions for realizability are also given."
"This paper treats the Lagrange interpolation and stability properties of sampling expansions for bandlimited functions. It deals specifically with extensions of the uniform sampling expansion of Whittaker and Shannon. In general, sampling expansions of the Lagrange interpolation type for bandlimited signals exist for large classes of sampling sequences; however, such expansions are not necessarily stable in the sense that small corruptions in the amplitudes of sample values may not lead to small changes in the reconstructed function. The concept of a stable sampling expansion is defined. Two specific classes of nonuniform stable sampling expansions are considered. A well-known example of a sampling expansion which is not stable is given."
"In the increasingly sophisticated systems for space telecommand and communications, clearly phase and phase slope (time delay) are of crucial importance if there is not to be destruction or excessive distortion of the transmitted waveform through the system. Such advanced systems tend to outrun the state-of-the-art of the system components so that phase-compensation theory and techniques are necessary. A theory of passive phase compensation and a method of calculation of needed phase compensation in a given system are discussed. An analog computer is developed which quickly calculates the \"desired phase slope\" which, added to the given system, effectively \"corrects\" it. Digitalization of the method is indicated; a theory and method are worked out such that quick results can be obtained, even on a desk calculator. Finally, practical phase-compensation techniques are given, based on the theoretical considerations."
"In a previous paper,[1] the properties of high-Qresistance-capacitance (R-C) ladder structures having lowpass and highpass configurations were discussed. In this correspondence, bandpass and band-elimination structures are considered. These R-C structures are also expected to fulfill the following two conditions: 1) the factorQ = \\omega_{0}/2{\\cdot}d {\\phi}/dw|_{\\omega = \\omega \\c},(where\\phiis the phase shift between the input and the output, and\\omega_0is the frequency at which\\phi =180°) shall be a maximum possible; and 2) the open-circuit input impedance and the short-circuit output admittance shall be simultaneously maximized."
"It is claimed that several errors exist in the referenced paper, and that recent design practices differ from those recommended earlier. The author of the original paper, which appeared in IRE Trans. on Communications Systems, vol. CS-9, pp. 206-214, September 1961, replies."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"This paper describes a system which can conference up to several hundred 4-wire telephone circuits with sufficient return loss to prevent objectionable far-end echo effects. The causes and problems of echo in such connections are discussed, as well as the advantages and limitations of other methods used for correcting this situation. The method described uses a time-division echo treatment scheme with a simple common-bus conferencing technique. Each transmit line is sampled at the Nyquist rate during which time its corresponding receive line is disconnected from the bus for the duration of the sample time, thus eliminating the return path through the conference bus. To demonstrate feasibility, a working system is described which provides a return loss of at least 50 dB below transmission level when three out of a possible 20 4-wire lines are conferenced."
"Minimization of the error probability to determine optimum signals is often difficult to carry out. Consequently, several suboptimum performance measures that are easier than the error probability to evaluate and manipulate have been studied. In this partly tutorial paper, we compare the properties of an often used measure, the divergence, with a new measure that we have called the Bhattacharyya distance. This new distance measure is often easier to evaluate than the divergence. In the problems we have worked, it gives results that are at least as good as, and are often better, than those given by the divergence."
"Communication networks with fixed bandwidth and power allow digital systems to transmit more information per unit time than analog systems. Addressing and channel noise limit the performance of compressed digital systems over the constrained link."
"The modeling of an HF communication channel as a randomly time-varying linear filter has proved useful in the analysis of data transmission systems and in the study of ionospheric phenomena causing dispersive effects. Such a model may be evaluated by comparing properties determined experimentally with those based on the hypothesized model. By assuming that the channel output is a zero-mean Gaussian random process when a CW signal is transmitted, theoretical probability distributions have been derived for phase change and log-envelope change that reflect secondorder channel properties. These distributions depend upon the joint distribution of the original process at two instants in time and thus provide a more sensitive check on the hypothesized model than first-order properties. Experimentally measured phase-change, logenvelope-change, and envelope properties have been compared with those based upon the hypothesized model with close agreement. Estimates of correlation coefficient for specified lag times derived from the phase-change distributions agree well with estimates made from the power spectrum of the received signal (the second estimate is independent of the hypothesized channel model). The agreement of the experimental results with those based upon the zero-mean Gaussian model demonstrates the usefulness of that model."
"Sumary form only given, as follows. L.G. Abraham, late author of paper 19TP66-1103, entitled \"Reliability of Microwave Radio Relay Systems,\" which appeared on pp. 805-823 of the December, 1966, issue of these Transactions, requested that the following corrections be made. Under the section Sources of Outages, p. 808, second paragraph, the four main ways in which propagation outages might occur should be lettered a, b, c, and d instead of 1, 2, 3, and 4. On p. 811, in the third paragraph of the section Noise Distribution, the two mentions of Table IX(A) should read Table I(A). On p. 81S, in the notes to Table I (A), S-125 = -10 log r6 should read S - 25 = etc. In Table III, same page, the second footnote should read \"System outages, defined in Table II.\" The heading of Table X, p. 822, should read \"Computation of r3 for ... ,\" the heading for Table XI should read \"Computation of 13 = 128 (n-t)r3 . . . ,\" and the note to Table XII, p. 823, should refer to Table VI(A). The mention of Tables I(A) and I (B) in the last paragraph of the General section should be changed to Tables V(A) and V(B)."
"This paper describes how a natural gas transmission company improves operating efficiency and further increases its sales by the use of a process control computer, connected on-line to an existing telemetry system. The telemetry and instrumentation which is necessary for the on-line computer was installed as part of an overall automation program. Descriptions of the telemetry and instrumentation are included, together with a description of the computer system. The program and methods used to improve the operating economy by efficient utilization of the pipeline facilities are discussed. The existing on-line computer system has been operational since November, 1965."
"The transistorizing of buried dependent repeaters permits economical dc power feeding over long distances. With small diameter cables, the total cost of the system will be a minimum. By burying repeaters, it is possible to control the gain by ambient temperature. In spite of the compensation, a small residual equalization error cannot be avoided. Therefore, some pilot-regulated repeaters are provided. The regulators are of the memory type. The amplifiers are protected against overvoltages. In case of a fault, a dc fault location method is used if the power feeding is interrupted. If not, a pulse type fault location. method allows the identification of the faulty repeater section. Within the terminal repeaters, the adjustable equalizer compensates for the accumulated errors due to cable and equipment tolerances. In order to extract and inject signals, branching-off and blocking filters panels are provided. The line equipments meet the CCITT recommendations for highquality speech circuits. Additional customers' specifications, such as frequency response, level stability, overload characteristics, and noise performance are also met. Measured values of these characteristics are included."
"The fact that the signal received from a transiting object first rises and then falls in intensity can be used to detect the presence of such an object even though the signal emitted by the object and the background noise are otherwise indistinguishable. If the strength of the background noise is not known, detectability is reduced by the uncertainty in the noise level; however, means can be incorporated in the detector to estimate the noise level. If this is done, and if the background noise can be assumed to be stationary, then the effect of the noise uncertainty can be made as small as desired. In practice, the background noise is not stationary, and therefore the improvement in detectability that can be realized by estimating the noise level depends on the length of time that the noise can be assumed to be essentially stationary."
"The factors which enter into digital communication over a pseudonoise tracking link are developed. The deterioration of tracking quality due to simultaneous use of the tracking link for communication is shown to be small. The communication bit error probability is shown to be the same as that for coherent phase shift keying of a sine wave carrier when the tracking link uses biphase carrier modulation and the receiver uses balanced demodulators. In addition, the pseudonoise link supplies the necessary data bit synchronization. Experimental results are presented from laboratory equipment where data rates up to 47 000 b/s were transmitted over a pseudonoise tracking signal suitable for high accuracy range measurement to 3300 km."
"As tourism, traffic, and the economy weld Western Europe more closely together, international telephone traffic has been increasing at a steady rate. Twenty-six administrations or operating agencies in 17 countries maintain a telephone network in which almost every technical concept has found application. This paper points up the differences between the various European systems, especially in the perspective of international subscriber dialing. Recent years have seen the emergence of a top-level, transitsuited network of uniform technical design, as recommended by the CCITT (The International Telephone and Telegraph Consultative Committee). This makes it possible to establish international connections in all directions with a minimum of adapting equipment. Although this network is suited for automatic traffic, it was started with semi-automatic switching. Subscriber trunk dialing began between bilaterally coordinated systems capable of use for terminal traffic as envisaged by the CCITT. Also described is the equipment used for international and intercontinental traffic by the German Federal Post Office."
"A general representation of waiting time distributions in a single server system is developed from elementary probability considerations. Some of the classical delay distributions are then derived from this result, after suitable assumptions have been made."
"A set of equations is derived which permits the calculation of the figure of merit for a communications channel in which a binary error correcting code is used in conjunction with correlation decoding at the receiver. The figure of merit is expressed in terms of the required probability of error and the parameters of the code. These equations are then used to determine the figure of merit for a number of systems using error correcting codes. In particular, a comparison is made between those systems which use orthogonal codes, and a class of systems using codes for which the ratio of bandwidth to information rate is equal to two."
"Programming for shared real-time systems presents problems not normally encountered in conventional computer applications. Interaction among programs of various interrupt levels must be controlled, effects of hardware and software errors must be localized, and processing handling capacity must be maximized through proper task scheduling. The methods used for handling such problems in the Bell System's No. 1 Electronic Switching System (No. 1 ESS) which is such a shared real-time system are the subject of this paper."
"This paper is concerned with the calculation of the probability of character error and comparison of coherent,m-ary, digital communication systems operating in impulsive noise environments. The receiver is assumed to be a maximum likelihood detector for white, Gaussian interference and therefore has the form of a parallel bank of matched filters followed by decision circuitry. By employing a Poisson or generalized shot noise model for the impulsive noise, a closed form expression for the joint characteristic function of the noise components of the matched filter outputs may be obtained. The characteristic function depends on the parametervTwherevis the average number of noise impulses occurring per second andTis the signal duration. Approximate results for the error probability are obtained by taking this parameter to be either very small or very large. Experimental measurements of the error probability are presented and compared with theory. Comparisons of various modulation schemes are made under the constraints of equal rate and equal bandwidth. These comparisons show that the detrimental effects of impulsive noise can be combatted by representing the transmitted data as sums of orthonormal functions, thereby allowing the signal duration to be made very long in comparison with the noise impulse durations without an appreciable increase in bandwidth or decrease in transmitter rate."
"The approximation to tile normal law of the error transition probability for a correlation receiver preceded by a wideband hard limiter is reviewed. As is well known, the correlator output is asymptotically normal. This circumstance, however, is in general no justification for computing an error probability with the use of the complimentary error function. A binary message alphabet is assumed and the probability that the correlator output is positive (negative), given the transmission of a negative (positive) message bit, is examined with Chernoff bounding techniques as refined by Shannon and Gallagher. This method avoids the usual objections raised to the Edgeworth series when used to compute an error probability. Subject to restrictions of weak carrier-to-noise ratios at the limiter input and sufficient correlator processing gain that the error rate will be less than 10-2, the conclusion reached is that the error probability can indeed be computed, to within the accuracy of the mathematical idealization of the real channel, with the use of the complimentary error function; that is to say as if the correlator output were indeed normal."
"The combined use of time-domain waveforms, detection probability, and false-alarm probability as criteria for selecting a sample period and quantization interval which minimizes bit rate is illustrated. This is contrasted with the frequencydomain concepts and mean-square error criteria usually employed in telemetry to choose sample period and quantization interval. The method is applied to a sampled-data alarm system defined in the paper. Its essence is to choose a quantization interval which provides, at minimum bit rate, a prescribed number of nonzero samples following the receipt of an impulse input of specified strength, while maintaining preset detection and false alarm probabilities. The effect of noise on optimum choice is considered. The methodology is flow-charted in detail sufficient that the technique may be applied to other problems."
"Failure-correction decoding (FCD) is a decoding method that improves the performance of error-correction block codes by using reliability estimates of the received digit decisions. The FCD logic producesFfailures by erasing theFdigits of a received code character that are most probably in error. Since the numberFis the code's erasure-correction capability, the decoding is always possible and will yield a correct character if the failures include all errors. FCD operation is evaluated for short block codes and the Rayleigh-fading, the Gaussian-noise, and the atmospheric-noise channels. Significantly lower error probabilities, in comparison to error-correction decoding, are obtained for the Rayleigh-fading and the atmospheric-noise channels, but only minor improvement is obtained for the Gaussian-noise channel. The optimum failure-selection criterion for the fast Rayeligh-fading channel and noncoherent detection is to select as failures theFdigits with the least difference between the squared-envelope amplitudes from the two matched-filter outputs. For the atmospheric-noise channel, a good failure-selection criterion is to choose theFdigits with the largest noise-envelope amplitude as measured in an adjacent frequency band."
"In a random access communication system, the number of calls in progress at any instant of time is a random variable. For centralized systems with blocking, such as the switched telephone system, the assumption of a binomial distribution for this variate is often valid. For a decentralized, nonblocking discrete address system, in which a channel between any two idle parties always exists, it is not valid. In this paper the appropriate distribution is derived."
"This paper discusses the means whereby the distribution grade and bias ratings of trunk circuits can be determined by trunk group, central office, division, area, and finally the entire company through use of a digital computer. The original data can be acquired manually or by means of an automatic trunk routiner which provides readout. Several aspects as to how the final results can be used by various departments in the telephone company to improve service are delineated."
"Data recording in a research environment often results in the recording of much redundant data due to the unpredictable nature of most experiments. Data measuring instruments often malfunction, making their data invalid. Data processing efficiency can be increased if the experimental engineer can make judgments at editing time which control the processing and eliminate much of the redundant data and provide substitutions for the invalid data. A small digital computer, coupled with a digital display, light pen, and typewriter, has been programmed to provide an editing station for the experimenter to evaluate his data for processing."
"The performances of the optimum and several suboptimum feedback functions for sequential binary communication systems with a feedback link are evaluated and compared in terms of the error probability vs. normalized transmission rate characteristic. Evaluation is also made of nonsequential systems with optimum feedback functions. It is shown that the power advantage attained by the optimum system can be achieved without considerable loss by the suboptimum feedback functions."
"An error rate expression for a canonic binary receiver operating over channels that are characterized by both a nonfading component and a selectively fading random component and additive Gaussian noise is derived. The canonic receiver consists ofLindependent diversity branches. Most practical binary receivers for FSK, noisy-reference PSK, such as for example, DPSK, pilottone PSK, etc., are special cases of the canonic receiver. The results are applied to evaluate performance of incoherent detection of orthogonal FSK transmission over the HF channel that includes time and frequency selective fading and a nonfading component. The effect of intersymbol interference is also considered. The irreducible error rate for typical values of multipath and fading rates are illustrated for no diversity and dual diversity reception."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"H. Voelcker, author of the above-named paper which appeared on pp. 22-30 of the February, 1966, issue of this Transactions, has requested that the following corrections be made: The left-hand side of (14), which is missing in the published version, should be Susb(f). Readers should note that the singular points |f| = F0 are omitted in (14), mainly to avoid mathematical clutter. Equation (17) should read |S0(f)| = |S(f)|, η = 0."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"The phase locked loop is often used in lieu of an FM discriminator because of its threshold extension capabilities. In many applications, such as in communication satellites, not only is a low threshold required, but also a high SNR. CCIR recommendations suggest an output SNR of more than 40 dB. At this output SNR the intermodulation distortion present in a phase locked loop becomes very important. This paper discusses the intermodulation distortion present in a phase locked loop and determines the effect of the system parameters on this IM distortion. One of the main purposes of the paper is to show that, in order to decrease the IM distortion, the ratio of input frequency deviation to the loop gain of the phase locked loop should be decreased. Experimental results verified the proposed theory. The IM distortion was less than -44 dB when the frequency deviation to loop gain ratio was less than 0.057 (for the test model)."
"An application of a ferrite core variable inductance is illustrated in an active amplifier feedback circuit. By this means a lock-on response of the amplifier to a drifting operating frequency was obtained over a wide bandwidth (62-82kHz when tuned to a 75-kHz carder). Without a full analysis of the dynamics of feedback control systems incorporating semi-saturated ferrite cores available only the results of some initial experiments are given."
"It is common practice in the operation of mobile radio systems to identify each channel once during every half hour unless it is in constant use during that period. This practice is prompted by Part 21.213 of the Federal Communications Commission rules. When an operator or dispatcher is involved in handling calls, there is no difficulty in administering this practice. A proposed method for this identification in automatic systems with no operators introduces the possibility of not identifying all channels during the specified time interval. A probability analysis was performed for independently loaded channels and for multiple access channels; this analysis allows one to evaluate the probability of successfully identifying all the mobile radio channels."
"This paper addresses itself to the problem of adding a high-speed graphic, supergroup bandwidth data channel to an existing message loaded baseband. The complete results of a numerical approach obtained by use of a digital computer are presented, as well as practical design curves developed to assist system planners in calculating peak-to-rms factors and rms value of composite, data-plus-message, baseband loading. The analysis deals with one facsimile supergroup added to an existing microwave telecommunication system."
"This paper presents an approach to the determination of modulation indexes for 2-channel, phase coherent communication systems (of the Mariner type). The method is based upon a mean-squared error criterion and can be used to apportion the total transmitter power between the carrier signal, the modulated data subcarrier, and the modulated sync subcarrier. Further, a method is given which enables the communications engineer to determine the system data rate which will yield a predetermined bit-error probability. The method takes into consideration errors due to radio-frequency carrier phase jitter, subcarrier reference phase jitter, and jitter about the instants in time with which the modulation may change states. The results are useful for designing coherent communication systems for space applications."
"This paper describes a convolutional encoder for generating tree codes whose distinct codewords are orthogonal over the constraint length of the code. The performance of this class of codes is analyzed and the error probability is shown to decrease exponentially with the energy-to-noise ratio over the constraint length period of the code. The performance is compared with wellknown results for orthogonal block codes and shown to be considerably superior to the latter. Asymptotic results are also obtained which coincide with results for the class of very noisy memoryless channels."
"Preliminary thoughts on the effect a shift in demand type from voice to video bandwidths may have on international communications are presented. Given that a demand may evolve for point to point video, or high capacity data transmission, some potential impacts on technological implementation of transmission means are raised and their possible effects on industry structure mentioned."
"The reduction of experimental data to histograms is often useful, particularly if the experimental site is remote (e.g., in a spacecraft). An implementation utilizing prefix coding is described which permits assembling anN-sample,K-cell histogram directly from sequentially received data with minimal logic and memory requirements. The necessary storage is shown to differ from the minimum number of bits required for unique specification of an (N, K) histogram by less than3/4 KwhenN \\gg K. The method codes the contents, denoted byn, of a cell into a binary code word of lengthf(n). A minimax theorem is presented to justify selectingf(n)from a class of linear staircase functions, and the best such function satisfying the Kraft inequality is determined. Graphs are presented of the resulting storage requirements."
"A rapid means of analyzing linear networks containing a periodically operated switch is presented. It is assumed that the switch closure time is very short compared to the network time constants and the switching period. The method is based on obtaining an approximation for the pulse transfer function (ptf) of an arbitrary minimum reactance impedance by approximating the real part of the impedance as a sum of triangular elemental real part impedances. The approximate ptf is used in the analysis of a specific resonant transfer filter and the transmission response is computed. The approximate result is compared with the result based on more exact calculations. A table of normalized values for the ptf corresponding to elemental triangles is included so that the approximation can be used generally for other applications."
"It is clear that today, with the rapidly growing volume and importance of international message telephone traffic, the rapid increase in international customer-to-customer record services, and the great improvements in quality and quantity of transmission available in wideband cables and satellites, the organizational structure and philosophies of operation of the past are not optimum for the 1960's and 1970's. The Executive Branch and the US Federal Communications Commission (FCC) have just completed a study of the subject. A report has been submitted by the Intragovernmental Committee on International Telecommunications to the Commerce Committees of the Congress. In the conduct of this study the Government contracted with Stanford Research Institute (SRI) to assemble much of the factual background data, summarize the information, make extensive analyses, and draw certain conclusions. The following group of papers draws on that study and other background information to describe certain situations of the United States' overseas carriers and to present some techniques developed and analyses conducted during this extensive study. It is not the purpose of these papers to draw conclusions or to discuss the findings and conclusions of the SRI study or the recommendations of the Intragovernmental Committee's report but to present some of the background facts and analyses which are germane to understanding the current state of United States overseas communications and charting its future."
"Low space requirements, ease of installation, highswitching speed, nominal maintenance requirements, and highly automated production are demands imposed on modem exchanges. The crosspoint system developed by Siemens AG has been specially designed to meet these requirements. Since most teleprinter exchanges are rated for a capacity of less than 100 subscribers, the first embodiment of the system principle is a subdistrict exchange catering to 50 subscribers and permitting expansion for a total of 400 subscribers. One version of district exchange intended for major switching applications is engineered as a transit exchange with trunk lines only."
"With the aid of a new automatic number identification (ANI) system, direct distance dialing (DDD) is being provided to telephone customers served by small step-by-step offices. This paper describes this new system designated ANI Type-C. Electronic and electromechanical techniques are used with glow lamps serving as major circuit elements. A brief review of previous ANI developments is also included."
"As part of a research program on the time- and frequency-dispersive characteristics of ionospheric radio propagation, techniques were developed for precise measurement of the power spectrum of a received CW signal. Frequency resolution of 0.025 Hz is obtained. This resolution allows the observation of the various propagating modes and, with the aid of oblique-incidence ionograms taken simultaneously, identification of the modes. Occasionally, even the ordinary and extraordinary components of the wave can be separated and identified. Power spectra were derived from measurements made on a midlatitude path and on a transauroral path over a period of one year near the solar cycle minimum. In addition to the plotting of the power spectra, the root-mean-square widths of the spectra (defined as the frequency spread) and the means (or average Doppler shift) were computed. Distributions of these data are presented, and the frequency spread is compared with the magnetic activity, the timedelay spread, and the number of modes."
"The engineering of modern day subscriber's loop plant is discussed with particular emphasis on the use of fine gauge cables (26 to 22 gauge). Improved signaling limits of 1700 ohms dc outside plant resistance are employed; in conjunction with 48volt booster power supply, reliable signaling is assured well up to 4000 ohms. The loops are transmission engineered for D-66 loading and the new fixed gain voice repeater. The transmission performance is thoroughly discussed. The design procedure affords economical gauge selection, excellent transmission and elimination of telephone transmitter current supply loss, capability for immediate conversion to touchtone telephone operation and data transmission. The design-by-loss method is used throughout, and no transmission computations are required."
"Office balance, as applied to the toll telephone network, can be divided into two major divisions, those of through and terminal balance. Through balance concerns the connection of one 4-wire intertoll trunk with another, switched on a 2-wire basis. Terminal balance is required for the interconnection of an intertoll trunk with a toll connecting trunk to the subscriber's central office. Because of the extent of private networks presently being engineered, it is necessary to balance the interconnection of calls within these networks. This paper is concerned with the basic principles of through and terminal balance, but primarily centers on terminal balance in the private and DDD networks, because that is the area of the majority of engineering problems."
"For a suitable mathematical model of a logarithmic IF amplifier the signal suppression and intermodulation due to a second signal are found in closed form for a variety of cases. When at least one of the inputs is very strong the results agree with those for ideal limiting. In an appendix the assumptions underlying the mathematical model are examined. The approach presented is applicable to any bandpass nonlinearity."
"The paper illustrates a straightforward approach to the design of digital multiplexes. The approach allows digital communication systems of various speeds to be readily interconnected to form a large scale digital network. A small fraction of the transmitted bits are reserved for housekeeping or network control functions. Special attention is focused on the fraction of transmitted bits that must be reserved as a function of network parameters. It is shown that good performance in a 3-speed network utilizing unlocked clocks can be obtained if two to three percent of the transmitted bits are devoted to network control (framing and synchronization)."
"This paper is concerned with the establishment of standard methods of analysis for the determination of the capacity of a computerized message switching center to process traffic. It presents a standard method for measuring the processing capacity of a message switching center by determining the number of processor instructions available in the center to process a message character. This quantity is then compared to the number of instructions required to process a message character through the center."
"A finite time delay may often be associated with each branch in a communication network. That is, a given length of time is required for a flow to traverse each branch. In this paper, this model is described by a set of discrete input-output state equations. Conditions for the network to behave conservatively (in the sense that flow is neither created nor destroyed) are derived. The special case of linear state equations is examined, and asymptotic properties of flow and a transfer function are given. The idea of satisfying demands at the stations of the net is related to state reachability. Bounded input systems and an example of a time-varying linear system are also considered."
"Comparative economics of satellites and submarine cables were established by studying eight countries where the foreign carrier was presumed to have a choice of either medium for extending its communications facilities. The conclusion is that both satellites and submarine cables are very profitable to the user. The differences in profitability of the two media are not very large, and in most cases favor satellites by a small margin. In general, the annual cost of cables is smaller, but satellites bring in more revenue. When clear economic advantages are absent, other criteria for choice will emerge. For operational reasons-flexibility, reliability, and avoidance of long time delay-a combination of satellite and cable connections is preferable and likely to continue."
"The paper discusses several major perturbations in the U.S. owned international telecommunications industry which have arisen as a result of rapid technological progress. The impact on the industry of the introduction of wideband submarine cables and of the enactment of the Comsat Act are discussed. The problems that the industry faces in the areas of technology, policies and objectives, and organization and operation are analyzed. The underlying conflicts and the various aspects of competition and monopoly within the industry are also considered. The paper concludes that the U. S. international telecommunications industry as presently structured cannot fully and effectively respond to the requirements of the rapidly changing environment in which it operates."
"The AN/GSC-10 (KATHRYN) is a new modem equipment for digital data transmission on HF radio circuits. Its unique modulation technique provides a wide range of signal redundancy and data rate to allow optimum performance over the correspondingly wide range of propagation conditions characteristic of HF radio. Efficient detection is achieved at all levels of redundancy by utilizing a fully coherent correlation detection technique. The detector is a continually self-adjusting matched filter to the timevarying ionospheric transfer function. The fine grain propagation data derived for detection allow continuous observation of parameters such as multipath delay and coherence time. As a variable data rate modem with channel measurement capabilities, it can serve in future fully adaptive communication nets."
"Utilizing the new tool of frame storage of PCM encoded television pictures, a new technique for reducing the bandwidth requirements for transmission is described. The method involves the use of the high directional correlation inherent in picture point samples of the same frame, as well as frame to frame correlation. Using the procedures developed in the paper, a block diagram of a transmitter and receiver utilizing such a principle is illustrated and discussed. It is also shown how this technique improves on that of both simple and modified differential PCM encoding for television transmission."
"From the viewpoint of better utilization of synchronization information in suppressed carrier VSB (vestigial sideband) television signals, various carrier regeneration and phase tracking systems are examined. Two APC (automatic phase control) systems with improved utilization of synchronous information are discussed further with emphasis placed on their precision phase tracking and carrier regeneration characteristics. Test models of both systems have obtained a carrier phase accuracy of ± 0.5 degree, which permits color television transmission over a chain of long haul links. Practical utilization of the first system, which employs an approximateBSB(both sidebands) component is featured by the use of a variable parameter phase tracking control loop system which attains a stable, high sensitivity. To satisfy stability, sensitivity, and practical requirements, a second-order variable parameter astatic zero tracking system has been adopted. Response of the test equipment to a typical picture has been analyzed, and the theoretical results have been verified by experiment. If the sensitivity parameter is fixed, the first system becomes the phase tracking circuitry of the second system. This is a carrier reproducing system which uses time band filtering, sampling, and which must fully utilize trisynchronization (V- and H-synch and blanking) information to secure the start and continuance of sampling. Its carrier regeneration system features the use of a self-holding gate which synchronously gates by using the natural and horizontal synchronous periods and not regating for a certain fixed time period. The stationary and starting transient responses of this system are discussed and its reliable starting verified through experimentation. It has been found to be effective with an ECR (excess carrier ratio) of 0.5. A phase tracking method similar to that in the first system was used."
"The response of an FM discriminator to a fading FM signal in additive Gaussian noise is obtained. The technique employed is based on the model of an FM discriminator proposed by Rice and extends his results of SNR (above, at, and below threshold) to the fading environment. While the technique employed is quite general, examples considering Rayleigh fading, and sinusoidal and Gaussian modulation are given. The use of diversity to combat threshold degradation is studied and the threshold of a discriminator using predetection combining diversity is found. Experimental results are shown to verity the theory."
"This paper reports on a study of future demand for international telecommunications. The study was performed for the Intragovernmental Committee on International Telecommunications. The paper is devoted to the projections of future demand for U.S.-overseas telecommunication facilities. All services are considered: telephone, telex, public message service (PMS), lease, etc. The basic data and methodology are discussed. Projections of U.S. Government demand (DoD and NASA primarily) and the implications of the planned system changes of the Defense Communication System (DCS) are also included."
"Summary form only given. R.E. Ziemer, author of the above paper (19TP 67-904), which appeared on pp. 32-44 of the February, 1967, issue of this Transactions, has requested that the following corrections be made. The integral appearing in (31) should have a minus sign in the exponent of the integrand. Under the section entitled Results, p. 40, the seventh line of the first column is amended. Equation (77) should have a factor of ρ in the integrand. The second exponential on the right-hand side of (78) is corrected. In (81) and (82) the (p/k) should be changed to the binomial coefficient. Equation (85) should have a factor of ρ inserted in the argument of the first Bessel function in the integrand."
"It is claimed that the referenced paper does not completely analyze the differences between circuit and message type switching systems in regard to amount of buffer storage required. The authors of the original paper, which appeared in IEEE Trans. on Communication Technology, Vol. COM-14, pp. 756-762, reply."
"The Communication Technology Group mourns the loss of one of its outstanding members whose leadership was largely responsible for the existence of the Group as it is organized today. On January 19, 1967, Leonard G. Abraham succumbed to a heart nttack in Ottawa, Canada."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"The TRANSACTIONS Editor replies to an inquiry regarding Communication Technology Group policies on publication of papers that have already been published elsewhere. The object is to provide ComTech members with important current developments in the communications art even though some apparent overlapping of publication may occur."
"The digital transmission performance of a transportable troposcatter station is evaluated as a function of path length. Equipment parameters are chosen to be representative of a compact full-scale terminal capable of serving a major switching facility. While error rate evaluations for troposcatter transmission have been made previously, they have generally corresponded to the conditions of specific systems. Here, a reasonable path model and set of transmission parameters, thought to be representative of practical situations, have been chosen to allow performance evaluations to be made over the full gamut of range, propagation frequency, and bit rate conditions that are of interest. The two modes of digital transmission considered are direct-carrier modulation and subcarrier modulation within an FDM-FM baseband. The error-rate estimates finally determined reflect error contributions from all causes, with enhancement achieved from diversity operation."
"This article shows that the expected first-slip time of a phase-locked loop of arbitrary order can be found as the solution of a first-order linear differential equation, to which formal solutions are easily written. Computation of an exact solution involves being able to evaluate a certain conditional expectation which, for the first-order loop, is readily done and yields the exact known result. For higher order loops, an approximate evaluation of the expectation is presented and compared with experimentally obtained data of the secondorder loop. The first-slip time based on this approximation also compares favorably with measured times."
"This paper describes a technique for analyzing the statistical behavior of a two-way communication system with transmission delay(D). Messages are transmitted and received by means of servers located at the terminal stations. IfD > 0, each server is uncertain of the present state of the other, and may initiate transmission when the other has already begun to transmit, thus causing message interference. Interference is measured as the amount of one server's transmission which arrives at the other server when it is already transmitting. The relationship between the size of the delay and the amount of interference is studied here, as well as other quantities that describe the system behavior. The exact solution is available only forD = 0, but an approximate solution is found for very smallDwith respect to the lengths of idle periods of the servers, and the asymptotic solution is obtainable for very longD. The particular communication system analyzed is a very simple one, but the mathematical technique of handling the delay can be applied to more elaborate systems."
"The Lunar Orbiter is an unmanned lunar reconnaissance satellite which takes high-resolution photographs of large areas of the lunar surface to assist in selecting a landing site for Apollo. Because of various mission aspects and the fact that the Orbiter employs a film-type camera, the requirements placed on the telecommunications system are different from those of previous U. S. spacecraft. This paper describes the design of both the spacecraft and ground equipment of the Lunar Orbiter telecommunications system. Some of the unique features of the design include the use of vestigial sideband modulation for transmission of the picture data, a full-verification command system, a low-gain antenna system whose pattern approaches that of an isotropic radiator over a large portion of the radiation sphere, and a dual-power-level transmission system which does not use RF switching. Included in the paper is a link-design chart which shows the SNRs and performance margins obtained for all operating modes."
"This paper describes a unique laboratory facility which has been set up for automated evaluation of digital communication systems. This facility contains a large scale, stored-program communication processor interconnected to a number of experimental transmitting and receiving sites and telephone transmission facilities. By interconnecting the processor and the communication facilities to experimental digital devices, it is possible to quickly perform real-time, on-line evaluation of these equipments. The stored-program processor generates the necessary test messages, analyzes transmission errors and prints out results on a continuous basis during a given test. Facilities are available for simultaneous evaluation of several equipments and transmission links operating in tandem combinations to form a communication system."
"Error-pattern data gathered from an operational HF digital data transmission system are shown to have characteristics which permit their direct classification into predominantly burst-, random-, and periodic-error categories. These data are useful in a proposed method for effectively evaluating and designing forward error detection and correction devices using interleaving and block error-correcting codes. The method is based on the strategy of transforming channel burst error patterns into easily corrected randomly distributed errors. The measure of randomness of observed errors is established by comparison with distributions of known randomerror data derived from a computer program simulation. A valid method is established which permits the quantitative evaluation of interleaver performance in terms of effective randomization of burst error patterns."
"This paper describes a number of new techniques for data processing in a message switching center that will improve system reliability and increase system availability. This data processing system contains several processor equipment pools introduced to avoid costly duplexing, yet it will keep equipment failures from interrupting operation. The system uses list processing techniques for memory allocation which result in efficient memory usage and allow each processor access to the entire message store. Direct access to memory interface is used to permit automatic switchover of service from one processor to another if the processor fails and to minimize the use of per-line-equipment. Techniques will also be described for message accounting, routing, and processor scheduling, which are independent of machine configuration."
"The Australian Telecommunications Network, which is operated by the Government through the Postmaster-General's Department, is among the world's more advanced systems. Telephone, telegraph, and television services are provided to virtually all settled areas of the vast Australian continent. In very sparsely settled areas, outpost radio telephone services provide for essential communication. The manner in which the Australian network is being extended and modernized to meet the demands of the future is described. Reference is made to Australia's overseas telecommunications services and to the measures taken in the national system design to ensure compatibility with the world system."
"A description is given of the Italian Long Distance Network, which interconnects the 21 Transit Regional Centers of the Country and the international and intercontinental telephone networks. In particular, the characteristics of coaxial cables and radio links are detailed, as are the criteria to be adopted in order to guarantee a grade of service acceptable to subscribers. Fundamental outlines are also described for 1) functional and design standardization of equipments, 2) problems arising with interconnection on a full European and world basis."
"This paper reviews the problems and methods of development of telecommunications in India from 1949 to 1966, and examines plans for 1966 to 1971. Statistical information is given on the financial investment and the physical targets together with the features and the nature of development. The orientation necessary to achieve this high rate of development is discussed. Keeping the network financially viable is a problem. The technical features and an outline of the systems and equipment which includes new coaxial and microwave routes and common control crossbar systems are described. The range of manufacture undertaken in the country is also covered. The paper concludes with a review of the research organization and its vital contribution to the development."
"Data and results of importance in communications systems design are presented from a recent survey characterizing GroundAir-Ground communication channels in Air Traffic Control. Channel utilization is studied because it is a measure of the controller's communication work load. Relationships between channel utilization and air traffic parameters are derived from the data for various controller positions. The utility and validatiens of the relationships are discussed. Observed channel utilization distributions, average values of contact lengths and number of contacts per aircraft, and relationships between contact lengths and air traffic parameters are also presented."
"The Automatic Electric C-2000 Data-Gathering and Control System represents recent innovations in the field of industrial control. The system consists of a master station complex located at the hub of a communication network, linking it to a number of remote stations. An unusually efficient communication message structure is employed which, when used in conjunction with a high-speed data set, results in an exceptionally high information rate. An efficient and effective message security scheme is employed. The system is modular on both a functional and a per-point basis, allowing it to be efficiently employed in installations of all sizes."
"Error probabilities for 2northogonal signals under partially phase-coherent reception are derived by a simple method and then illustrated. The amount of phase coherence is related to the efective signal energy per bit to noise density ratio. The joint effect of timing error and noisy phase reference on system performance is examined in detail."
"Simple and easily utilized techniques are suggested for reliable transmission of binary data in the presence of atmospheric noise bursts. The techniques utilize the time statistics of the noise bursts, now known to be log-normal, and operate on one-way channels. Two modes of transmission are distinguished. The first mode involves double or triple transmission of an error detection code word. The second mode of transmission is based on burst error correction, provided either by a majority count principle or by the recurrent codes of Hagelbarger. Numerical calculations indicate the superior performance of the error detection techniques."
"Forced-erasure decoding, an easily implementable technique for realizing the fullest capability of a code, is presented and discussed. This type of decoding combines the implementation simplicity of digital decoding with the performance enhancement expected of correlation decoding techniques. Adaptive versions, with and without interleaving for fading channels, are described. An exact expression for word-error probability in white Gaussian noise is derived. The concept of a code erasure reconstruction spectrum is introduced and several new results presented, along with a review of applicable, known ones."
"Forced-erasure decoding, an easily implementable technique for realizing the fullest capability of a code, is described and evaluated. This type of decoding combines the implementation simplicity of digital decoding with the performance enhancement expected of correlation decoding techniques. Adaptive versions, with and without interleaving for fading channels, are also treated. The simulation of representative channels is described, and the performances of forced-erasure decoding, correlation decoding, and digital decoding on these channels are determined and compared."
"A transistorized system has been developed for transmitting 2700 voice channels, or 1200 voice channels simultaneously with a TV program. It has the same repeater spacings and the same low noise power as hitherto supplied systems with tube amplifiers. Outstanding details are the underground line amplifiers, the combination of temperature compensation and automatic pilot control of level stabilization, and the equalization of frequency response non-linearity."
"The problem of the detection of a noncoherent sinusoidal signal in the presence of Gaussian noise plus several other interfering sinusoidal signals is considered. The receiver operation consists of envelope detection followed by threshold decision, and the signals are assumed to have equal amplitudes. The probability of phase cancellation, i.e., the probability that the envelope falls below threshold, is calculated as a function of threshold setting, signal-to-noise power ratio, and the number of simultaneous signals."
"A new telephone line loading scheme is reported that permits application of subscriber carrier systems to voice loaded cable pairs with practically no degradation to either voice or carrier transmission. This scheme, termed super-loading, makes use of a bifilar wound toroidal inductor having both windings center tapped, with an LC network joining the center taps. This arrangement produces a device that acts as a one-to-one transformer at frequencies where the LC network presents a low impedance and a series inductor when the network impedance is high. Data are presented comparing the transmission characteristics of nonloaded, nominally loaded, and super-loaded cable pairs at voice and carrier frequencies."
"The calculations of FM bandwidth under both sine wave modulation and noise modulation conditions are given as a function of allowable distortion and modulation index. Curves are given for distortion from -80dB to -20dB and modulation indexes from 1 to 10. Results include an approximate equation for the noise modulation case."
"In this paper a Poisson impulse noise model is utilized to calculate error probability characteristics of a matched filter receiver operating in an additive combination of impulsive and Gaussian noise. Comparisons of the theoretical predictions are made with experimental data obtained from a simulated communication system. The results indicate that only a small amount of Gaussian noise power has a considerable effect on the probability of error for small signal-to-noise ratios (SNRs). Also, it is found that each noise component may be looked upon as acting separately, the Gaussian noise component dominating the error probability for low SNRs and the impulsive component dominating for high SNRs. Thus, approximate error probability curves may be calculated by using a result applicable for Gaussian interference at low SNRs, and an asymptotic formula corresponding to impulsive background noise at high SNRs."
"This correspondence points out an application of a previously published analytical method to the problem of determining the cross-correlation function between two digital waveforms, where one has been linearly filtered."
"The distinguished speakers who follow will describe the very varied conditions which exist in their countries. For example, you will learn about the wide territories to be covered in Australia, the long distances between main cities, and the small density of population over very large areas. You will hear how isolation increases the critical need for communication. We will learn about the urgent need for many more telephones in India where the population density is very great and the need for mass communication acute. From Italy we will hear about the successful efforts made to accelerate traffic and the special problems of the long circuits along the peninsula. From Sweden we will learn that, in spite of the very large number of telephones per person, there is still a noticeable waiting period for obtaining a telephone. Although this is a success story it shows how the very broad use of the telephone has brought about problems. The great demand for telephones indicates that Sweden will move even further ahead in telephone usage. Let us hear from the leaders of communications progress as they report on National Networks."
"In satellite communications systems, the assignment of communications channels to users is a separate function from that of satellite acquisition and the establishment of actual communications circuits. A discussion of this scheduling problem is presented with emphasis on system analysis and mathematical formulation. The system factors pertinent to the scheduling problem are classified into three categories: 1) Satellite availability, e.g., coverage characteristics of the satellite-trunk configuration 2) Communications requirements, e.g., trunk priorities 3) Quality of communications, e.g., satellite-trunk compatibility. As a result of this approach, several computational procedures have been developed for schedule generation. A preliminary evaluation of the various methods in relation to total system performance indicates general criteria for selecting a scheduling method based on system characteristics. This paper also discusses a simulation study designed to evaluate a linear programming algorithm for scheduling specific configurations of medium-altitude communications satellites and trunks. The simulation was programmed in FORTRAN and run on the IBM 7090 computer. The scheduling algorithm selected maximizes total weighted systems communications time. For each configuration, the generated satellite-trunk schedules were evaluated in terms of system performance relative to total communications capability and its distribution in time."
"Two improvements in the design of retransmission (ARQ) systems are described which lead to simpler implementation and improved performance. One change simplifies the procedure for handling erroneous messages and repeat-request-bearing messages; the other simplifies the procedure for requesting retransmissions. The consequences of these modifications and the results of a comparative analysis with previous techniques are summarized."
"The main tasks of the Swedish Telecommunications Administration are the telephone, telegraph, and telex services. The staff of the Administration includes about 40 000 persons. About 31/2 million telephones are serviced, Each year 250 000 new telephones are installed. Data transmission is a rapidly expanding new branch of activity. Switching equipment is of the crossbar type, or based on the 500-line switch. Switching equipment of stored-program-controlled semielectronic type is under development. For long distance traffic, coaxial cables and microwave links are used. The Swedish Telecommunications Administration has both resources for technical development and factories for manufacturing telephone sets and switching equipment."
"A new type of FM demodulator, the Frequency Locked Loop (FLL) is presented. The concept employed in this class of circuits is shown to be applicable in two forms. The first form is realized at the carrier, or IF frequency, to provide an FM detector that has the properties of not requiring a limiter preceding it and also of having a threshold superior to a normal FM discriminator limiter combination. The second form of the FLL is realized at baseband. This form may be added to any existing FM receiver to provide threshold extension properties to the original receiver. In addition to discussing both versions of this new circuit arguments as to the click suppression and threshold extension properties of the circuit are presented. Detailed experimental comparisons of the new circuit with a conventional FM discriminator are made. A comparison is also drawn between the theoretically possible threshold extension of an FLL and that actually obtained with a baseband version of the FLL."
"The increase in error rate due to quantizing is examined for the special case of a digital correlation decoder such as can be used for orthogonal and other block codes. Three types of effect are considered separately: 1) the increase in variance, which is proportional to the square of the quantum interval; 2) a threshold, proportional to the quantum interval, caused by the ambiguity when the received signal correlates equally with two code words; 3) the effect of limiting. Approximations are obtained for small quantizing loss, the case of greatest interest since the object of correlation decoding is high efficiency. For a 7-bit biorthogonal code and a total of 16 quantum levels the increase in error rate is computed as a function of the quantum interval, and an optimum is found."
"This correspondence comments on the operation of conventional echo suppressors described in the referenced paper, and on the relative complexity of 2-wire and 4-wire repeaters. The author of the original paper, which appeared as paper 19TP661326 in the IEEE Trans. on Communication Technology, vol. COM-15, no. 1, pp. 120-123, February 1967, replies."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"The calculation of the error rate resulting from the detection of binary frequency shift keyed (FSK) signals using an FM discriminator low-pass filter detector is described. An example is given using an alternating mark space sequence and the results compared with those obtained using a matched filter. The results indicate that in certain regions the FM discriminator low-pass filter detector yields error rates comparable to the matched filter detector, while in other regions the matched filter significantly out performs the discriminator. An error correction device is described, which when used in conjunction with the discriminator, reduces the error rate of the discriminator detector so that it more closely approaches the matched filter detector. Experimental results are presented to verify the theory."
"By using a simple code-converter for converting a binary data signal into a pseudo-ternary data signal it is possible to obtain a frequency spectrum containing several zeros. These zeros in the spectrum permit the transmission of different pilot signals, which can be used for bit synchronization and for phase reference of a demodulating carrier wave. In this way it is possible to apply single-sideband modulation for data transmission. Another possibility is the use of two channels by applying orthogonal modulation. In the present paper an orthogonal system is described which enables the transmission of 4800 bits per second. The clock signal is transmitted within the information band and the bandwidth occupied by the system ranges from about 700 to 3100 Hz."
"Certain mitigative measures which can be employed against metallic noise coupled into telephone circuits in the outside plant are discussed. Quantitative restults are given for separate entrance cable, flat gain amplifiers, arid noise suppression coils. The model used appears to be well-suited to the typical impulse noise problem."
"A simple, closed form expression is derived for the normalized power magnitude of major intermodulation (IM) products at the output of an ideal bandpass hard-limiter with low input signal-to-noise ratio,(S/N)_{i}. This expression together with no-noise results obtained by a previous author allows quick plotting of the no-noise and high-noise asymptotes of the IM product magnitude vs.(S/N)_{i}, for any number of equal-power, input CW signals. Lastly, it is shown that for many signals it may be advantageous to operate the limiter at a lower(S/N)_{i}in order to suppress the intermodulation distortion."
"This paper describes a new 24-channel cable carrier system which is end-to-end compatible with the Western Electric N3. The synchronization technique is described, and the method used to provide synchronization when working end-to-end with an N3 terminal is discussed. Level stability, data transmission capability, and general considerations in the layout of the carrier frequency repeatered line are reviewed."
"Practical problems in the microwave propagation field, which are considered extraordinary and are largely related to ground reflection phenomena are explored. The effects of these problems in terms of noise, discontinuities, and delay distortion, with the attendant unsatisfactory transmission of telephone message, data, and television signals, were the motivation for the studies described, The solutions in terms of extra structures and, in one case, space diversity, are not considered general solutions, but rather, those arrived at and proven successful in the cases covered by the study. Considerations of structure dimensions and limitations are discussed. In the space diversity case described, a method of determining antenua spacing intervals is given, and the results reported."
"A system based on sequential decoding and utilizing binary phase-shift keying and 8-level quantized decisions is proposed for deep-space communication. Theoretical analyses augmented by a program of computer Simulation promise operation within 3-4 dB of the channel capacity of an infinite bandwidth additive white Gaussian noise channel. A low probability of erasure is achieved by the suggested use of occasional off-line decoding. A negligible probability of error is readily achieved. Channel coherence is examined and quadratic and decision-directed methods of achieving a phase reference are compared. Extensive symbol interleaving is suggested and an analysis included of the required phase reference signal-to-noise ratio."
"A versatile troposcatter simulator has been built which can produce radio channels exhibiting frequency fiat or frequency selective fading over a band greater than l0 MHz and centered at 70 MHz. Frequency selective channels with Rayleigh or other fading are available with controllable cross-correlation of the multipath components. In addition, multiple diversity channels with controllable cross-correlations are provided. A method of estimating the delay and attenuation values for modeling a particular path in terms of intermodulation and thermal noise in an FDM-FM system is described. The actual path measurements and the simulated path measurements are shown to be in reasonably good agreement."
"A microwave amplifier using a varactor diode for improving the receiver noise figure is described. The amplifier is a stable, 2-diode type, with a coaxial signal circuit, a lumped element idler circuit, and a waveguide pump circuit. The design provides a 50-MHz bandwidth at 20-dB gain, and a noise temperature of 200°K. KEYWORDS: Amplifiers, Broadband, Design, Microwave Relay Systems, Signaling, Signal-to-Noise Ratio, Ultra-High Frequency."
"A comparison is made between simplex and orthogonal codes which have been modified by adding their individual complements. The bisimplex code thus formed has reduced efficiency so that the power used must be increased to obtain the same error rate as with the same size of biorthogonal code. It is found that the power advantage of the biorthogonal code is significant only when the code words are shorter than six or seven bits."
"The design and performance of frequency multiplexed, phase-modulated communication systems is presented. In particular, the transmitter is assumed to be an ideal phase modulator which modulates a RF carrier withNphase-modulated, sinusoidal data subcarriers, and in general,Mbinary-valued composite signals. The receiver is a superheterodyne phase-locked loop (PLL) whose output is applied to one ofNsubcarrier extractors. Each subcarrier extractor consists of a subcarrier tracking loop, a timing loop, and a data detector which operates as a cross-correlator. The paper presents results which allow the design engineer to allocate the total power betweenNmodulated data subcarriers,Mbinary-valued signals, and the carrier signal. The total power in the distortion component is computed. Finally, a method is given which allows the communications engineer to select the data rate and the modulation factor of each data subcarrier which will minimize the probability that the data detector will err in the decision process. The results are sufficiently general so that they may be used in designing block-coded systems. Such systems have application in various branches of aerospace communication engineering, e.g., channelized communication satellites and deep-space probes."
"Optimum designs are obtained for a receiver for processing scalar signals embedded in noise, a scalar transmitter in a given noise environment, and a scalar transmitter for combating noise and crosstalk. An iteration algorithm is given for determining the best combination of transmitter and receiver to combat noise; an approximate best combination is calculated in the small noise case."
"Severe fading is a substantial factor that impairs the quality or reliability of transmission over line-of-sight microwave relay systems, producing noise bursts and signal interruptions. This paper describes space diversity receiving and transmitting systems developed by the Electrical Communication Laboratory of Nippon Telegraph and Telephone that reduce the effects of such fading. Theoretical research studies and resultant design criteria, an explanation of fundamental circuits, several example of diversity effects, and the application of the criteria to the design of line-of-sight microwave links using space diversity are described."
"This paper describes methods for the reduction of jitter in transmission chains with regenerative repeaters. These methods are based on the application of pattern transformations to the output signals of successive repeaters. As a result, the coherent accumulation of jitter from signal dependent jitter sources is prevented. Instead, the jitter accumulates on a power basis. It is shown that in this way a significant reduction of jitter is obtained. This result is demonstrated by both theoretical data and measurements on an experimental transmission chain which correspond fairly closely. Furthermore, the realization of the pattern transformations by simple coding techniques is presented in detail."
"This paper presents some observations concerning the type of variability one might encounter in determining error rates in digital data transmission systems subjected to impulse noise. The effects of pulse shape and duration are investigated. It is shown that for signal-to-noise ratios (SNR) greater than -5 dB, a variation of 8 to 1 in the average number of errors per pulse might be encountered as pulse shape is varied. For pulsewidths in the range 0.1 to 4 ms, a variation of 6 to 1 in the average number of errors, per pulse at a given SNR could be expected. Experimental findings relating error rates to pulse duration were supported by analytical studies. The probability of making an error, given that a noise burst has occurred, is determined and a worst case analysis is made, from which a critical SNR is found such that if the noise is below this threshold, no errors can occur. It is recognized that the limitations imposed by the equipment available for study results in a loss in generality. However, the results presented are indicative of the type of variations one might encounter in the case of actual impulse noise on an existing practical system."
"When the multiple signals of FDM-FM communications are passed through a hard limiter, intermodulation products are generated which cause baseband noise. A technique is presented, implemented by a computer program, of explicitly determining this baseband noise as a function of the system parameters of frequency ratio, frequency deviation, and carrier magnitudes. Results are presented as a function of the system parameters using four carriers which are each modulated by four voice channels. The technique presented permits the minimization of the intermodulation baseband noise without the cost of system simulation."
"A 12-MHz transistor repeater design is described. Phase shift characteristics of transistor circuits are studied as a common problem in extending a bandwidth of the amplifier and repeater system design and experimental data are also presented."
"A field experiment is described which has operated since July, 1964, using commercially available thermoelectric generators to provide power to a transmitter-receiver bay of telephone microwave equipment. The generators are operated at a nominal power level of 160 watts. The purpose of the experiment is to gain experience with thermoelectric generators operating under actual field conditions and to evaluate their potential as primary power sources for systems operating in remote areas. The design approach is presented together with a description of the test site. Data are presented concerning the operating characteristics of the power plant with details of environmental effects on generator operation. The cost of providing primary thermoelectric power at a remote site is shown with a comparison to primary diesel, primary battery, and commercial ac power. Conclusions are drawn regarding the economic and technical feasibility of primary thermoelectric power for systems operating in remote areas."
"Deep fading on microwave line-of-sight radio relay links is known to be caused by two or more rays arriving at the receiving antenna at slightly different angles in the vertical plane. Destructive interference between these rays can produce deep fades (30 dB or more) of the received signal. In the experiment described, it was found that deep fading is often accompanied by strong higher-order mode excitation of the receiving horn-reflector antenna. The particular higher-order mode measured in this experiment was theTE^{\\Box^{b}}_{02}, which is excited by horizontally polarized rays arriving off the antenna axis in the vertical plane. TheTE^{\\Box^{b}}_{02}mode as well as the dominantTE^{\\Box^{b}}_{01}mode of the receiving horn-reflector antenna were continuously monitored for the summer of 1966. The experiment was conducted on a 22.8 mile path in New Jersey at a frequency of 6 GHz. Statistical distributions for the received signal level in the dominant mode, as well as statistical distributions for optimum selection of theTE^{\\Box^{b}}_{01}andTE^{\\Box^{b}}_{02}signals, are presented."
"This paper describes the design of the 46B Cable Carrier Terminal. Included is a description of the modulation plan. A unique frequency correction and regeneration plan is used which provides absolute end-to-end synchronization. The noise improvement resulting from the use of an active-tracking (phase-lock) filter rather than a passive filter for pilot pickoff is described. Some general comments are made upon the relationship between level stability requirements expressed in statistical terms and in specific requirements thereby imposed on the circuit design. Measured performance values are given."
"A method is described for determining the phase constant of the rock medium below the surface of the earth. The constant is deduced from the measured phase angle of the mutual impedance between two vertically polarized antennas placed in drill holes extending into the rock. Experiments were conducted at Cape Cod, Mass., using the method to determine the phase constant of the rock between two 1000-foot drill holes, separated by a distance of 6000 feet, at frequencies between 100 and 4200 Hz. Electrically short monopoles were used in the drill holes, with the overburden above the rock serving as a ground plane. Reference phase was derived from nearby Loran-C transmissions received at both the transmitting and receiving ends of the path. The measured phase constants at these frequencies indicate a large loss tangent for the medium. The bulk conductivity was thus deduced to be1.1 \\times 10^{-3}mho/meter, and the measurements did not alone yield an estimate of the relative dielectric constant."
"This work proves the feasibility of utilizing commercial broadcast facilities for emergency Department of Defense 100 wpm Teletype communications. The test network, which consists of ten stations, extends over the northeastern United States. Teletype communications is accomplished by frequency shifting the carrier of the broadcast station transmitter ±18 Hz. This submodulation technique causes no degradation to the commercial broadcast material and is undetectable on a standard home receiver. The tests that were conducted on this network between the terminals at Rome Air Development Center (RADC) Rome, N. Y., and the Federal Communications Commission Laurel Laboratories, Laurel, Md., proved the reliability and survivability of this communications technique."
"Although several methods have evolved over the past few years for analyzing the near-threshold behavior of phaselocked devices, none so far have been able conveniently to integrate all desirable aspects of an engineering method which requires both accuracy and simplicity of formulation. This paper contains a method conceptually as simple as the linear and quasi-linear techniques, but with the added advantage that it is much more accurate near loop threshold-an accuracy, by the way, which increases as the order of the loop increases and as the loop bandwidth decreases. For the simple first-order loop, which is the one this method predicts with least fidelity, the result follows the known exact carrier tracking result with a maximum error of less than 0.08 radians in the rms phase error at system threshold. Compared to actual measurements of carrier tracking secondorder loop performance, the method provided excellent agreement, nominally within 0.05 radians at a\\sigma^{2} = 1."
"Probabilistic codes when suitably matched to modulation-demodulation systems allow communications which realize the theoretical performance predicted by the coding theorem. Sequential decoding is a form of probabilistic coding which allows realization in practical equipment to achieve this end. The Lincoln Experimental Terminal (LET) uses convolutional encoding and sequential decoding matched to a modulation system employing a 16-ary orthogonal alphabet and matched filter envelope detectors, followed by an ordered list of the filters containing the 7 largest outputs. This coding system employing a constraint length of 60 bits and rates of 1 and 2 bits per orthogonal symbol achieves operation at an energy to noise ratio of 6 dB per information bit on an active satellite (Gaussian) channel. The Fano decoding algorithm is employed. After a brief description of this algorithm, the realization of the LET encoder-decoder is presented. The machine using a commercial magnetic core memory, together with about 2000 integrated circuit elements, occupies about 20 inches of 19-inch rack space."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"The analysis presented in the original paper (19TP67903, IEEE Trans. Communication Technology, vol. COM-15, pp. 23-31, February 1967) was not intended to apply to normal fast fading channels characterized by rapid phase and frequency variations. Instead, by assuming sufficient time or frequency separations between the digits within a character so that independent fading of digits could be attained, the analysis was valid, and applied to physically realizable channels."
"The authors of the above paper, which appeared on pp. 252-263 of the April 1967 issue of this Transactions, have corrected various errors affecting equations (15), (33), (49), (50), (61), (63), (72), (75), and (85)."
"E. D. Sunde has found the bandlimiting filters for frequency-shift-keyed (FSK) signals satisfying Nyquist's first criterion. The frequency difference is equal to the signaling speed. The bandlimiting filters for FSK that produce signals to satisfy Nyquist's second criterion are determined here. The minimum bandwidth is equal to the signaling speed. The bandlimiting filter that produces signals satisfying both Nyquist critera for FSK is also determined. The minimum bandwidth required is twice the signaling speed."
"Twenty-six multiple-access modulation techniques are identified and categorized according to the distribution of signal energy/access in a bounded time-frequency plane."
"Alternatives to single sideband modulation are sought for the most efficient use of the voice-band channel in data transmission. Under a certain criterion on optimum data pulses, the direct use of the passband is as efficient as the conventional use of single sideband, which converts the available passband into an apparent lowpass channel. With the simultaneous practical constraints of distortionless transmission, strict passband limitation, and a spectrum free of discontinuities, the principles of pulse-shaping used at lowpass are also applicable for a passband. A class of bandpass pulses is derived which achieves, in addition, a firstorder immunity to timing jitter in the receiver clock, an important property for multilevel PAM systems. Extension to passband is discussed for duobinary transmission."
"Design parameters of UHF/VHF ground-to-air communication systems are discussed with particular reference to propagational reliability. Included are results of some flight trials made over Western Europe using UHF transmissions to four different ground locations with the object of studying the repeatability of signals and effect of different terrain conditions. These experiments were performed under winter conditions when signal variability due to atmospheric refraction was much reduced. In many cases, the plot of field strength vs. distance differed markedly from the theoretical smooth-earth value. However, near the optical horizon the field strength obtained was in reasonable agreement with the theoretical value at all four locations. The fading recorded at long range was no greater than about ±1dB. Both from theoretical arguments and from experimental results, it seems that only the near-in part of the first Fresnel zone is important. The Fresnel zones do not have the same significance as in the usual optical case. Experiments showed that, even in the case of a very irregular foreground, the field at extreme ranges was relatively unaffected. The dominating factor for long-range communication is therefore the degree of atmospheric refraction. By using a known probability distribution of the atmospheric refraction, it is possible to construct curves showing the probability of obtaining a given range with a particular set of system parameters. The paper concludes with curves of this nature for frequencies of 40, 120, and 300 MHz, and for a variety of antenna heights."
"A six-hop radio system employing line-of-sight, diffraction, and tropospheric propagation modes, in the 4.4- to 5.0GHz band, has been installed in Korea. Received carrier levels and teleprinter error rates were recorded and analyzed, and the results extrapolated to predict minimum performance for 99 percent of all hours of the year. The carrier level measurements for the troposcatter links indicated more extreme seasonal variations than predicted by the NBS method. In measurements of the teleprinter error rates on the troposcatter links, it was found that for both dual and quadruple diversity, the advantage of pre-detection over postdetection combining was 4 to 6 dB for a teleprinter character-error-rate of 1 in 10 000."
"A new predetection combiner has been devised which has superior performance to predetection and baseband combining systems previously used in troposcatter systems. In-phase addition at intermediate frequency is accomplished using a heterodyne phase stripping technique. A two-channel receiver using this principle has been tested, and performance is in reasonable agreement with theory. Performance was, in general, superior to a dual channel baseband combiner."
"An L-band tunnel diode frequency deviator which can be tuned over an octave bandwidth by a 160-millivolt change in input voltage is described. By using a nonreactive input circuit, a low-frequency prototype deviator has been tuned over a 50-percent frequency range in less than one RF cycle and an L-band deviator has had its frequency shifted and returned to its original value so that the output phase was shifted by ±90 degrees in 4.25 ± 0.25 cycles (3.27 ns)."
"In a conventional microwave receiver a number of critical frequencies exist such that, when an interfering RF signal is introduced in their vicinity, a spurious IF response results. The existing methods for computing intermodulation due to an interfering carrier are found to be only partially satisfactory, in that, they do not explicitly define the manner in which the receiver mixing mechanism modifies the RF interference with respect to the level relative to that of the wanted carrier, frequency displacement in the IF from the primary IF response, and modification of the modulation index of the interference modulation. This paper extends, in a general manner, the theories of RF interference to include interfering signals falling on or near all major critical frequencies of the receiver. It is shown that, with the relative conversion efficiencies of the mixer available from empirical data and an understanding of the manner in which the mixer will modify the frequency displacement and modulation index of the interfering signal, these interference situations can be analyzed within the scope of a previously defined general interference equation. As an illustrative example some interference problems in a 1200-channel system are analyzed and substantiated with measurement data."
"The automatic intercept system described in this paper will route telephone calls for nonworking numbers to a centralized time division switch which connects the calling customer to a series of prerecorded announcements. The customer is told what number he has reached, the status of that number, and if available, the new number at which the called party may be reached."
"When impulse sampling fails to provide an adequate model, finite pulsewidth sampling must be considered. Along with the analysis of finite pulsewidth sampling, various illustrations are provided."
"Analog and digital data processes are discussed for interplanetary photoscience. Particular reference is made to the Mariner Mars flyby photo mission. A planetary flyby picture taking sequence produces a relatively fast accumulation of video data bits. This data is stored on magnetic tape. As the telemetry data rate at planetary range is extremely slow, days must elapse for continuous transmission of the stored picture information. A study of the analog and digital resolution criteria indicates that for the low contrast scenes viewed, a high SNR at the camera is desired. When the spacecraft is so limited in power, weight, and transmission capability, a ground based computer usefully enhances contrast and resolution."
"The TRANSACTIONS Editor replies to an inquiry regarding the differences between regular and concise papers, and the review procedures involved. Concise papers are short dissertations or condensations of longer papers, and do not contain the elaborative material normally associated with full Contributions. Both types are handled identically in the review and approval operations."
"The error rate performance of a binary communication system, operating in a Rayleigh fading medium, which possesses the capability of automatically ceasing to operate when the received signal-to-noise ratio falls below a preassigned value is analyzed. Communication systems possessing this capability are shown to perform significantly better than systems which operate continuously in the same medium. It is shown that the intermittent system performance asymptotically, i.e., operation in the total signal environment, approaches the multireceiver performance for the case when the multireceiver is measuring only one path."
"A discussion of the Bell System TOUCH-TONE®dialing system when it is alternatively used in data applications is presented. The particular aspects of this service and the hardware involved which lend themselves to alternate data uses are discussed in detail. Among the points covered are coding, the keyboard, error possibilities, and the technical aspects of the receiving data set."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Clarification is made on the matter of the introduction of repeaters into long distance telephone service."
"Summary form only given, as follows. The author of the above-named paper (19TP67-933), which appeared on pp. 383-389 of the June, 1967, issue of this Transactions, has called the following to the attention of the Editor: The factor 2/3 should not appear in expressions (11) and (28)."
"Summary form only given. The author of the above-named paper (19TP67-945), which appeared on pp. 653-654 of the August, 1967, issue of this Transactions, has brought the following to the attention of the Editor: a correction to equation (5) and at the end of the first paragraph under Asymptotes, (p. 653), the figure referred to should be Fig. 2."
"The ideal slow and flat fading model, consisting of any number of multipaths, is revisited. In this model the assignment of specular and scatter components is arbitrary. The additive disturbance need not be Gaussian noise, certain random distortions in the receiver are permitted, and the digital system and the modems are not restricted. Under these assumptions alternative error probability relations are given between the fading and nonfading signals. Their application to practical cases is straightforward. General performance bounds are also derived which are simple functions of the specular and scatter energy ratio in the multipath signal."
"This technique, called quatrix (for quasi-matrix), has potential application in numerous communication and datahandling areas, since it provides high-density matrix-photocell capability at much lower cost. The method uses a few photographically-produced precision coding masks fitted over an equal number (N) of photocells. Thus, ten (N) typical high-detectivity photocells and ten coding masks will produce 210(2N) binary combinations, behaving like a 32 by 32 matrix photodetector and using only 10 preamps. Twenty larger cells and preamps promise a million element matrix. Limitations are discussed."
"The tensor product codes, as either iterated codes or error-locating codes, possess the property of variable redundancy (allowing up to eight different levels of error control). It is shown that the implementation of an encoder for such codes can be decomposed into the implementation of the component codes. The selection of eight encoder modes yields four iterated codes and four error-locating codes that lend themselves to both adaptive coding and feedback transmission strategies."
"Over nearly a decade the British Post Office has been operating normal production electronic equipment for the control and routing of calls through the long distance switching network. More recently the first normal production installation of a fully electronically controlled exchange has been cut into service and is the beginning of a regular program for the installation of such exchanges throughout Britain. It is appropriate at this time to review the performance record of the various types of electronic switching equipment, first to confirm that the direction of development is leading toward greater reliability in service, and second to determine whether changes in maintenance organization may be necessary to take advantage of the greater penetration of the more reliable electronic equipment. This paper deals mainly with the lessons to be learned from the performance of the various types of register-transistor equipment used in the long-distance switching network, but also gives some reference to the performance of the TXE 2 electronic exchange."
"A diversity combiner with a structure which is common to many communication systems is described. When the combiner inputs are independent and identically distributed narrowband Gaussian random processes and the reference signals are timeinvariant, it is found that the combiner output can be conveniently represented as a function of a Gaussian random process, a chisquare variate, Gaussian variate, and known time functions. This representation clearly indicates the performance gain from diversity. In addition, it simplifies the evaluation of expectations of functions of the combiner output; recursion relations, with respect to the order of diversity, are found for these expectations. The results of this paper thus serve to unify and generalize many other results dealing with maximal-ratio diversity combiners; extensions of many well-known results can also be found by using the recursion relations."
"Late in 1962 Bell Telephone Laboratories began the development of a 4-wire version of the No.1 ESS for government and military applications. An electronic stored program system was requested by the government to meet the growing needs of defense communication. There are now thirteen 4-wire No.1 ESSs in the government's AUTOVON network, in addition to 23 No. 5 crossbar offices, most placed in service prior to 1966. By 1969 it is anticipated that more than 50 Bell System offices will be in operation throughout the United States. By this time the crossbar machines will have started to be replaced by ESSs, as shown in Fig. 2. Additional electronic offices, overseas as well as in the United States and Canada, are being planned for AUTOVON by non-Bell System companies. Before 1970 a global defense communication network of ESSs should be realized. Early field experience with the No. 1 ESS, both 2- and 4- wire, has been satisfactory. New offices endowed with new service features and improved maintenance capabilities are being introduced at a growing rate. About 100 No. 1 ESSs are now in various stages of manufacture and installation or in field operation. The ability of this design to provide continuous, high-quality service seems assured."
"Known switching arrays service subscribers in either a blocking or a totally nonblocking manner. The first part of this paper describes a method of modifying totally nonblocking arrays to service a group of subscribers, some of which will be given nonblocking service while the rest will be given service at a prescribed blocking probability. It is shown that the resultant crosspoint saving compared with the totally nonblocking case is significant when the subgroup receiving nonblocking service is limited. The method used is illustrated for 3- and 5-stage symmetrical arrays and may be extended to arrays having a greater number of stages. It is then demonstrated how any number of subscriber groups can be serviced with different specified blocking probabilities by such arrays, which are called partitioned switching arrays. An example is included for a partitioned array affording three grades of service."
"A communication system can often be represented as an interconnection of stations and links. The assumption is that the system is subject to enemy attack aimed at isolating stations from each other. Vulnerability criteria are defined, and asymptotic and recurrence relations are given for computing the vulnerability of several classes of networks with a large number of stations. Based on the analysis procedures, optimum synthesis procedures are suggested. A simple model is analyzed first, then the results of the analysis are extended to include systems with repair, memory, and to those whose interconnections depend on distance. The main objective of this paper is to show under what conditions asymptotic expression for vulnerability can be derived."
"A parallel quadrature AM data transmission system may be implemented with a number of overlapping channels, each carrying a signaling rateb, spacedb/2apart in frequency. When a large number of channels are used, the system allows transmission speeds very close to the Nyquist rate, with little sensitivity to delay and amplitude distortion of the transmission medium. The receiver requires precise phasing of the demodulating carriers and sampling times in order to keep crosstalk between channels small. In the presence of delay and amplitude distortion, better results are obtained when half cosine roll-offs are used for shaping each channel than for full cosine roll-off. This transmission scheme appears to be a promising technique for achieving good performance at high information rates over bandlimited dispersive transmission media."
"The combination of electronic components and dryreed contacts for use in switching systems has proved its high reliability standard. For several years, various types of equipment, e. g., routing translators, switching arrangements for direct distance dialing plant and local telephone offices have been in continuous operation in the public network. Component reliability figures, gained from these devices, are given."
"Electronic switching systems have progressed through the experimental trial stages and a number of systems are now in regular commercial use. The reliability experienced in these field installations wiII be discussed by authors representing four different companies - one English, one German, and two American. Reliability and maintenance data from several operating systems will be used to demonstrate the system dependability currently achieved, and these achievements will be compared with the desired objectives."
"Field experience of electronic switching systems is compared with design objectives expressed in reliability and maintainability parameters, applied from the start of design, for the purpose of meeting stringent customer requirements. A feedback system of field performance was established, reliability analysis was performed, and the results were applied to a reliability model to determine to what degree the established objectives were met."
"Slow-scan television cameras have been used as visual scanners in orbiting satellite programs. The sensor, as an input device, and the associated readout or output device are the terminal parts of an orbiting television satellite system. Some of the input-output elements will be described covering visual sensors, optics, kinescope recording, and facsimile. Sample systems, such as TIROS and Essa satellite systems, will show these elements as part of the system. Trade-off parameters of resolution, light level, electronic bandwidth, frame time, and storage time will be examined to show their effects on the video transmission system."
"An experimental ionoscatter system carrying four 50-baud telegraph circuits has been designed and tested at 36 MHz over a distance of 1000 km between the Netherlands and Southern France. The object was to demonstrate the possibility of designing a system sufficiently compact to be made transportable. By using multiple-diversity reception and automatic request (ARQ) equipment, it has been possible to achieve a reliability of 99.9 percent with simple Yagi antennas and a transmitter power of 5 kW. The performance limits were an error rate of 1 to 3000 characters and a speed reduction of 10 percent. Frequency, horizontalspace, and vertical-space diversity reception have been tried. Signal strength measurements have also been made over paths shorter than 1000 km. It is shown that for a system with low-gain antennas the propagation loss at 400 km is 6 dB greater than at 1000 km. The use of error-correction codes is suggested for one-way connections where the ARQ technique is not applicable. It is shown that it is possible to obtain the same performance as with ARQ."
"The performance of perfect codes on the switched telephone network is evaluated in terms of output block error and output bit error probability. By evaluating these codes against experimental data describing the switched telephone network, it is shown that significant improvement in the block error rate is possible, but that only negligible improvement in the bit error rate is obtained even with block lengths as long as 230 bits and with redundancies approaching unity."
"Work done to verify the results of an analysis of the oscillating limiter published previously is reported upon in this paper. To this purpose experiments were made with an oscillating limiter, the characteristics of which are given, to check the nonlinear distortion produced on the baseband signals. The baseband equivalent circuit and nonlocking behavior of the oscillating limiter were also tested. Finally, a network for compensating the linear distortion produced in the message modulation by the oscillating limiter is shown, as well as experimental results."
"Transposed sideband modulation is a method for frequency multiplex transmission of digital voice band signals. Its significant feature is that no sharp cutoffs are required for the single sideband filters so that amplitude and phase distortions can be kept very low. Since transposed sideband modulation retains the CCITT channel subdivision, it is compatible with existing single sideband voice carrier equipment."
"The design and performance of two experimental, optical links, tailored specifically to interconnect two high-speed tape units, are described. Both links, a full duplex digital link and a full duplex AM/FSK link, are presented in necessary detail. Laboratory experiments have shown that 33-Mbaud operation is feasible."
"A procedure is described for aligning transmitting and receiving antennas in a communications link with a minimum number of positionings of the antennas. A statistical formalization of the interpretation of the received signal levels permits that combination of receiving and transmitting antenna orientations to be chosen which most probably represents the aligned combination. A criterion is also developed for estimating the goodness of the alignment."
"Features of the German satellite earth station at Raisting are cited in this paper. One essential criterion, the noise performance, is discussed in particular. The 25-meter Cassegrain antenna with horn reflector feed (covered by a radome) has been subjected to extended measurements of the system noise temperature. The results show the relation between the system noise temperature and the antenna elevation and azimuth angles under different weather conditions. In fair weather the system noise temperature is53/degK with an elevation of 5° giving a ratio of antenna gain and system noise temperature of 40.7 dB. The curve of the system noise temperature at low elevation angles corresponds well to the optical horizon. During rain an increase of the system noise temperature has been noted. After rain, however, normal conditions are soon restored."
"Automatic interrogation and readout of a worldwide system of over 300 meteorological/oceanographic buoys requires careful attention to system control and communication interfaces. This paper describes the design of a system in which operation is executed by a medium-size digital computer which serves to control interrogation of the buoys, format the received digital transmissions, and put them on line for transmission over cable to a separate central data-processing center for analysis. To exercise system control, a number of functions must be performed. These are interrogation of buoys, data checking, data conversion, retransmission, control, and housekeeping."
"The No. 1 Electronic Switching System (ESS) is the first electronic machine produced in quantity by the Bell System for central office switching. A 2-wire version is being used for Bell System commercial customers and a 4-wire version for a variety of government and military applications. The system is composed largely of solid-state devices and is controlled by a stored program. The nine No. 1 ESS's now in use have been giving good service to their commercial and government users. Judging from customer reaction and from various technical performance criteria, the No. 1 ESS has met its design objectives."
"Provides an overview of the technical articles and features presented in this issue."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"The class of systems described by differential equations containing impulses is of interest because most models for biological neural nets belong in that category as well as most pulse frequency modulation systems. In this paper an extension of Liapunov's second method is presented which can be used for the investigation of the stability of such systems. This is obtained by introducing a positive definite functionV(x), which decreases during the occurrence of an impulse and remains constant or decreases during the free motion of the system."
"A tactical situation analogous to the goal-keeping and scoring problem in hockey is considered. The problem is formulated as a differential game and solved analytically using dynamic programming techniques. The analytic solution is represented by return function maps (in two variables). Other approaches to the problem are indicated with a discussion of their particular advantages and difficulties. Results are quoted for more complex goal-keeping games obtained by a combination of techniques."
"Optimum control of a class of distributed-parameter systems subject to control signal saturation is studied. The system performance is optimized with respect to an integral criterion function. This problem is solved by making use of coordinate transformation and Butkovskii's maximum principle. For this class of systems with distinct characteristic roots, the optimum control law is found to be the solution of a Fredholm integral equation of the second kind, subject to the condition of bounded signal."
"The problem of optimum control of a distributed parameter system with boundary control is studied. The distributed parameter system considered is described by theN-dimensional wave equation. The error measure is quadratic. The control function is unconstrained. The Riccati equation for optimum boundary control is derived. Methods for solving the Riccati equation and calculating optimum control are discussed. The resulting control is closed loop."
"A problem in mathematical economics concerning the optimal investment of resources is solved via the techniques of optimal control theory. Interesting theoretical complications include the simultaneous presence of interdependent control variable inequality constraints, state variable inequality constraints, and singularity conditions. Economic implications of the results are briefly discussed."
"Little compensation information, which is analytical and systematic for nonlinear systems, is available. The describing function method of analysis has been used to design linear and nonlinear compensation networks, but the results are subject to the approximations inherent in the describing function method. method. It is presented here which is based on an exact stability analysis method. Because of the mathematical methods used, the procedure permits the use of pole - zero concepts from the initial stability anal+ to the final steps of synthesizing a compensator. The method is applicable to switched type systems containing eithera perfect switch, switch with deadband, or a switch with hpteresis. In each case, the system is assumed to have one nonlinear element, a group of linear elements, and unity feedback."
"During the last two vears the number of papers published by the G-AC has increased to the point where the size of a single Transactions is becoming unwieldy to process. For example, the July, 1966, issue has 300 pages, the size of some textbooks. Consequently, it is essentially impossible to edit the text for the printer, obtain corrected galley proofs from authors, make page proofs, print, assemble, and distribute an issue of such a size within a scheduled time of three months. Smaller-sized issues are easier to process on a regular schedule. even if there are more of them. than it is to publish few large issues, especially if there are thirty or more other technical publications which must be produced by the same editorial staff as is the case at IEEE headquarters. In addition to simplifying the difficulties of selecting and publishing Transactions papers, the new procedures should produce smaller issues and hopefully reduce the task of reading and absorbing material which appears rather formidable in an oversized issue."
"The application of Pontryagin's maximum principle to trajectory optimization problems results in a two-point boundary-value problem. Computationally, this problem is solved by various digital techniques which are sometimes inconvenient and costly. An analog computer can be used to solve a large class of two-point boundary-value problems if the accuracy is acceptable. In this paper, an analog computer is used in conjunction with a human operator who has a display of the phase planes of the admissible trajectories. The human operator, having a general knowledge of the behavior of the system, adjusts control law parameters until the boundary conditions of the system are satisfied. Apparently this technique has been avoided previously due to the impression that unacceptable errors would be introduced in solving the problem. This technique was applied to a time-optimal rendezvous with bounds on rocket thrust and fuel available and demonstrated that accurate analog computer solutions are possible. Solutions of the rendezvous problem were compared with an exact solution using MIMIC."
"The formal solution for dynamically optimized control of a process is specified in terms of a two-point boundary problem. The numerical computation then presents great difficulties and speed of convergence is vital, even with the most powerful of contemporary computers. The authors give a method for rapid final convergence in which the two-point boundary problem is avoided altogether, although it is in fact only slightly different to methods of second variations. Computing experience with two examples is then described: a) aircraft landing and b) control of a boiler, with which the speed of convergence is well illustrated."
"This paper continues the development of a qualitative theory of stability, recently initiated by the authors, for systems operating over finite time intervals. The theory is motivated by 1) the need for a more practical concept of stability than is provided by the classical theory; and 2) the search for methods for investigating stability of a system trajectory (either analytically or numerically given) without the necessity of performing complicated transformations of the differential equations involved. The systems studied in this paper are nonautonomous, i.e., they are under the influence of external forces, and the concept of finite time stability (precisely defined in the paper) in this case involves the bounding of trajectories within specified regions of the state space during a given finite time interval. (The input is assumed to be bounded by a known quantity during this time interval.) Sufficient conditions are given for various types of finite time stability of a system under the influence of perturbing forces which enter the system equations linearly. These conditions take the form of existence of \"Liapunov-like\" functions whose properties differ significantly from those of classical Liapunov functions. In particular, there is no requirement of definiteness on such functions or their derivative. The remainder of the paper deals with the problem of determining finite time stability properties of a system from knowledge of the finite time stability properties of lower-order subsystems which, when appropriately coupled, form the original system. An example is given which illustrates some of the concepts discussed in the paper."
"Sufficient conditions for absolute stability in the bounded-input-bounded-output sense are obtained for a class of nonlinear sampled-data systems. The criteria are identical to those establishing absolute stability in a global stability sense for the same class of autonomous nonlinear sampled-data systems."
"This paper considers the penalty function method to obtain an approximate solution to the bounded phase coordinate optimal control problem for linear discrete systems with essentially quadratic cost functionals. The penalty function assumes positive values outside the phase constraint set, and zero inside the phase constraint set. The problem is to find an optimal control from a convex compact control restraint set such that the cost functional is minimum, and the sum of the penalty function along the response is smaller than a prescribed constant. It is shown that the maximum principle is a necessary and sufficient condition for an optimal control in a number of cases, and an analytic method of finding an optimal control is given. Also, the existence of an optimal control is proved."
"Classical dynamic programming techniques for the solution of optimal control problems require excessive computer storage capacity. A recently published variation overcomes the problem at the expense of requiring occasional extrapolation along the time axis. The present paper suggests that extrapolation in state space may give higher accuracy. Numerical results are presented in confirmation."
"The optimal nonlinear feedback law for both an unbounded and bounded Brachistochrone problem is given. These control laws describe the Brachistochrone problem in a very simple manner. These laws are derived by using a dimensionless set of state variables which spans a lower dimensional space than the original state space. Also using this reduced state space a two-dimensional instead of three-dimensional field of extremals is constructed for a space bounded Brachistochrone problem. This illustrates that the state space may be reduced so that the storage of a field of extremal trajectories will not exceed the storage capacity of a practical on-board computer. In this way, optimal feedback control may become a practical technique for a larger class of nonlinear systems."
"Optimum control problems with convex inequality side constraints are studied. It is shown that in quite general circumstances an optimum controller can be obtained, and necessary and sufficient conditions for its determination are derived."
"The theory of games is applied to the design of systems with unknown plant parameters. It is assumed that a controller structure is known and furthermore that this controller is optimal when the controller parameters are equal to the plant parameters. The performance index then becomes a function of plant and controller parameters. This function is treated as a pay-off function with the antagonists represented by the controller and plant parameters. The theory is illustrated with some simple samples."
"The gradient acceleration technique is described as a means for solving optimal nonstationary linear systems with unbounded control. A numerical example with a free terminal state is solved. Also, the usefulness of this method for nonlinear and bounded control linear systems is indicated."
"A reduction of order technique is developed which is useful in controller design for single-input, single-output, linear plants which have transfer functions with zeros and parameters which vary slowly compared to the response time of the plant. The controller design is based on a Liapunov-like method and employs a model reference. The reduction of order technique allows the control signal to be generated from the plant output and only its firstn-m-1derivatives if the plant transfer function has annth order denominator and anmth order numerator and if the transfer function hasmknown fixed poles."
"A systems property of great interest to the control engineer concerns the system's ability to exhibit those responses which are asked of it. This capability is governed by the nature of the system equations and the set of inputs which are available to 'force' the system. Given the set of desired system responses Sy, and the system equations, this paper is concerned with characterizing the set of inputs which suffice to generate Sy."
"This paper considers the model-referenced adaptive control problem. An adaption technique that is extremely simple to implement is derived analytically. The simplicity of this technique gives it a distinct advantage over other techniques that have been described in the literature and makes it attractive for practical applications. A direct approach to the problem is taken, employing the state-space point of view. By solving the differential equations of the reference model and the adaptive control system, an expression is obtained showing the explicit functional dependence of the performance error on the adaptive parameters. Manipulation of the expression for performance error yields the adaption equations which are subsequently shown to be very simple to implement. To illustrate the theory developed in this paper, a simple example is discussed and a stability analysis employing Lyapunov's second method is undertaken."
"In this paper, a method is developed for the closed-loop, approximately time-optimal control of a class of linear systems with a total effort constraint. This method is based on a special class of solutions of the Hamilton-Jacobi equation, called eigenvector scalar products. The procedure to be followed is systematically presented, and the method is shown to represent an effective compromise between system complexity and speed of response. In designing a closed-loop system using this method, the controller-computer must only solve algebraic equations, and hence the control can be computed continuously.This is to be contrasted with many of the present methods which require on-line solution of two-point boundary value problems, and hence discrete control. The method is illustrated by an example."
"For certain types of optimization problems, the target set may consist of an infinite number of points uniformly spaced along one or more of the state variable axes. This is true, for example, in the case of time optimal single-axis attitude control. Since the target set is noncompact, the maximum principle cannot be applied directly. However, a new set of state variables can be defined ahich eliminates this problem. The single-axis attitude control problem will be solved to demonstrate the method."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides an overview of the technical articles and features presented in this issue."
"The paper treats an example arising from a problem in educational planning. The provision of places in a sector of education to satisfy an unknown social demand is treated as a \"dual-control\" process. Dynamic programming is used to determine the sequence of decisions which extremizes a performance criterion. Results are obtained for different forms of a priori distributions of the unknown demand. Because answers can be obtained analytically without approximation, the optimum policy can be compared with the nonoptimum policy of optimizing stage by stage. The paper also discusses the effect of the decision maker's a priori knowledge upon the infinite stage process."
"In this paper the problem of optimally designing a quantizer imbedded in a closed-loop dynamic system is considered. The criterion for the design is that the overall system performance as expressed by a variational criterion is optimized. The function of quantization is thus related to the functions of control and estimation that are performed in the system. First, a procedure is described for optimally designing a quantizer in a static open-loop system, where the design criterion is the expected value of a function of the instantaneous error between the input and output of the quantizer. This procedure reduces the search over all quantizer parameters to an iterative search over a single parameter. Next, the existing methods for finding the optimal design of a quantizer imbedded in a dynamic system are reviewed. The most general method found in the literature involves a combination of dynamic programming with an exhaustive search for all quantizer parameters. The computational requirements of this procedure are quite large even for low-order systems with few quantizer parameters. Finally, a new result is presented that leads to greatly reduced computational requirements for the dynamic system case. It is shown that under certain conditions an overall optimum system design is obtained by first optimizing the system with all quantizers removed and then applying the procedure for the static open-loop case mentioned above. This result is analogous to the separation of the functions of estimation and control that occurs under similar conditions. The computational savings over the existing procedures are very extensive, and the new procedure is computationally feasible for a large class of practical systems."
"A model-reference adaptive control system is described where extrapolation techniques are used for identification and for error-prediction at discrete time intervals. The system employs rectangular adaptation pulses of finite duration to minimize a cost-functional of predicted square errors. Weighted squares of the error rate-of-change are included in the cost-functional to be minimized and a number of constraints are considered. Simulation resuits for systems consisting of linear, time-varying, and nonlinear second- to fifth-order processes with linear second-order reference-models are given, where satisfactory adaptation is accomplished."
"The study of optimal control theory has been of prime interest in the past decade. Its application has been impeded because of the optimal controller implementation problem which one often encounters in optimal control situations. In many cases, it is possible to formulate a control problem so that the resultant control law is relatively easy to implement (e.g., quadratic performance indices). Such a problem will be treated in this short paper."
"For a linear plant, the optimization of a performance index of integral type, which is quadratic in states and control, results in a control law. This ideal controller, however, must often be replaced by an approximate controller; e.g., due to inaccessible state variables. The input-output relation of such a controller may be specified within some parameters in advance. A specific optimal controller (SOC) is obtained when the parameters are chosen in an optimal manner so as to minimize a performance criterion; for example, the degradation of a performance index. Since these parameters depend on the initial state, the SOC is designed in regard to the worst initial state resulting in the maximum deterioration, which is then minimized by the best parameters. A computational procedure for this design is proposed. An algorithm is constructed and applied to this min-max problem."
"An area of difficulty in the effective application of modern optimization techniques is often the choice of a performance criterion which adequately reflects the various factors of importance in the proper proportions. This short paper presents an approach appropriate to problems in which two or more performance measures can be ranked as \"most important,\" \"next most important,\" etc. It involves the successive application of the performance measures, with the constraint set at a given stage in the process being chosen on the basis of the results obtained in the previous stages. The resulting optimal control may be a much better compromise choice between the competing criteria than might be obtained by blind reliance on some preselected criterion."
"This paper extends the conjugate gradient minimization method of Fletcher and Reeves to optimal control problems. The technique is directly applicable only to unconstrained problems; if terminal conditions and inequality constraints are present, the problem must be converted to an unconstrained form; e.g., by penalty functions. Only the gradient trajectory, its norm, and one additional trajectory, the actual direction of search, need be stored. These search directions are generated from past and present values of the objective and its gradient. Successive points are determined by linear minimization down these directions, which are always directions of descent. Thus, the method tends to converge, even from poor approximations to the minimum. Since, near its minimum, a general nonlinear problem can be approximated by one with a linear system and quadratic objective, the rate of convergence is studied by considering this case. Here, the directions of search are conjugate and hence the objective is minimized over an expanding sequence of sets. Also, the distance from the current point to the miminum is reduced at each step. Three examples are presented to compare the method with the method of steepest descent. Convergence of the proposed method is much more rapid in all cases. A comparison with a second variational technique is also given in Example 3."
"The pictorial representation of either continuous or discrete systems accomplished by the signal flow-graph technique is extended to mixed discrete-continuous (hybrid) systems. A new flow-graph symbol is introduced in order to distinguish between continuous and discrete variables as well as to indicate the operation of sampling. For the case of linear, time-invariant systems, the algebra for manipulation of such graphs is given. It is shown that the input-output relations of the system are related to certain topological properties of the corresponding signal flow graph. This relation is established and illustrated by several examples. In the case of continuous (or completely discrete) systems, it is shown that the general input-output relation reduces to Mason's formula."
"The optimal linear filtering theory of Kalman and Bucy is extended to include linear systems with multiple time delays as well as the smoothing problem. The (ordinary) filter differential equation and variance equation of the Kalman-Bucy theory are replaced by partial differential equations. An explicit solution is given of the smoothing problem for systems without time delays."
"A computational procedure is described for finding extremal control policies for nonlinear processes. The control problem is formulated as the problem of Bolza in the classical calculus of variations. The method is iterative in nature and prescribes a successive linearization of the Euler-Lagrange equations to obtain the extremal control. The resulting sequence of linear problems is solved such that the successive solutions may, in some well-defined manner, converge to the extremal solution. The linear two-point boundary value problem is decoupled by means of a generalized Riccati transformation. First, the matrix Riccati equation is integrated backwards in time. Then the state equations can be integrated forwards in time. The resulting curves can then be used for the next iteration. It is pointed out that in some instances the method yields a linear feedback control law, which is optimal with respect to initial condition perturbations. Also, the method allows for a sufficieney check. At the termination of the iterations, Jacobi's condition and the strengthened Legendre condition can be checked to see whether or not the control obtained is indeed optimal in the sense of a weak local minimum. Numerical results are presented and a brief comparison is made between this method and the First and Second Variation methods."
"A multiple-correlational, regressional, analysis may be used only for very slow control of an extremum controlled member owing to the great duration of the regression equation solution on computers with a considerable averaging time of the data [7]. The requirements of quick response are lowered if the regression regulator is used as a corrector for a quick response system of open-loop control. The quick response of the corrector may be raised if regressional analysis, or other methods, are used only for teaching the recognition system \"Alpha\" [9], after which the latter itself becomes a corrector. The system distinguishes situations by simple properties which it takes much less time to calculate. The spontaneous self-organization of the prototypes, or poles, of the recognition system used as the corrector is explained in this paper."
"A technique is described for the identification of unknown power-spectral densities from sampled data in terms of a rational function ofz. The problem is reduced to the minimization of a function ofKparameters, whereKis the order of the numerator of the model. This criterion, called the \"minimum residual\" criterion, reduces to the maximum likelihood criterion when the observed signal is Gaussian. A computational technique is described for minimizing this function which uses filtering and correlation to obtain the gradient and an iterative descent method due to M. J. D. Powell for minimization. Some computational results are given in which the method is compared with all-pole and conventional spectrum estimation techniques."
"Measurements are presented which, performed on a stationarily-randomly time-varying linear system, yield sufficient information about the system to enable one to design linear time-invariant open-loop compensation. The measurements are demonstrated on an electronic randomly time-varying linear system and the design technique is applied to an example with interesting results."
"A performance criterion for an adaptive pattern classification system is presented that does not require the probability density function associated with each class to be known. Any decision rule that consists of a discriminant function that is a linear combination of scalar functions of the pattern vector may be chosen on the basis of a priori knowledge about the classes, engineering judgment, and economic considerations. The performance criterion is used to measure the system's performance on a set of \"typical patterns\" or \"training samples.\" The proposed performance criterion is suitable for the use of multivariable search techniques in order to find the optimum parameters of the discriminant function. It is shown that, as the number of training samples approaches infinity, the resulting discriminant function of the form chosen at the outset approximates the optimum Bayes' discriminant function in the mean-square sense. This short paper extends and solidifies a performance criterion for the adaptive pattern classification system described by Patterson and Womack [11]. The improved criterion gives added assurance that a control loop can adapt the system to the desired operating point. Recursive algorithms as described by Kashyap and Blaydon [12], Pitt and Womack [13], and Nikolic and Fu [14] can accelerate the adapting process. Typical of the possible applications for this criterion is the control of the pass/reject phase of the output of a semiconductor manufacturing process. It is at this point in the process that a decision must be made quickly and efficiently as to whether a device does or does not meet specifications. One conventional test procedure is to make individual measurements on n different parameters which results in a parameter acceptance subregion defined by ann- dimensional parallelepiped. The discriminant function approach utilized in this short paper is effectively a many-to-one mapping procedure, where the parameter acceptance subregion is defined by ann-dimensional ellipsoid. This increases the yield of the process and improves the test procedure."
"The goals of this short paper are twofold. First, the parameter stability region, or theD-decomposition technique as it is called in the Russian literature, for obtaining regions of stability in terms of one complex or two real parameters is shown to be applicable when certain elements of the system are given by numerical frequency response data. Second, a technique is presented for interpreting the parameter regions of stability obtained by theD-decomposition method in a space of several parameters."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"This paper establishes the bounded control functionu(t)which minimizes the total energy expended by a submerged vehicle (for propulsion and hotel load) in a rectilinear translation with arbitrary initial velocity, arbitrary displacement, and zero final velocity. The motion of the vehicle is determined by the nonlinear differential equation\\ddot{x}+a\\dot{x}|\\dot{x}| = u, a > 0. The performance index to be minimized is given byS =\\int_{0}^{T}(k+u\\dot{x})dt, withTopen andk > 0.The analysis is accomplished with the use of the Pontryagin maximum principle. It is established that singular controls can result whenk \\leq 2 \\sqrt{U^{3}/a}.Uis the maximum value of|u(t)|."
"Provides an overview of the technical articles and features presented in this issue."
"The problem of finding pulse-width-modulated signals which provide optimal control for a specified plant is considered. A set of necessary conditions which must be satisfied by the optimal control is derived using the calculus of variations. A steepest-descent procedure is developed to obtain a numerical solution to the resulting nonlinear two-point boundary value problem. Special features of the numerical procedure are automatic step size adjustment and the generation of a sequence of performance indices which is monotonic. An example which illustrates the range of application is given."
"An adaptive-predictive model for nonlinear, finite settling-time processes has been described by Roy et al., This paper utilizes this model for the trajectory following control of both finite and infinite settling-time nonlinear systems with switched two-level input."
"An optimization program is developed for the optimum trade-off characteristics between the control effort and the control time for this problem. These results are then used in a design evaluation procedure which yields a simple nonlinear feedback design having good compromise performance on or near the optimum performance bound. The performance points for some previous designs for this problem are also given."
"The signal xtis a stochastic process satisfying the stochastic differential equationdx = f(x)dt+dz. Observations\\dot{y} =g(x) +\\xiare taken, where\\xiis white noise. The exact dynamical equation for the mode of the conditional density of xtis derived and discussed."
"A class of well-known canonical forms for single-input or single-output controllable and observable systems are extended to multivariable systems. It is shown that, unlike the single-variable case, the canonical forms are generally not unique, but that the structure of the canonical form can be controlled to some extent by the designer. A major result of the paper is that a multi-input system can be transformed to a set of coupled single-input subsystems."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"A simplified mathematical model of a rigid, long space-body, spinning at constant rate about an axis of symmetry, is presented. From a heuristic analysis of the vehicle trajectories in the pitch-yaw plane, obtained by application of impulsive control effort, the minimum-fuel two-impulse control law for the case of unlimited thrust is readily deduced. This yields the absolute lower bound on fuel consumption. For the case of limited thrust, based on the minimum-fuel two-impulse control scheme, two suboptimal control laws are determined and illustrated with examples. An approximate graphical construction of the trajectories in the pitch-yaw plane is given, from which the total fuel spent and the total time for control can be evaluated."
"This paper develops a variational programming algorithm of an iterative nature which generates an optimal feedback control for systems with pure time delays in the plant dynamical equations. The computational approach is based on the theory of weak relative minima of the classical calculus of variations and may be applied in situations where the plant is nonlinear and/or the performance index is nonquadratic."
"The effect of errors due to incorrect a priori information on initial states as well as on noise models in continuous Kalman-Bucy filters has been investigated in this paper. A conservative design criterion has been established, and a convenient formula for computing error bounds has been derived which will allow parametric studies of the error effect. The results are applied to typical orbit determination problems of the spacecraft subject to random acceleration having noise contaminated Doppler or range data."
"Statistical techniques for the analysis of missile injection errors are studied in detail. The commonly used direct and adjoint methods are reviewed and extended. It is shown that the determination of the covariance matrix is equivalent to the determination of two transformation matrices for both methods. In general, the adjoint method is more efficient. But for a special case the direct method could be preferable depending upon the relative dimension of the system state and the error source. Two examples are given to verify the results. The techniques presented can be applied equally well to a wide variety of control system problems."
"A method for system identification is proposed which is based on the error-correcting training procedure in learning machines, and is referred to as \"learning identification.\" This learning identification is nondisturbing, is applicable to cases where the input signal is random and nonstationary, and can be completed within a short time, so that it may be used to identify linear quasi-time-invariant systems in which some parameters vary slowly in comparison with the time required for identification. This merit also makes it possible to eliminate noise disturbances by means of the moving average method. Computer simulation of the learning identification was carried out and the times required for identification were obtained for various cases. Some modifications of the learning identification were also investigated together with their computer simulations."
"The application of simple-pole configurations as learning models in self-optimizing control systems is considered, in particular for the case when the model must be an approximate plant representation. Theoretical bases are presented for evaluating a model's adequacy as a simulator and predictor within a control system; and it is shown that a model with a variable multiple time constant and variable gain will often be the best simple configuration. This type of model is likely to be useful as a self-adjusting learning model because it has only two parameters, each of which has a significant effect on the response."
"An optimal linear regulator calls for feedback of all the state variables in the plant. If the plant state is not completely known (i.e., if some of the plant state variables are not available for measurement and feedback), the optimal control law obtained from the available state variables should minimize the maximum (with respect to all initial states of the plant) deviation (increase) in the value of the performance index. Necessary and sufficient conditions for such a control law to be optimal are derived and design procedure is developed to compute such optimal control laws."
"The differenceDbetween two solutionsSandMof the matrix Riccati equation.-\\dot{M} = MA + A'M + MBM + Cis given byD = RQ^{-1}R', where-\\dot{R} = (A+SB)Rand-\\dot{Q}= RBR'. These relations can be used to evaluateM(t)fort < Tarising in optimization problems in whichM(T)does not exist. The relations can also be used to compare the solution of the Riccati equation with its asymptotic solution."
"In this paper, the discrete filter to be used in place of a given analog filter so as to result in minimum mean-square error at the sampling instants is derived. The spectra of the signals to be filtered are assumed to be either 1) band limited, or 2) of known rational form. The condition which the optimal discrete filter must satisfy is obtained by minimizing the expected value of the square of the error, formed by the difference between a digital and sampled analog channel. For rational spectra, the optimum discrete filter is a function of both the frequency characteristics of the analog filter and the spectrum of the process. The optimal discrete filter for this case can be placed in rational form. For band-limited spectra, it is demonstrated that the corresponding optimal discrete filter is dependent only upon the frequency characteristics of the analog filter. The optimal discrete filter for this case, however, cannot, in general, be placed in rational form. Two methods are described for placing this optimal discrete filter in rational form. One of these methods, which involves obtaining the best first-order rational approximation to the optimum transformation, reduces to the well-known Tustin transformation."
"In applying the Popov stability test, a certain straight line is drawn; the Popov locus must lie on one side of this line. Thus geometric considerations alone indicate that the interesting sectors of absolute stability for conditionally stable systems cannot be found directly. However, the straight line of the Popov test may be replaced by a certain parabola and the conditionally stable sectors of absolute stability may then be discovered. The test has its best application for conditionally stable systems but can be used whenever the Popov test can be used. In fact, the Popov straight line may be obtained as a limiting form of the parabola. The test is ordinarily weaker than the Popov test, but nonlinear sectors having a nonzero lower bound may be found more directly."
"An approach for increasing sampling efficiency in closed-loop error-sampled control systems is presented. Comparison with the results of previous works is made by an illustrative example."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"In this paper a study of the effect of integral pulse frequency modulation (IPFM) on single-input single-output feedback control is attempted. For zero input such systems can be reduced to a nonlinear discrete system. Lagrange stability concepts are used for the stability study of such systems. A step-by-step procedure is devised for the construction of the state trajectories of the IPFM system. This has been applied to a second-order plant where it is shown that instability, asymptotic stability in the large, and asymptotic stability in the Lagrange sense are exhibited by such systems. It is also shown that in IPFM systems, the periodic oscillation that exists depends on the initial state. The equivalence concepts of such systems are reviewed critically, and the limitations of the method are pointed out. Further research in this area of feedback modulation is proposed and discussed."
"A seemingly paradoxical situation existed in the Kalman-Bucy formulation of a problem of optimum radio-inertial navigation. The difficulty is traced to the a priori information used in the estimate and variance equations. The reason for the existence of an improved a priori estimate is given. It is shown that with the improved a priori information as initial conditions, the Kalman-Bucy filter gives the same result as that obtained by Peterson originally using the integral equation approach."
"Provides an overview of the technical articles and features presented in this issue."
"The design of piecewise-linear switching functions is investigated for linear, constant, lumped systems with a single ideal relay controller with respect to a transient response (minimum-time) performance criterion. A design method is presented which consists of a series of steps leading finally to the optimization of parameters by a gradient or other search technique suitable for computer implementation. The preliminary steps are devoted to reducing the dimensionality of the parameter space which must be searched, defining the criterion function so as to yield a surface which is reasonably smooth and free of relative minima, and insuring that the search is started with a feasible parameter set. It is concluded that easily implemented piecewise-linear switching functions can be designed so as to yield improved performance, both in terms of settling times and region of stability in the state space, over that attainable with linear switching functions. The complexities of the performance surface are such, however, that it is felt that frequently the determination of a switching function by the heuristic guides described, constitutes an adequate design without the refinement of parameter optimization."
"In this paper the stability of a feedback system with a single odd monotonic nonlinearity is considered. It is shown that if a multiplierZ(s)having a specific form exists so thatG(s) Z^{\\pm1}(s)is positive real, the feedback system is asymptotically stable for every odd monotonic function lying in the first and third quadrants. The multiplierZ(s)suggested can have both complex poles and complex zesro. A simple example is included to demonstrate the applicability of the criterion developed."
"This paper discusses the application of certain aspects of modern control theory to the design of a large tracking telescope that is digitally controlled. Two of the most important criteria are tracking accuracy and response time. The system is also constrained by saturation effects on the control variable. State-transition techniques which have finite settling times over a broad class of inputs are used in conjunction with a suitable inequality condition to obtain a control with near minimum time response. Digital simulation has shown that the design obtained has high accuracy and does not exceed the saturation limitation on the control variable."
"This paper presents a penalty function approach to the solution of inequality constrained optimal control problems. The method begins with a point interior to the constraint set and approaches the optimum from within, by solving a sequence of problems with only terminal conditions as constraints. Thus, all intermediate solutions satisfy the inequality constraints. Conditions are given which guarantee that the un \"constrained\" problems have solutions interior to the constraint set and that in the limit these solutions converge to the constrained optimum. For linear systems with convex objective and concave inequalities, the unconstrained problems have the property that any local minimum is global. Further, under these conditions, upper and lower bounds in the optimum are easily available. Three test problems are solved and the results presented."
"This paper presents a technique for synthesizing a time-optimal adaptive control system. The technique consists of combining off-line memorization with simple on-line calculations to determine the control signal. The adaptive switching hypersurface consists of images of switching points of each plant in the extended state space (the present and past state variables). The approximation is obtained by linearizing the projection of the adaptive switching hypersurface in a subspace, and finally storing the parameters of the hyperplanes thus obtained in memory. The on-line calculation corresponds to a simple function generator. The function generator consists of the memory containing the values of parameters of the hyperplanes and a linear interpolator. The input of the function generator is the present and past state variables, and its final output is+Kor-K. The technique is applied to the pitch axis adaptive regulator control of the F-101B aircraft in various flight conditions, and simulations of the system by the hybrid computer are obtained."
"The optimal control problem, in the presence of uncertainty in the plant, is formulated as a game between the uncertainty and the control variables. This approach gives an optimal control strategy which is effective even under the \"worst\" conditions of uncertainty. The optimal control of a second-order plant with uncertainty in frequency brings out several interesting features. In particular, the existence of a barrier demarcating the controllable and uncontrollable regions in the phase plane is revealed, which is absent in the corresponding one-sided optimization."
"It is shown that a discrete control system is bounded-input bounded-output (BIBO) stable if and only if there exist Liapunov functions possessing certain properties. As an illustration, a frequency criterion is developed for the BIBO stability of a class of non-linear discrete systems."
"Necessary and sufficient conditions for an optimal control for linear time-lag optimal control systems with side constraints are given. Also the existence of an optimal control is proved."
"J.C. Lozier, the Guest Editor, is a Supervisor in guidance and control systems analysis at the Bell Telephone Laboratories, Inc., Whippany, N.J., USA. He is a Fellow of the IEEE, a former Chairman of the G-AC, a former President of the AACC, and now a Fice President of the IFAC. He is also Chairman of the long-range planning committee of the AACC. This editorial is taken from a letter he wrote to the other members of the committee to stimulate discussion and to generate ideas for improving the JACC. Some of the points raised are also applicable to this Transactions and to other technical meetings. The editorial is presented in the hope that it will elicit ideas and comment from the G-AC membership. He notes that one way to improve meetings - such as JACC - from the customers' standpoint lies in clamping down on the authors. One suggestion for doing this is the following: make the author confine his scope to a brief statement of the problem tackled and the results claimed - at most five to seven minutes - followed by discussion which is started by an invited discussor whose name is included in the advanced program. The five to seven minute restriction is aimed at making it impossible for the author to try to give a condensed version of his paper."
"Implementation is one of the most pronounced difficulties in designing optimal feedback controllers to prevent the state variables of the system from exceeding predetermined bounds. A method to obtain approximately optimal feedback controllers based on the geometric features of the optimal open-loop solution of the bounded state variable problem is presented in this paper. Easily instrumentable controllers are designed and successfully tested on various plants to furnish a value of the performance criterion close to the optimal. Typical examples illustrate the approach."
"The stability of a large sampled system is examined by finding the eigenvalues of the difference equation that describes the system. The derivatives of these eigenvalues with respect to the system parameters are found to give the sensitivity of the system to the various parameters. A method of finding the difference equations for the system is described which is based on exponentiating the matrix of the system with the samplers open. The problem of multiple eigenvalues is considered, and a block-form solution is used to determine the nature of the multiplicity of the multiple eigenvalues."
"This paper shows a method to find domains of the phase space of an autonomous system, where the transient responses are faster than those produced by the linear system\\dot{y}=-\\lambda y. This system is considered as a standard; the domains are said to correspond to a restriction of quality equal to λ. The problem is transformed into one of finding relative stability domains for a special time-dependent Liapunov function. As an example, a second-order nonlinear servomechanism is studied. The objectives that can be called best estimates of domains or of restrictions of quality are too many; two of them are exemplified by means of a straightforward variational technique."
"A method for using gimbaled star trackers to obtain useful attitude control signals is presented. Gimbaled trackers are required if the spacecraft is to be pointed in an arbitrary direction and if any suitable star is to be chosen as a guide star for the star tracker. With the trackers locked onto their guide stars, deviation of the gimbals from their commanded angles provides a measure of the error in vehicle attitude. Since the errors are generated about axes which are not necessarily mutually orthogonal nor aligned with the spacecraft's control axes, they must be processed somehow to make them useful as control signals. The study considered here develops a realizable approximation of the nonlinear processor required to generate vehicle attitude errors from the gimbal angle error measurements. The approximate processor is simple enough for use on board current spacecraft and allows satisfactory performance over as wide a range of star tracker gimbal angles and satellite attitudes as desired."
"The problem of absolute stability of feedback systems containing a single nonlinearity is considered for the case of the linear transfer function having an equal number of finite poles and zeros. Explicit Liapunov functions are presented and frequency-domain criteria are derived for systems for which the nonlinear functionf(\\cdot)belongs to the classA_{\\infty}(flies in the first and thirdquadrants) or its subclasses such as monotonically increasing functions(f\\inM_{\\infty}), odd-monotonic functions(f\\ino_{\\infty}), and functions witha power-law restriction(f\\inP_{\\infty}). A new class of functions with restricted asymmetry having the property|f(\\theta)/f(-0), \\leqcfor all\\theta(\\theta\\neq0)is introduced, and the results obtained can be used to establish stability in some cases even when the Nyquist plot of the linear part transfer function lies in all the four quadrants and the nonlinearity is not necessarily odd. Restrictions on the derivative of the non-linearity have been taken into account by means of a transformation, and the resulting stability criterion is seen to be an improvement over those obtained in some earlier papers."
"The problem of giving a spectral factorization of a class of matrices arising in Wiener filtering theory and network synthesis is tackled via an algebraic procedure. A quadratic matrix equation involving only constant matrices is shown to possess solutions which directly define a solution to the spectral factorization problem. A spectral factor with a stable inverse is defined by that unique solution to the quadratic equation which also satisfies a certain eigenvalue inequality. Solution of the quadratic matrix equation and incorporation of the eigenvalue inequality constraint are made possible through determination of a transformation which reduces to Jordan form a matrix formed from the coefficient matrices of the quadratic equation."
"The paper presents a constructive design procedure for the problem of estimating the state vector of a discrete-time linear stochastic system with time-invariant dynamics when certain constraints are imposed on the number of memory elements of the estimator. The estimator reconstructs the state vector exactly for deterministic systems while the steady-state performance in the stochastic case may be comparable to that obtained by the optimal (unconstrained) Wiener-Kalman filter."
"Macfarlane [1] has shown that for any asymptotically stable linear system with constant coefficients there exists a general functional matrix that can be used to evaluate a very wide class of system functionals. A disadvantage is that the algebra needed to determine this matrix, while straightforward, is lengthy and tedious. It is shown that the general functional matrix can be obtained by a completely systematic procedure that involves little or no algebraic manipulation. The relationship with some recent work by Bass and Webber [4] on optimal linear systems with quartic and higher-order performance criteria is investigated, and a method based on the solution of the Liapunov matrix equation is suggested for obtaining the optimal nonlinear feedback control. An explicit form for the inverse of a related Kronecker sum is also given."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"This paper studies the controllability and observability of the parallel and the tandem connection of two linear time-invariant differential systems; it uses the Jordan form representation; it does not assume that the eigenvalues of each representation are simple nor that the two sets of the eigenvalues are disjoint. The controllability and observability of the composite representations require only testing the linear independence of some constant vectors. Some sufficient conditions require just the transfer function matrices."
"Real-time identification and control of linear discrete systems with Gauss-Markov random parameters and conditioned quadratic cost function are considered. Algorithms for explicit calculation of the identification and control are given for systems with perfect state measurement and are illustrated by example applications. The control strategy generated by the cost function is an identitication-adaptive controller which is continually revised as new data are received. The identification equations develop an explicit model of the system which is available for other purposes if desired, and can be used apart from the control context."
"Provides an overview of the technical articles and features presented in this issue."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"This paper considers an important class of problems known as measurement adaptive problems, in which control is available over not only the plant (i.e., the state equation contains a control variable) but also the measurement subsystem (i.e., the measurement equation contains a control variable). In the general situation the problem is shown to be a generalization of the combined optimization problem. In the special situation of linear systems, quadratic cost, and Gaussian random processes, it is shown that the optimization of plant control can be carried out independently of the measurement control optimization and, furthermore, that optimization of the measurement control can be done a priori. Two examples illustrating this latter situation are presented."
"Let the signal and noise processes be given as solutions to nonlinear stochastic differential equations. The optimal filter for the problem, derived elsewhere, is usually infinite dimensional. Several methods of obtaining possibly useful finite dimensional approximations are considered here, and some of the special problems of simulation are discussed. The numerical results indicate a number of useful features of the approximating filters and suggest methods of improvement. The paper is concerned with problems where the noise and nonlinear effects are much too large for the use of \"linearization\" methods, which for the simulated problem, at least, were useless."
"Kalman's concept of optimum filtering is interpreted in such a way that it can be applied to both nonlinear and linear systems with Gaussian or non-Gaussian statistics. The essential idea is to synthesize a generalized Kalman filter in two stages, a) propagation and b) measurement and correction. The analysis of each stage is independent of the other, and the generalized results are quite simple. In the present paper, the application of the above result is confined to linear systems: 1) Optimum filtering and interpolation of randomly sampled signals; for the interpolation problem it is assumed that the signals are measured exactly at the sampling instant. 2) Optimum filtering of related continuous and randomly sampled signals. 3) Optimum control of randomly sampled linear systems with quadratic cost criterion."
"This paper combines the compensation of control systems with transient analysis and switching circuit theory to accomplish the discrete compensation of control systems. Several transfer functions are used as examples, and their realizations are discussed in detail. Lead and lag compensation are used, and several general transfer function realizations are presented for clarity. All of the realizations have been implemented with methods suitable for complete circuit integration, i.e., the logic circuits required for implementation are all commonly available in large quantities on a single integrated circuit chip."
"A linear model for use in determining stability, relative stability, and dynamic response of phase-angle modulated SCR systems is presented. The model is based on sampled-data control theory and assumes 1) a system bandwidth that is small relative to sampling frequency, and 2) limited excursion of the SCR triggering angle. These assumptions are justified for practical systems. The theory leads to a simple equivalent transport-lag representation. If the triggering angle varies over a relatively wide range, a \"worst-case\" analysis is necessary using the linear model. An example is included to illustrate use of the model for system design and is supported by experimental data."
"The identification or modeling of a given plant or system seems to be of current interest with regard to control problems. In particular, attention is often focused upon the case in which the given system is assumed to be linear and time invariant with a rational transfer function whose order is known not to exceed some numbern. In this case it is desired to estimate the poles and zeros of the transfer function or, alternatively, the coefficients of the numerator and denominator polynomials. This paper describes a method of estimating the coefficients based on certain results in stochastic approximation and optimum filter theory. This method is computationally simple and has a rate of convergence inversely proportional to the observation time. The method requires a knowledge of the correlation properties of the observation noise."
"For linear systems the error covariance matrix for the unbiased, minimum variance estimate of the state does not depend upon any specific realization of the measurement sequence. Thus it can be examined to determine the expected behavior of the error in the estimate before actually using the filter in practice. In this paper, the general linear system that contains both plant and measurement noise is shown to exhibit a decomposition property that permits the derivation of upper and lower bounds upon the error covariance matrix. This decomposition allows systems containing either plant or measurement noise, but not both, to be considered separately. Some general characteristics of these simpler systems are discussed and conditions for the positive definiteness and vanishing of the error covariance matrix are established. It is seen that the presence of plant noise, in general, prevents the error from vanishing. Alternatively, the condition ofq-stage observability is seen to be sufficient to insure that the error covariance matrix asymptotically approaches the zero matrix for systems with noise-free plants. These results are used to establish very specific lower bounds. Through the application of the duality principle, they can be applied directly to the analysis of the linear regulator problem."
"In this paper two problems are considered, the problem of modeling a given constant linear system by a constant linear system of fixed lower order, and the problem of finding a filter of fixed order to estimate a time-invariant random process from a related time-invariant random process. A quadratic criterion is used to select the optimum system in both cases. It is shown that the filtering problem reduces to the problem of modeling the corresponding Wiener filter. Necessary conditions for a solution are developed and stated in terms of standard Wiener filter theory notation. Numerical solution of the equations embodying the necessary conditions is considered and several examples are presented."
"Recently, considerable attention has been devoted to the analysis of high-order systems containing severe nonlinearities separated by linear functions, particularly those using bang-bang or on-off controllers. These have proven to be very satisfactory in the attitude control systems of manned or unmanned spacecraft and satellites. This paper develops describing functions for a particularly complicated multiple nonlinearity: a tri-stable (bang-bang with dead zone) characteristic, followed by a linear integrator with a constrained range of integration. It should be noted that constraining range of integration is not equivalent to simple limiting of an integrator's output. This system of nonlinearities has not previously been treated in the literature, although it is founds for example, in satellite attitude controllers where on-off torques give rise to constrained momentum wheel angular velocities or in guided missile hydraulic actuators with bang-bang power spool and control surface position limits. This frequency-variant nonlinearity has three distinct modes of operation and, therefore, is quite different from the usual single nonlinearity considered for describing function application. The describing function and boundary equation for each mode are derived in the paper, and numerical examples are given. The analytical results were found to agree well with results from an analog computer simulation. These describing functions may be used to size power actuators ands therefores should be very useful for preliminary systems design."
"In this paper the problem of selecting an optimal input for identifying an unknown parameter of a known discrete system by observing its output in the presence of Gaussian noise is considered. The system is assumed to be a generalized discrete system in which the inputs and possible parameter values are members of a finite set. The criterion for the optimal input is defined as that which maximizes the probability of correctly determining the true parameter value from a multiple hypothesis test. Although the above criterion totally orders the set of inputs, it is a difficult task to select the best inputs. Some theorems are presented which yield a partial ordering whose extension is the desired total ordering. In the special case of strong noise, it is shown that the ordering of inputs can be related to the perimeter in the output vector space. The results of the paper are applicable to the selection of preset input lengths or to adaptive identification."
"This paper is concerned with certain practical aspects of linear estimation theory. Several questions, which arise during most applications of the theory, are partially answered by considering the following problem: Obtain the linear minimum variance estimate of the systemx_{n+1} = (\\Phi_{n+1.n} + \\delta\\Phi_{n+1.n})x_{n} + w_{n}y_{n} = M_{n}x_{n}when the assumed model is given byx_{n+1} = \\Phi_{n+1.n}x_{n} + w_{n}y_{n} = M_{n}x_{n}"
"In this paper a quite general formulation of sequential pattern recognition processes is presented. Within the framework of this formulation, a procedure is obtained for the simultaneous optimization of the stopping rule and the stage-by-stage ordering of features as the process proceeds. This optimization procedure is based on dynamic programming and uses as an index of performance the expected cost of the process, including both the cost of feature measurement and the cost of classification errors. A simple example illustrates the important computational aspects of the procedure and indicates the form of the solution."
"This paper describes the results of a Monte Carlo evaluation made of the methods proposed in current literature for the estimation of the pulse transfer function of a linear, time-invariant dynamic system with feedback. Considered are two basic methods for estimating the coefficients of a pulse transfer function, given only the normal operating input and output of the system obscured by noise and over a limited period of time. The most commonly proposed method is a linear method in which a set of simultaneous linear equations is formed from the sampled data and the coefficients obtained by a matrix inversion. The other method is an eigenvector method proposed by Levin which uses the eigenvector associated with the smallest eigenvalue of a matrix formed from the sampled data. This paper presents a set of examples designed to compare linear and eigenvector estimation methods and to verify experimentally the theoretical results and approximations given by Levin. The comparison shows that the eigenvector method generally gives estimates with equal or smaller rms error\\sqrt{Variance+(Bias)^2}than the linear method. The eigenvector estimates had bias magnitudes which were consistently less than their standard deviations; the linear estimates did not, and thus had rms errors which often consisted largely of the bias. The approximate covariance matrix given by Levin for the coefficients estimated with the eigenvector method is found to be reasonably accurate."
"In this paper a generalized formulation for the convolutionztransform is presented. The advent of this formulation could cover most of the sampled-data cases discussed in the literature. This includes nonsynchronized, cyclic rate, multirate, and nonsynchronized multirate sampling. Furthermore, the use of this formula lies in its applications to certain forms of nonlinear discrete analysis, as well as to time-varying cases. Each of the applications is singled out, and the proper references are cited."
"Bounds on the output of a linear system are developed and used to reexamine the nature of the truncation error eNin the sampling expansion of a band-limited signalf(t). It is shown that iff(t)has finite energy, then the maximum of|e_{N}|is bounded by the mean-square value of the errorH(\\omega)in the approximation ofe^{i\\tau\\omega}by a truncated Fourier series. Iff(t)has finite power, then the mean-square value of eNis bounded by the maximum of|H(\\omega)|."
"The method of adjoint simulation has been widely applied to the analysis of continuous systems, using analog computers. This paper shows how the adjoint technique can be used for discrete, continuous-discrete, and multirate-discrete systems on digital computers."
"The round-off and truncation errors of a digital-analog (hybrid) servo system are studied in terms of the least upper bound and second moment, or variance. The study was applied to the azimuth function of a guided missile launcher system and a digital controller designed for the launcher system. The techniques employed can be generalized and applied to other analog-digital or digital systems."
"The problem of estimating unknown transfer function parameters from finite input-output records which have been disturbed by additive Gaussian noise with unknown correlation is considered. A rational sampled-data model of preselected order is assumed appropriate, and following the work of Klein, Åström and Bohlin, and Mayne, the likelihood function is generated from the data by numerical filtering. The maximum likelihood criterion leads to nonlinear regression equations for the unknown parameters, which are solved by damped Gauss-Newton iteration. Some computational experiments are described."
"A brief outline of the method of transient analysis which employs half-period transient-gain (HPTG) characterizing functions to linearize the nonlinearity in control systems is first given. Two theorems concerning these functions are then presented. The first theorem shows that the HPTG of a nonlinearity, which is formed by adding N other characteristics, is the sum of the HPTG functions of the N individual characteristics. The second theorem shows that the imaginary part of the HPTG is proportional to the area of the loop in the nonlinearity. With these theorems, a general method for calculating the HPTG of any single- or double-valued nonlinearity is developed which involves only arithmetic computations. The method is illustrated by application to a magnetic hysteresis characteristic with variable loop width and saturation. With the HPTG assumed calculated, a method of evaluating the transient response is developed which avoids the step-by-step calculations necessary with an earlier approach[13] and also leads to direct ways of finding rise time, overshoot, time to first overshoot, and settling time of a step-function response. This work is illustrated by application to a position control system in which nonlinear friction is the important nonlinearity. It is shown that the method accurately predicts heavily damped transients and the initial sticking present."
"A method for eliminating the electrical transients in high-performance sleeve induction motors is shown whereby response times of one millisecond can be achieved. Improved dynamic performance and a fivefold reduction in the standby power normally required are gained by using phase-modulated, variable amplitude inputs to both the control and reference windings. The reduction in the input power and response time is obtained at the expense of additional complexity in the drive system which requires a sinusoidal function generator and two multipliers. The proposed system will probably be most useful for critical applications such as in missile guidance control systems."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Linear systems with quadratic terminal cost function and inputs with bounded amplitudes are considered. The optimal control and optimal terminal state are associated with the minimum value of the cost function. An iteration procedure is developed whereby a sequence of subsets of the reachable set are generated such that the sequence converges to a subset containing the optimal terminal state. The control yielding a minimum value for the cost function is obtained along with the terminal subset. The optimization processes on the various subsets are far simpler than the optimization of the original continuous system. An example of a third-order system is included for illustration."
"This paper describes an improved algorithm for obtaining the steady-state feedback-gain matrix from the discrete matrix Riccati equation. This is of importance in the steady-state optimization of discrete linear systems with quadratic performance criteria. The solution of the Riccati equation by the natural iteration technique suggested by its dynamic programming derivation requires, in general,n(3n^{2}+3r^{2}+3nr+n+2r)/2+r^{2}(r+1)/2multiplications per step, wherenis the order of the system and r is the number of inputs. The improved algorithm requires onlyr(n^{2}+2nr+n)/2+r^{2}(r+1)/2multiplications per step, may converge in fewer iterations, and requires less storage. For the special caseR = 0(no weight on control effort), the number of multiplications can be reduced further tor(n-r)(n+r+1)/2+r^{2}(r+1)/2per iteration. The simplifications described above are accomplished in two ways. First, the characteristics of recently published canonical forms for controllable systems are exploited to reduce the number of free parameters appearing in the system matrices. Second, the concept of feedback-gain equivalence of performance criteria is used to derive a simply computed canonical form for the weighting matrix."
"A method of controlling nonlinear nonautonomous multivariable systems is presented in which the control variables are subject to magnitude constraints. The system is designed to track a non-linear model within some region of the state space, the size of this region being a function of certain model parameters. To illustrate the method, the technique is applied to the control of an exothermic chemical process."
"This paper describes an algorithm for repetitive in-flight calculation of optimal rocket steering laws for orbital injection and rendezvous missions. The algorithm is based on a general \"indirect\" method of solving the optimal-trajectory problem as a boundary-value problem in ordinary differential equations, and it avoids assuming artificial physical simplifications or specialized mission definitions. At each guidance cycle the solution to the boundary-value problem is updated by a single iteration of Newton's method using partial derivatives obtained by numerical integration of variational differential equations. Simulation results show that a precalculuted linear steering law provides adequate initialization to assure that this iterative guidance scheme recovers from worst-case in-flight perturbations and achieves desired end conditions with near-minimum cost."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Until recently traffic control has been limited to the use of pavement markings, signs, regulations, and fixed-time-cycle traffic lights. Only in the last decade has there been much research on the theorv of the mechanisms of traffic flow on which the design of control systems could be based. This book is a summary of most of the research that was done in this area prior to 1964. It is based on papers presented at an Interdisciplinary Clinic on Instrumentation Requirements for Traffic Control Systems held in December 1963. The editor has grouped the papers into three categories: introduction, traffic control instrumentation theory and practice, and case studies of large-scale integrated traffic control systems. A detailed review of each constituent paper is presented as part of this review."
"A sufficient condtion given for the asymptotic stability of a system having a single monotonic nonlinearity with slope confined to[0, k_{2}]and a transfer functionG(j\\omega), isRe(1 + X(j\\omega) + Y(j\\omega) + \\alphaj\\omega)(G(j\\omega) + 1/k_{2}) \\geq 0where\\alpha>0 , x(t)\\leq 0fort \\leq 0andx(t)=0fort>0 , y(t)\\leq0fort>0andy(t) = 0fort < 0, and\\int\\min{-\\infty}\\max{\\infty}(| x(t)| + | y(t) | )dt < 1. The improvement consists of the addition of theX(j\\omega)term which corresponds to a nonzero time function fort<0, resulting inZ(j\\omega)multipliers whose phase angle is capable of varying from +90° to -90° any desired number of times. As is shown by examples, the new criterion gives better results than existing criteria. Also developed is an improved criterion for an odd monotonic nonlinearity."
"The following questions about future selection of correspondence items are being considered. Should those containing new technical developments be placed in the short paper category and thus be subjected to the complete review and selection procedures? Should all or only some be subjected to one or more reviews? Should they be published in the Neuisletter instead of the Transactions to save publication costs? Should the length of each, if discussing new technical developments, be so limited, or should it be labeled a \"technical note\" instead? Answers to these questions should be of interest to all Transactions readers and will influence the content, publication speed, and subsequent usefulness of correspondence. Your reactions to the status of past, present, and future correspondence items will be greatly appreciated and may create new publication policies to be described in a future editorial."
"This study considers the problem of determining optimal feedback control laws for linear stochastic systems with amplitude-constrained control inputs. Two basic performance indices are considered, average time and average integral quadratic form. The optimization interval is random and defined as the first time a trajectory reaches the terminal regionR. The plant is modeled as a stochastic differential equation with an additive Wiener noise disturbance. The variance parameter of the Wiener noise process is assumed to be suitably small. A singular perturbation technique is presented for the solution of the stochastic optimization equations (second-order partial differential equation). A method for generating switching curves for the resulting optimal bang-bang control system is then developed. The results are applied to various problems associated with a second-order purely inertial system with additive noise at the control input. This problem is typical of satellite attitude control problems."
"The purpose of this paper is to present an alternate derivation of optimal linear filters. The basic technique is the use of a matrix version of the maximum principle of Pontryagin coupled with the use of gradient matrices to derive the optimal values of the filter coefficients for minimum variance estimation under the requirement that the estimates be unbiased. The optimal filter which is derived turns out to be identical to the well-known Kalman-Bucy filter."
"A technique is presented for salving the discrete version of the multidimensional Wiener-Hopf equation by spectral factorization. This equation is derived to establish a need for spectral factorization and to determine the requirements of the factors of the spectral matrix. The method of factoring the spectral matrix of continuous systems, developed by Davis, is then extended to discrete systems. More specifically, a matrixH(z)must be found such that the matrix of the spectra of the input signals equals the product ofH(z^{-1})andH^{T}(z). A technique for finding this matrix is presented. The nonanticipatoriness as well as the stability of the elements ofH(z)andH^{-1}(z)must be and is guaranteed. It is then shown that the solution to the discrete Wiener-Hopf equation is unique."
"This paper explores the possibility of using the instrumental variable method to estimate the parameters of linear time-invariant discrete-time systems. The existence of optimal estimates is established, methods for their approximate computation are given, and an on-line identification scheme based on recursive computation is proposed. Experimental results are included."
"A method for synthesizing suboptimal feedback control laws is discussed. A structure for the suboptimal control is assumed which is a linear combination of suitably chosen functions of state variables. The coefficient multipliers for these functions are determined by the minimization of a mean-square error using data obtained from numerically computed optimal trajectories."
"Close relationships are established between convolutional codes and zero-state automata and between cyclic codes and zero-input automata. Furthermore, techniques of automata theory and continuous system theory are used to elaborate on the coding problem; and approaches from coding and automata are used to establish and interpret typical structural conditions in continuous systems. The investigation incorporates basic coding concepts into the currently emerging common basis for automata and continuous systems, and it gives explicit examples of the resulting benefits accruing to each of these areas from the others."
"Necessary and sufficient conditions for the \"decoupling\" of anm-input,m-output time-invariant linear system using state variable feedback are determined. Given a system which satisfies these conditions, i.e., which can be decoupled by state variable feedback, the class φ of all feedback matrices which decouple the system is characterized. The characterization of φ is used to determine the number of closed-loop poles which can be specified for the decoupled system and to develop a synthesis technique for the realization of desired closed-loop pole configurations. Transfer matrix consequences of decoupling are examined and practice implications discussed through numerical examples."
"Provides an overview of the technical articles and features presented in this issue."
"It is shown that controllability of an open-loop system is equivalent to the possibility of assigning an arbitrary set of poles to the transfer matrix of the closed-loop system, formed by means of suitable linear feedback of the state. As an application of this result, it is shown that an open-loop system can be stabilized by linear feedback if and only if the unstable modes of its system matrix are controllable. A dual of this criterion is shown to be equivalent to the existence of an observer of Luenberger's type for asymptotic state identification."
"A second-order method for computing optimal control is described. The method computes control corrections from the state perturbations through feedback coefficients. On each successive trajectory a test is made for a conjugate point, and the algorithm automatically forms a control correction when such points occur. Unlike some earliermethods, terminal constraints of arbitrary dimensions are handled by the method. Numerical results for two cases of a non-linear example based on van der Pol's equation are included."
"Some aspects of the inverse optimum control problem are considered for a class of nonlinear autonomous systems. A closed-loop system with a known control law is given; the problem is to determine performance criteria for which the given control law is optimum. Algebraic conditions that must be satisfied by a class of scalar performance criteria of the formV=\\int\\min{t}\\max{\\infty}[q(x)+h(u)]d_{\\tau}are obtained. It is shown that if the value of the optimum V0is required to be a quadratic formV^{o} = \\frac{1}{2}x'Mxof the current statex, and if certain state variables cannot be measured, thenMcannot be positive definite. The inverse optimum control problem corresponding to the problem of Lur'e is considered. Examples are given to illustrate the techniques and to compare the properties of a linear and nonlinear system having the same optimum performanceV^{0}(x)."
"This paper shows that a pursuit-evasion problem can be made amenable to solution with nonlinear programming algorithms by operating the pursuer and evader systems in a \"discrete\" mode of control and by choosing the cost function judiciously."
"In an earlier publication[1] the authors extended the results of Wonham and Johnson[2] by characterizing the nature of the (stable) singular strip for a given performance index without recourse to a special transformation to phase coordinates. The solution presented there[1] required solving a (quadratic) matrix Riccati equation; whereas here the singular strip and the corresponding stable optimal feedback control law are found by factoring a polynomial which is computationally much easier to accomplish. The final result is illustrated by a numerical example."
"A modification of the Popov criterion for absolute stability is presented. A new chart, designed to facilitate the application in practice of the new criterion, is introduced and its use is discussed. The range of use of the chart is then extended to encompass a previously published generalization of the Popov criterion. Then a procedure for use of the chart in conjunction with a Nichols chart in a simple and straightforward engineering procedure for designing absolutely stable single-loop nonlinear feedback systems is presented. An example is included to illustrate the procedure described."
"This paper deals with the optimal control of a perturbed rod which is fixed at one end while the control force is applied at the other end. By using the variational method, a Fredholm integral equation of the second kind, which is a necessary and sufficient condition for the optimal control function, is obtained. A sequence of approximate solutions for the integral equation is derived by using the fact that the kernel can be approximated by a suitable sequence of degenerate kernels. The condition for the convergence of the sequence of the approximate solutions is stated. This method is net limited to the problem discussed in this paper, but can be applied to the solution of integral equations whenever the kernel can be approximated by a sequence of degenerate kernels. The paper concludes with a numerical example."
"This paper considers the problem of asymptotic stability in the large of an autonomous system containing a single nonlinearity. The nonlinear function is assumed to belong to several subclasses of monotonically increasing functions in the sector(0, K), and the stability criterion is shown to be of the formRe Z(j\\omega) [G(j\\omega) +\\frac{1}{K}] -\\frac{\\delta'}{K} \\geq 0where the constant\\delta'is equal toZ(\\infty) - Z_{p}(\\infty)andZ_{p}(s)is a Popov multiplier. The multiplierZ(s)can, in general, have complex conjugate poles and zeros and is thus more general than the type of multipliers obtained in previous results. The nonlinear functions considered are odd monotonic functions, functions with a power law restriction, and a new class of functions with restricted asymmetry having the property|\\frac{f{\\theta}{f{\\-theta}|\\leq cfor all\\theta. Unlike in certain earlier publications, no upper bound is placed on the derivative of the nonlinearity here. The results obtained can be used to establish stability in some cases even when the Nyquist plot of the linear part transfer function lies in all four quadrants and the nonlinearity is not necessarily odd. Furthermore, it is shown that the conditions on the multiplier and, consequently, those on the linear part can be relaxed as the feedback function approaches linearity."
"An improved sufficient condition developed for the asymptotic stability of a sampled-data system having a single monotonic nonlinearity, with a slope in the sector(0, k_{2})and a pulse transfer functionG^{\\ast}(z), isRe [(1+X^{\\ast}(z)+Y^{\\ast}(z))(G^{\\ast}(z)+I/k_{2})]\\geq0forzon the unit circle, wherex(i) \\leq 0fori<0andx(i)=0fori>0, y(i) \\leq 0fori\\geq0andy(i)=0fori<0, and\\Sigma\\min{i=-\\infty}\\max{+\\infty} \\|x(i) + y(i)\\| < 1. An improved frequency domain condition is also presented for the case of the nonlinearity being odd as well as monotonic."
"The objective of this correspondence is to study the singular solutions of the optimal control which minimizes the performance index subject to s et of given conditions."
"Ho[2]has shown that problems of identification of state of noisy discrete dynamic systems are closely related to deterministic minimum norm. solutions of a set of overdetermined equations. This paper further applies this philosophy to the recursive identification of the transition matrix of a discretenth-order linear system, as the number of measurements of the state vector increases from one toN > n."
"The conjugate gradient algorithm of Fletcher and Reeves (1964) has recently been fruitfully incorporated in the numerical solution of optimal control problems. Unlike others who apply the algorithm as a searching mechanism in function space, this correspondence demonstrates the effectiveness of the algorithm as a tool for searching in the initial costate space. The technique presented herein is the penalty function approach suggested by Knapp and Frosts (ibid., voL AC-IO. pp. 189-193. April 1965) coupled with a conjugate gradient search."
"A standard linear programming code may be used to compute optimal trajectories for a linear discrete-time system with respect to a minimax criterion on either state or control trajectories. Arbitrary linear constraints, equality or inequality, constant or time-varying, may be placed on linear combinations of the state or control variables along their trajectories or at a fixed terminal time. An important feature of the method is that the dimension of the linear programming problem is independent of the dimension of the state space but depends entirely on the numbers of control variables, constraints, and time intervals. Optimal trajectories for a 21st- order system have been calculated in a few minutes of computer time."
"This paper presents a method of system identification based upon the techniques of pattern recognition. The method developed is an on-line error-correcting procedure which provides the coefficients of the Volterra series representation of the system. The systems considered are those with finite settling time and piecewise constant inputs. The method is extremely general, identifying both linear and nonlinear systems in the presence of noise, without the requirement of special test signals. The theoretical basis for this method lies in the observation that system identification is a special case of the general theory of pattern recognition. A system is treated as a transformation from the set of past inputs to the real line, the system output. The Volterra expansion treats this transformation as a hypersurface, the shape of which is determined by the Volterra kernels. However, the techniques of pattern recognition produce this type of surface as the discriminant function between pattern classes. Furthermore, these surfaces are iteratively obtained as more data are available. Consequently, the computational difficulties, which are encountered in obtaining the Volterra kernels, are circumvented by this iterative learning procedure."
"Although dynamic programming has long provided a powerful approach to optimization problems, its applicability has been somewhat limited because of the large computational requirements of the standard computational algorithm. In recent years a number of new procedures with greatly reduced computational requirements have been developed. The purpose of this paper is to survey a number of the more promising of those techniques. A review of the theory of dynamic programming and the standard computational algorithm is included. Several applications of the new techniques are discussed."
"The problem of estimating the region of asymptotic stability is formulated as a minimization problem, and the Davidon search routine is applied to obtain the minimum. This approach is compared with the tangency method of Rodden for one example problem."
"Many recent works are concerned with theoretical problems and engineering applications of integral pulse frequency modulation in control systems. It has been shown that a control system in which an integral pulse frequency modulator (IPFM) acts as an error modulator is not, in general, asymptotically stable, and the ultimate motion takes the form of irregular oscillations. By appropriate setting of modulator parameters it is possible to decrease the amplitude of limit oscillations, buthis results in poor system dynamics. Here, a modified IPFM is proposed in which the threshold level is a function of the time interval between succeeding pulses. This modulator retains the noise immunity of a usual IPFM with improved dynamic performance."
"In this correspondence a method of approximating a polynomial by a rational function is presented. The method is summarized by a matrix equation and an error function is obtained explicitly. An example is given and some applications in control theory are indicated."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"The matrix Riccati equation and its relation to optimization, sensitivity, and stability problems in linear systems is noted. Explicit solutions are summarized for several particular cases with emphasis on direct and unified proofs. In the stationary case, a direct proof is given for the well-known relation between solutions of the Riccati differential and algebraic equations."
"A fact of some historical interest to automatic control engineers, but one which is Swedish engineer Nils Gustaf Dalen was apparently not widely known, is that the awarded the Nobel Prize in Physics in 1912 for the invention of an automatic control system. Dahlen's invention was an acetylene gas accumulator and a regulating valve which together formed a system for automatically lighting signal beacons and buoys. Dalen's system greatly reduced the cost of maintaining remote, unmanned lighthouses, and at thsea me time improved their lighting efficiency, thereby providing a significant improvement in the safety of maritime navigation. Further details of Dalen's engineering career and his inventions may be found in the book .Vobel Prize Winners in Physics 1901-1950, by Heathcote (New York: Schuman, 1953)."
"Smmary form only given. This paper is concerned with the application of resistive coupling structures, particularly in form of films, in waveguide- coaxial- and stripline-technics. However, in our new class of applications to be discussed, resistive films are used in a position essentially per pendicular to the electric field. Extending first suggestions by M. Schneider (thesis 1959) such devices may be analyzed in the following manner: A rectangular waveguide, operated in ordinary H 10-mode be divided in two- in general unequal - parts by a plane parallel to the broad side. If the dividing plane is assumed to have infinite conductivity, the two independent waves traveling in the same direction may also be interpreted as a superposition of two modes, called homopolar and antipolar respectively."
"The complete solution for normal modes in a resistive-film-loaded rectangular waveguide is due to H.L. Knudsen. He showed how to solve the boundory-value problem of a guide divided into homogeneous regions by a number of vanes (of various resistivities) parallel to the side walls. Solutions were found in terms of longitudinal-section electric (LSE) and magnetic (LSM) modes. Boundary conditions in the Ioaded guide are that electric field transverse to the film must be continuous across it and that the discontinuity in magnetic field along the film must equal the sheet conduction current."
"In this paper, the author has presented a new idea for the synthesis method of the thin absorbing wall with ferrite plates for U.H.F. range anechoic chamber. It has been proved that the broadband absorbing wall made of dielectric material -such as foamed polystyrene captaining carbon powder or parallel resistive sheets -has the limit in its thickness, that is, the thickness of such type wall does not became shorter than 0.7/spl lambda//sub o/ where /spl lambda//sub o/ is the wavelength in the free space of the lowest frequency."
"A novel approach is presented in this paper for achieving waveguides with especially low loss. This new class of waveguides employs \"reactive walls\", and has possible application to long waveguide runs in millimeter wave or high power systems. These reactive walls are designed by initially choosing them to be periodic structures, in the transverse directions, which are operated in their stop band or below cut-off condition. Because the transverse decay is high, the periodic structure can be truncated, and a simple, closed, final form results. The type of periodic structure chosen for investigation was an array of parallel dielectric slabs. Various practical low-loss reactive wall waveguides are then derived from this generic theoretical configuration."
"A technique has been developed which enables two important classes of waveguide discontinuity problem to be solved on a computer by simple numerical methods. The classes are: 1. Transverse discontinuities. 2. Longitudinal discontinuities."
"The last few years have seen the publication of several studies of electromagnetic resonances of free dielectric samples. This is explained by the high Q factar that can be obtained with a little space-factor, when using high dielectric constant materials and a low dissipation factor (tg /spl delta/ ), The resonators used lend themselves to a number of different applications. However their use requires a good knowledge of their spectra and field configuration."
"The present status of the research on millimeter wave communication in Japan is reviewed. This paper begins with a description of a millimeter-wave PCM transmitter assembly composed of an 12 GHz band diode switch and a quadrupler. This assembly was developed for the purpose of building an experimental PCM repeater for a long distance circular-electric-waveguide communication system. A repeater circuitry associated with this assembly is described. Germanium silber-bonded diode GSB3 generates above 0 dBm of millimeter continuous wave in the avalanche bias region. New components for repeater including this diode which would offer advantages in simplifying repeater, are also discussed."
"For mm- and sub-mm waves, standard-size rectangular waveguide has several drawbacks, which are more or less overcome by the use of oversized waveguide. The latter has the following advantages: 1) The broadband property (possibly one frequency decade) which is shared by the greater part of the components discussed in this paper. Also simultaneous transmission of several frequencies with large separations (multiplex) is possible. Other broadband transmission lines, e. g. coaxial- or strip line deserve no consideration due to their high losses. 2) The comparatively low value of the attenuation. 3) The large physical dimensions."
"Summary form only given. The surface conductance of superconductors in the frequency region of microwaves is by several orders of magnitude higher than that of normal conducting copper. This can be well understood from the two-fluid model of the superconductors and the non-local behaviour of the metallic electrons at low temperatures."
"Frequency transformations are commonly used in lumped-element network theory to convert a given filter network into a related filter network. For example, an often used frequency transformation is s'/spl rarr/ As , where the symbol /spl rarr/ stands for \"is replaced by,\" A is a constant, the primed variable is that of the original network, and the unprimed variable is that of the transformed network. Transformation is used to scale the bandwidth of the existing network to another preferred value. Other commonly used frequency transformations in lumped filter theory are s'/spl rarr/ As , (Iowpass to highpass transformation) s' /spl rarr//spl omega/ (s//spl omega//sub o/ )+( /spl omega//sub o/ /s )(Iowpass to bandpass transformatian) s'/spl rarr/ /spl lineover/ /spl omega/ (s//spl omega//sub o/ )+( /spl omega//sub o/ /s) (Iowpass to bandstop transformation) It is emphasized that in all cases the usefulness af these transformations lies in the fact that their effects on the responses of the network are easily related to changes in the element values of the network. Because such frequency transformations are available, a given Iowpass filter may function as a prototype for a number of different types of filters, obviating the compilation of a multitude of designs for Iowpass, highpass, bandpass, and bandstop filters."
"Among the simplest and least expensive structures which serve as band rejections filters in the microwave region is the coaxial waveguide with a cylindrical cavity forming a discontinuity in the outer conductor. When the outer conductor of a coaxial waveguide is perturbed by a shorted radial transmission line, the structure acquires a zero of transmission for the TEM mode at a resonant frequency that depends on as many as six parameters. Experience indicates that in restricted regions certain approximate methods, in which one or several of the parameters are neglected, produce fairly accurate results. However, discrepancies of 5% or more are encountered in other regions where the same approximations ought to be valid. The approximations most frequently used correspond to either one of the following situations: (a) total disregard of the fringing fields caused by the two close discontinuities, in which case the cylindrical cavity is represented by a series impedance equal to the input impedance of a shorted radial transmission line; (b) consideration of the fringing fields associated with each discontinuity, but neglect of the interaction between the two. In the latter, the discontinuities are accounted for by equivalent shunt lumped reactive elements, however, they must be far enough apart so that the interaction is indeed negligible."
"The high selectivity and compact form of digital-eliptic filters [1-2] makes them attractive for use in wideband diplexers. The theory of diplexers has been described in several references [3-6] where it is shown that a perfect match at the input of a diplexer requires the component filters to be complementary. Filters with equal-ripple response in both pass band and stop band can be designed to be complementary; however, it has been pointed out [4] that this places an undesirable restriction on the isolatian characteristic. The use of \"pseudo-complementary\" filters [4-5] allows the achievement of equal-ripple designs with high isolation characteristics at the cost of a slight increase in input VSWR."
"An outgrowth of development work on rapid-scan receivers has been a broadband micrawave linear-delay compression filter. This filter utilizes a folded-tape transmission line (FTML) between ground planes to achieve a time-bandwidth product (compression factor) of up to 1000 with bandwidths of 1 GHz or more. A filter has been constructed using the FTML technique for use in a Navy high-resolution RADAR techniques investigation; measurements on this filter are presented as experimental verification of the design technique."
"This paper deals with 3-port power dividers which are optimal in the sense of excellent impedance match at all ports, low insertion loss in the normal mode of operation, and high isolation between the output ports. These optimal 3-port characteristics are in large measure common to those of 4-port hybrid-T junctions with a terminated sum or difference port; furthermore, the design of these optimal 3-ports may be derived from corresponding terminated hybrid-T prototypes. Their major advantages over the latter reside in relative compactness and/or simplicity of structure. The discussion here emphasizes a unified approach applicable to the design of a whole class of junctions; in fact, three such power dividers were designed, constructed, and tested."
"The ultimate size of many microwave components such as beam-forming networks, switching trees, amplifiers, mixers, comb filters, etc., is related to the size of a 90/spl deg/ coupler. The cross-section of a coupler can be reduced by means of todays integrated circuit technology. This paper presents a method of reducing the length of a coupler over and above length reductions possible by means of the utilization of a high dielectric constant medium."
"In the conventional 3 db directional coupler, shown schematically in Figure 1a, equal output signals appear at ports 2 and 3 when port 1 is used as the input. No signal appears at port 4. The effective dielectric constant for the even mode (/spl epsi/re) must be approximately equal to the effective dielectric constant for the odd mode (/spl epsi/ro) to assure equal propagation velocities which are essential for this type of coupler."
"The paper reports a new type of ferrite device, a singIe junction, nonreciprocal hybrid. There are four symmetrical ports exiting from the junction any one of which may be considered the input. The input energy splits into the two side ports with the signals 90/spl deg/ out of phase from each other. The opposite port is isolated from the input. The phase shift between any two ports is nonreciprocal. Further, with sharts placed properly on the side ports, the device becomes a gyrator. First, the realizability of the device is shown by satisfying the unitary condition of the idealized scattering matrix. Then the operation of the hybrid is explained by the combination of two degenerate modes of the junction. Finally, the performance of an actual L-band model is shown."
"The nonlinearity and characteristics deviation of ferrite caused by rising temperature should be considered in a CW high power circulator. The nonlinearity of ferrite operated at above resonance occurs at a comparatively low power level in a polycrystal. Such a phenomena is not observed in a single crystal, as shown in Fig. 1(a), which shows the experimental results of low power simulation by a lumped element circulator. And the nonlinearity takes place only under CW power and not under pulsed power, as illustrated in Fig. 1(b). The above phenomena are supposedly caused by the Iocal heating by the spin wave generation around pore regions of polycrystals where the internal DC field is below resonance by the demagnetizing and anisotropic field in their vicinities."
"This paper discusses the development of an S-band latching circulator capable of being switched in 10 nanoseconds. The switch operates with good isolation and insertion loss characteristics and requires relatively low switching energy."
"For a long time, ferrite-junction circulators required an externally applied dc magnetic field provided by either permanent magnets or electromagnets. Recently, significant progress has been made in the development of switchable, latching, single-function, ferrite circulators in waveguide and stripline circuits. This paper presents approximate theoretical results and initial performance data on a new type of circulator, a three-part, strip-line, latching, switchable circulator illustrated schematically in Fig. 1. This circulator employs two latched ferrite elements placed between a central conductor and two ground planes. Each element provides a closed magnetic path through the ferrite cylinder and ring, and two ferrite or high-remanence metal discs. The ferrite operates at remanence after passage of a direct current pulse. Switching (i. e., reversal of transmitting and isolating parts) is achieved by reversal of the polarity of the pulse."
"There exist two basic approaches for the construction of a latching junction circulator in rectangular waveguide. The first of these utilizes a ferrite element having a closed magnetic path contained entirely within itself (that is, the entire ferrite toroid is contained within the region of microwave interaction). Structures of this type have been used previously to produce circulation over a bandwidth of approximately 15%. Devices of this type may be called internal return path circulators. The second approach requires that the magnetic return path be outside the microwave structure and shielded from the RF energy. Devices of this type are called external return path circulators."
"The need for a small, lightweight, high-power circulator for duplexer operatian at 9375 MHz has led to the development of a symmetrical E plane, Y junction circulator capable of handling in excess of 1/2 MW peak and 650W average power. This does not represent the ultimate, however, since equipment limitations allow tests only up to these powers. The circulator will perform adequately in the frequency range of 9.0 to 9.6 GHz. Figure 1 is a plot of insertion loss as a function of frequency at low power levels. A resonant absorption peak appeared in the frequency range; however, this peak can be moved from one frequency to another with only a slight field adjustment."
"In recent years, numerous latching ferrite phase shifters have been designed in rectangular and circular waveguide, stripline, and slow-wave structures. In all these devices, metal walls have surrounded the ferrite and played a major role in guiding the wave. A new device is now described in which no metal walls surround the phase shifter and the ferrite itself guides the wave. This unique device is intended for use in a scanning lens as shown in Figure 1. In Figure 1A we see a conventional optically-fed array in which a signal is radiated from a feed, captured by antennas at one face of the array, phase shifted in waveguide or coaxial devices, and reradiated by antennas at the opposite face. In Figure 1B the separate components of the conventional lens have been replaced by an array of ferrite tubes capped by dielectric impedance-matching elements. A wave is captured at one surface of the lens, guided by the ferrite, phase shifted according to the remanent magnetization of the ferrite, and reradiated at the opposite face. The latching wires which pass through the center of the ferrite are small enough to have a negligible effect on the RF propagation."
"Theory of Operation - The theory of operation of a non-reciprocal circularly polarized (CP) phase shifter has been described in a paper by the authors, and the PIP device is simply a modification. The CP phaser can be converted into a PIP device through the modification indicated in Figure 1. A second ferrite rod is placed in tandem with respect to the first, and a coil is wrapped around the second rod in the opposite direction so that the internal magnetization of the second rod opposes that of the first. Since the magnetic fields are reversed for the two rods, the phase-current characteristics for each rod are mirror images. For a given positive value of coil current (I/sub o/) and right-handed circular polarization input, rod No. 2 delivers a phase delay of /spl phi//sub 2/, and rod No. 1 delivers a phase advance of /spl phi//sub 1/. The total reciprocal phase shift through the device is, therefore, a phase delay of /spl phi/ = |/spl phi//sub 2/| - |/spl phi//sub 1/|. If left-handed circular polarization were applied to the phase shifter instead of right-handed, the first rod would give a phase delay, and the second would give a phase advance for the same direction of coil current. In other words, the roles of the two rods would be reversed, but the phase shift through the device would still be a phase delay of /spl phi/."
"When the microwave magnetic field applied to a ferrite polarised by a static magnetic field set to a value below that required for resonance exceeds a certain threshold value, unstable spin waves cause absorption of energy in the ferrite. This effect, termed the subsidiary absorption, manifests itself in a ferrite component as a non-linear increase in attenuation above a critical power level and can far exceed the attenuation at low power levels. There are two ways af suppressing such non-linear loss. One is to reduce the grain size of the ferrite so as to break up the unstable spin waves; the other achieves the same result by frequency modulation of the microwave field or amplitude modulation of the applied static field. These modulation methods are discussed in this paper, and for reasons outlined later, only the parallel-pump instability is considered."
"Recently it has been reported that a significant increase in peak power performance could be achieved in Iatching type ferrite phase shifters through the use of materials of low /spl omega//sub M///spl omega/,/spl omega//sub M/= /spl gamma/4/spl pi/M/sub s/. Because of the obvious importance of such a possibility, we decided to examine the dependence of peak power threshold upon /spl omega//sub M///spl omega/."
"The onset of non-linear loss in remanent ferrite devices is a complicated problem which has interested several workers in the past half decade. The essential difficulty with the problem is that ferrite in the remanent state possesses localized areas (domains) wherein the effective fields can be as low as the anisotropy field, H/sub A/, and as high as 4/spl pi/M/sub s/ + H/sub A/. Recently, Betts measured the threshold power in a helical phase shifter on a wide variety of substituted garnet materials. Betts observed non-linear thresholds which had escaped the notice of other workers by using measurement procedures sensitive to attenuation changes of .01 db. He was able to show that the threshold field varied roughly as m/sub s//sup -2/ even for m/sub s/ values of less than .35."
"Concerted efforts expended in the development of waveguide ferrite digital phase shifters have resulted in significant contributions to a precise understanding of these devices. The technology has now progressed to a point where rather definite performance capabilities and limitations can be discussed. Achievable phase shift and loss are normally restricted by constraints imposed by the intended application. Optimum performance clearly must be defined in the light of size, weight, and power handling ability requirements."
"The use of digital computers as a tool in the analysis of ferrite devices permits a significant change in design philosophy. It is becoming increasingly apparent that no Ionger is it necessary to restrict the role of the theoretical analysis of ferrite components to that of providing design guidelines. To be sure, providing general guidelines and developing meaningful physical and mathematical models is and will remain an important task of the analyst, especially in the investigation of new devices. In addition to this traditional role, however, through computer-aided analysis, precise design information can now in many cases be provided. Once the analysis programs for a basic configurational type are established, a few minutes of computation time can suffice to examine a variety of trial device configurations having different dimensions and/or materiel parameters. By taking advantage of this capability, a large portion of the experimental cut-and-try normally required to arrive at a satisfactory design can be replaced by a few runs on the computer."
"Considerable attention is being given to the development of miniature microwave components for phased array applications. The H-guide configuration shown schematically in Fig. 1 and in cross-section in Fig. 2 can be miniaturized readily by employing a dielectric rib with a high dielectric constant and by closing the magnetic flux path outside the microwave region with a composite magnetic circuit. By contrast, waveguide remanence phase shifters cannot be miniaturized as readily because a reduction of width increases the frequency sensitivity, and a reduction of height produces a loss of phase shift as a result of the corner effects."
"The object of this program has been to evaluate the utility of ferrite microstrip devices which use externally applied magnetic fields as opposed to latched remnant fields. Although the latched devices call for less average magnetic field current, devices with externally applied fields show promise of greater figure of merit. Since Reggia-Spencer devices can achieve figures of merit in excess of 1000/spl deg/ / dB, it was decided to investigate the potentialities of externally magnetized devices in an attempt to increase figure of merit and bandwidth, and to reduce size and weight compared to the Reggia-Spencer device."
"Periodic structures are used as filters and as interaction structures in microwave tubes. In this paper some of the effects of anisotropic loading are discussed. It is shown that plane structures can be used for separating modes and that proper loading of waveguide circuits with anisotropic media causes their /spl omega/ - /spl beta/ plots to be shifted. A ring circuit is discussed which has the nonreciprocal property that the phase shift from one port to another is the negative of the phase shift in the reverse direction. In all cases the medium is assumed to be Iossless ferrite; however, the conclusions also apply to plasmas and optically active media."
"Microstrip transmission-line components are finding wide application in microwave integrated circuits. Properties of the microstrip structure have previously been investigated for semiconductor dielectrics, low-dielectric (k<10) ceramics, sapphire, and Polyguide. This paper will present the properties of high-dielectric (k>10) substrates in the microstrip configuration."
"Among the various approaches to the design of microwave integrated circuits, thick film hybrids combine a relative ease of manufacturing with excellent performance at the lower portion of the microwave frequency spectrum where high performance semiconductor devices are now available in a wide variety. When using conventional ceramic substrates for such circuitry, limitations exist in solving the problem of obtaining maximum degree of compactness at very low impedance levels required for optimum power handling capability of active semiconductor devices. One approach to this problem discussed here is the utilization of microstrip transmission line circuits on substrates with very high dielectric constants (/spl epsi//sub r/ = 33). A theoretical analysis of the microstrip transmission Iine structure, when based on conformal mapping techniques with the usual simplifying assumption of homogeneity throughout the entire field region, is entirely inaccurate when applied to high dielectric constants as considered here. A solution of this problem is presented which applied well known finite difference approximations of Laplace's equation in combination with a successive over-relaxatian program on a digital Computer."
"Experimental and theoretical techniques are described which have been found useful in the development of integrated amplifiers for use at 1.2 Gc/sec and 2.0 Gc/sec. The three most important design objectives are that these amplifiers shall: (a) have adequate bandwidth. (b) be of small dimensions. (c) have low ohmic losses. These requirements often conflict and the design is usually a compromise. However, for the RCA developmental transistors which we have used, matching circuits giving 1 dB bandwidths of greater than 10% can be attained with combinations of two step transformers and open and shorted stubs."
"A number of 3 db couplers have been designed for microstrip transmission lines utilizing materials with dielectric constants between 9 and 11 for integration with other microstrip elements to form balanced mixers, power dividers, phase shifters, etc. Two- and three-arm branch-line couplers and the T.E.M. back coupler have been developed on alumina, gallium arsenide and sapphire between 8-18 GHz/s. For initial evaluation, the couplers were fabricated on small area substrates and housed in metal boxes to minimize the possibility of mode conversion and loss by radiation. Microstrip line lengths external to the couplers were quite small and measured loss values were primarily due to path lengths within the coupler. Measurements were made with coaxial equipment after matching the junction discontinuity that normally occurs between coaxial and microstrip lines."
"The cost of manufacturing an integrated circuit is inversely related to the number of circuits processed simultaneously on a single starting wafer. Most of the work on microwave integrated circuits reported to date has concentrated on applications using microstrip lines deposited on high-resistivity semiconducting and ceramic substrates. At X-band frequencies and above the overall size of the distributed microstrip circuits is relatively small, but at Iower frequencies (L- and S-band) the circuits tend to became large enough so that it is difficult to process many on a single substrate. At L- and S-band, however, lumped elements may be used with a considerable size reduction. Circuits can be fabricated by low-frequency integrated circuit and device technology that are sufficiently small compared to a wavelength so that they behave as true lumped elements up to reasonably high frequencies. There are many applications in which the reduction in circuit Q for lumped elements due to the low volume for energy storage is out-weighed by the advantages of size reduction."
"In a recent report by the author results were presented for an X-band 3-port microstrip circulator. A YIG disc was embedded in a ceramic substrate and copper lines, disc, and ground plane were deposited on this composite substrate. Figure 1 is a photograph of a typical microstrip circulator. Unfortunately, cementing a YIG disc into a ceramic substrate is not an ideal approach to integrated microwave circuits. Ideally, an all garnet substrate would be more practical by combining simplicity of design with ease of fabrication. This paper reports the results obtained with all garnet substrate 3-port microstrip circulators. Results are reported using an electromagnet and a small permanent magnet. In additian, a latched versian of a microstrip circulator was built and successfully tested. The latched version lends itself to simple mass production techniques."
"Microwove integrated circuit components continue to be reported and in many applications have exhibited performance equal to or exceeding existing conventional components. Most of these components fall into the category of single frequency band operation, as is normal for phase shifters, mixers, amplifiers, T-R switches, etc., and single values for wave propogation factor and transmission line loss are adequate for design parameters. Multiplier generation involves two or more frequency bands of operation and consequently poses the additional problems of treating the propogation medium and its microwave circuitry losses over a large frequency range. In microstrip transmission line this problem is particularly severe because of the variatian of the velocity of propogation factor as a function of frequency as well as impedance. This effect has been characterized for ceramic substrate by Vincent, and results indicate that it can be minimized by choosing impedance of 50 ohms or greater. Circuit losses increase rapidly as a function of wavelength, however, and can be minimized only by keeping microstrip line lengths to a minimum. It follows from these considerations that multiplier designs, in particular the multifrequency circuits such as shorted stubs, etc., should contain microstrip lines of 50 ohm or greater where feasible, and should be of minimum length, especially for higher frequencies."
"The circuit analysis of microwave networks composed of distributed transmission lines and lumped circuit elements soon become complex when the transmission lines employed have significant loss that must be considered. The many possible combinations of Iumped circuit parameters and the use of shorted and open stubs to form resonant circuits useful for the control of microwave energy make it very necessary to use the computer to do the complex calculations for circuit analysis. Such a program must contain the possibility then for the user to specify not only the network numerical values but the way in which these network components are connected. In general the characteristics of a network can be computed from its ABCD matrix. The specification of a network is then broken down into its simplest form called a SECTION, each SECTION being specified by eleven parameter values or circuit TYPE designations. When each SECTION is so specified the computer calculates the transfer ABCD matrix for this section of the network and combines this matrix to the preceding SECTIONS by matrix multiplication before considering the next section of the network. A Flow Diagram for the computer program is shown in Fig. 1. After the first data card containing a name and number for indentification is read the input data for the first case or problem is read. The computer then prints out the titles and input data so specified for the user to check the PARAMETER values and control TYPE numbers given in the data. The specified PARAMETER changes are made in the SECTIONS designated and a set of changes called the VARIABLE is made to the network. The VARIABLE becomes the horizontal axis for plotting the characteristics of the network and the PARAMETER changes generate a family of curves for the network analysis. After each change in the VARIABLE the ABCD matrix is calculated and/or stored in core for later plotting. After all changes in the VARIABLE and PARAMETER are complete, a tape is generated to control the plotting of the network characteristics by the High Speed Microfilm Recorder SC-4020."
"Recent achievements and state-of-the-art in the bulk semiconductor microwave devices in Japan will be described. The discussions will be limited to GaAs Gunn oscillators unless otherwise stated. Devices other than Gunn oscillators will be discussed in the final section."
"Summary form only given, as follows. The state of the art of the (IMPATT) Avalanche Transit Time Diodes will be discussed. A brief qualitative discussion of the operating principles of these devices will be followed by a detailed summary of the experimental and theoretical advances to date."
"In 1965 Irwin and Swan of BTL, and also Varian Associates in February 1967, demonstrated that series-connecting of two or more varactors enables one to obtain on the order of five times increase in power handling capability of a varactor multiplier, compared to a single element device. They showed that the total BVR is the sum of the BVR's of the individual devices, the C/sub j/ is the series sum of the capacitances, and the f/sub c/ is approximately equal to that of the individual chips. If N devices are series-connected and if the capacitance of the assembly is to be kept constant, the individual chip can have a value of capacitance approximately N times as large as that of the series-connected assembly. This can provide a thermal resistance decreased by about the same ratio, provided adequate heat sinking is provided. The author of the above papers partially demonstrated the possible advantages of series connection of varactors by soldering two, three or four packaged varactors together, one on top of the other. They did not realize the full power dissipation capability of series-connected varactors, because, in their assemblies, only the bottom varactor which was attached to the heat sink, was efficiently cooled."
"The use of dynamic impedance contours in the design and evaluation of microwave varactor circuits has been described by Kurokawa. His work was directed primarily toward parametric amplifiers. Kurokawa developed Iossless circuit models to represent input and pump coupling networks for varactor diodes in microwave circuits. C. B. Swan used similar methods in the evaluation of a microwave varactor tripler. Swan included one component of circuit loss in his model and explained the characteristics of optimum dynamic impedance contours for a tripler. We present optimum contours for the input and output networks of all varactor multipliers and a simple calculation of overall circuit efficiency in the presence of Iossy coupling networks. We also present the results for a varactor doubler designed for 23.5-47 GHz with an output power of 173 mW and an efficiency of 33%."
"Voltage tunable oscillators covering the full octave range 1 to 2 GHz have been constructed using either a YIG resonator or a varactor diode as the variable element. It is the purpose of this paper to present a guide to the design of these oscillators and to compare their performance and their Iimitations."
"Electronic tuning of avalanche transit time oscillators has been treated explicitly by Gilden and Hines and both theoretically and experimentally by others. Since moderate output power from these devices is now being realized, the ease of electronic tunability suggests their use as transmitters in miniature solid state altimeters and low power communication systems. This paper presents experimental data taken to determine the frequency modulation characteristics of avalanche transit time oscillators."
"In a long-distance communication system by means of pulse code modulation, repeaters are set along the route of transmission in order to regenerate pulses which have been degraded by several types of distortion due to noise, bandwidth limitations and other effects. Recently, a bit rate of PCM shows a extending tendency to much higher, for the transmission of television, picturephone and other broadband signals. Therefore, functions of the pulse regenerator are required to handle higher bit rate signals for the previously mentioned uses. The methods of regeneration and the experiments described here are concerned with regenerating high speed PCM-AM pulses directly at 10.6 GHz, using a hysteresis characteristic and a locking oscillation characteristic of an Esaki-diode oscillatar. Method of the regeneration"
"The conductivity of a solid-state plasma which consists of free electrons and holes in a solid such as a semiconductor becomes a tensor quantity under a dc magnetic field. If we take a coordinate system in such a way that the dc magnetic field B/sub o/ lies along the z-axis, the tensor conductivity may be expressed by /spl =over sigma/= [/spl sigma//sub perp/, -/spl sigma//sub x/, o, /spl sigma//sub x/, /spl sigma//sub perp/, o, o, o, /spl sigma//sub 11/] where if we assume that n/sub e//spl mu//sub e/>>n/sub h//spl mu//sub h/ as in the case of an n-type semiconductor, we have /spl sigma//sub 11/ =qn/sub e//spl mu//sub e/ / (1+j/spl omega//spl tau//sub e/),/spl sigma//sub perp/= /spl sigma//sub 11/ / (1+/spl alpha//sup 2//sub e/) /spl sigma//sub x/ = /spl sigma//sub 11//spl alpha/ sub e/ / (1+ /spl alpha//sup 2//sub e/), and /spl alpha//sub e/ = /spl mu//sub e/B/sub o/ / (1+j /spl omega//spl tau//sub e/). /spl omega/ is the angular frequency, q the electron charge, n the density, /spl mu/ the mobility, and /spl tau/ the relaxation time. The subscripts e and h refer to electrons and holes, respectively. Variations of /spl sigma//sub 11/, /spl sigma//sub perp/, and /spl sigma//sub x/ with B/sub o/ are shown in Fig. 1."
"A continuous phase modulator can be made by placing a varactor diode on one terminal of a circulator. Power in the first port of the circulator is reflected by the diode on the second port, and emerges from the third port with a phase and amplitude dictated by the reflection coefficient of the diode. As the reverse bias voltage of the varactor is varied the reflection coefficient magnitude remains high and the phase changes. The modulator requires very little modulation power and responds quickly to changes in modulation voltage. The phase modulator typically has a non-linear voltage-phase relationship, insertion loss that varies with phase, and less than 180/spl deg/ modulation. For most applications the phase should be linear with voltage, the insertion loss should not vary and the modulator should be able to provide 360/spl deg/ modulation."
"Step and impulse waveforms are serving an increasingly important role in modern microwave technology. Historically, RADAR has been the most important application for abruptly changing waveforms. An important new application is time-domain reflectometry; where abrupt base-band waveforms are used to resolve transmission line discontinuities. Baseband waveforms (those whose spectrum begins essentially at zero frequency) are particularly useful for observing discontinuities in characteristic impedance. When frequency sensitive discontinuities are observed, however, the resolution will depend on the amount of high-frequency energy available in the waveform."
"Previously, broadband SPDT switches used, principally, diodes in series with the transmission line -- sacrificing high power performance because of the difficulty with removal of the diodes' heat and compromising switching performance due to the inconvenience in tuning to maximize the isolatian. Means for broadbanding the \"on\" state have been suggested, but hitherto undemonstrated is the effectiveness of the approach as well as the availability of a counterpart solution to the problem of broadbanding the \"off\", or isolation behaviour of a practical switch in which some parasitic series inductance is found. This paper presents: 1) data for a 1-2 Ghz, SPDT, 1.2 db max. loss and 40 db min. isolation, switch tested to 6 kw pk power at 1 /spl mu/ sec. pulse length and 0.001 duty cycle 2) a design method to permit use of large diode capacity 3) a method for evaluating the effect of parasitic inductance on the \"on\" state 4) a criterion for minimizing diode ohmic losses 5) tuning requirements to achieve high isolation over broad bandwidths."
"Conventional high power diode limiters use a multiplicity of varactor diodes in various microwave circuit configurations. The higher power handling PIN diode is normally unsuitable as a passive limiter due to its slow speed of response. The I region thickness of this PIN ranges between one and five mils with a voltage breakdown range of 200 to 1000 volts. By reducing the I region thickness to less than 0.5 mils, a junction is achieved which will respond rapidly enough to limit effectively at frequencies up to the UHF range. The resulting reduction in junction breakdown voltage is not detrimental as the diode is in a low impedance state during application of high power."
"A diagram of the microstrip ferroelectric phase shifter is shown in Fig. 1(a). The nominal thickness of the ferroelectric material is 10 mils. As the dielectric constant of the ferroelectric is very high, the impedance af the microstrip line (~15 mils wide) is comparatively low. For matching purposes quarter-wave transformers of Ti0/sub 2/ were used. A ceramic ferroelectric material containing 68.5 per cent SrTi0/sub 3/ and 31.5 per cent PbTi0/sub 3/ (PS 68.5) was used in the experiments. For a TEM-mode propagation the insertion phase of a transmission line of length 1 is given by /spl beta/1. Fig. 2 shows the insertion phase of one of the units as measured with a phase discriminator. The total insertion phase at 3.05 Gc/S is 4.434/spl lambda/. Substracting the insertion phase of the connectors and the quarter-wave transformers the insertion phase of the ferroelectric material alone is 3.486/spl lambda/. On the application of a biasing voltage, the differential phase shift is given by /spl Delta//ppl phi/= (/spl beta/1- /spl beta/2) where /spl beta/1 and /spl beta/2 are the phase constants without and with bias respectively. or /spl Delta//spl phi/= 2/spl pi/l / /spl lambda//sub o/ /spl radic//spl epsi//sub 1/ [1-/spl radic/ /spl epsi//sub 2/ / /spl epsi//sub 1/ ] where /spl lambda//sub o/. is the free-space wavelength and /spl epsi//sub 1/ and/spl epsi//sub 2/ are the values of the dielectric constant with zero bias and with a bias voltage respectively. The insertion loss is /spl alpha//sub d/= 27 tan /spl delta/ db/ /spl lambda/ where tan /spl delta/ is the loss tangent of the material."
"A microwave phase shifter (x-band) which utilizes plasma varactors has been developed. It has demonstrated continuous phase shifting of 360 degrees with low rf loss, low noise and high average rf power handling capability heretofore unobtainable in previous microwave plasma devices or in solid state devices. The plasma varactor is a high Q variable microwave reactance produced by means of a low pressure and highly efficient electron injection mode of gas discharge. Overall rf losses, including the reflection, circuit and plasma losses, smaller than 0.5 dB have been obtained over a bandwidth of 12% at X-band for continuously variable phase angles up to more than 360/spl deg/. An average power handling capability in excess of 200 W has been obtained from this device. Excess noise temperature of the phase shifter is smaller than 100/spl deg/K for phase shifts up to 360/spl deg/ over the same frequency range. Extrapolations from the performance of this prototype indicate that the average rf power handling capability could be increased to the multi-KW level, without deterioration of the other characteristics."
"We have recently investigated several possible methods of generating nanosecond pulses of relatively large amplitude. By employing a 25-kilowatt magnetron X-band pulser, a four-port circulator, and two thyratron waveguide switches, we have generated a 19-kilowatt ouput pulse (see figure 1) the half-power pulsewidth of which is 10 nanoseconds. The risetimes and falltimes are 2 and 4 nanoseconds, respectively. The width at -10, -13, -20, and -23 dB dawn from the peak value is 12.5, 15, 20, and 22 nanoseconds, respectively. Increasing the peak power level to 50 kW resulted in a narrower pulse (~7 nanoseconds) with a risetime of 1.5 nanoseconds. Though the experiment was Iimited by the maximum power output of the Iaboratory magnetron, theory indicates even shorter pulses with steeper skirts at higher power levels (~1/4 megawatt in X-band)."
"The existence of materials having a very low acoustic loss per wavelength, and the recent marked advances in the performance of transducers at microwave frequencies, suggest that it might prove possible to construct microwave components using acoustic waves. The main attraction of this possibility is seen to lie in the size reduction, by a factor of 10/sup 5/, which is implied."
"Summary form only given, as follows. A number of approaches have been investigated or suggested which can delay and process microwave signals by using electromagnetic, acoustic and magnetic propagation in materials. Some of these approaches will be summarized and their capabilities and limitations will be discussed. Delay, delay variation, bandwidth, dispersion and attenuation will be considered, including their dependence on the available coherent of materials. Optical approaches involving coherent Brillouin scattering will be included in the discussion."
"This paper is concerned with the design and development of broadband, fixed tuned, non-dispersive delay lines. These delay lines utilize multi-layer transducers incorporating C dS thin films of the type used by deKlerk, sapphire delay media, and suitable electrical matching networks in either coaxial or strip transmission lines. The design of two broadband units are presented which operate at center frequencies of 1.80 GHz and exhibit 50 db bandwidths of approximately 50% with midband loss of approximately 40 db. The experimental data for these units are found to be in good agreement with theoretical values."
"A magnetoelastic wave propagating in yttrium iron garnet (YIG) can be frequency translated or frequency modulated by pulsing the biasing magnetic field. Room temperature experiments of this kind are described here for a"
"Dispersive spin wave modes in low-loss single crystals of yttrium-iron-garnet (YIG) have been recognized for some time as candidates for microwave \"matched filter\" devices with pulse compression applications. In assessing magnetostatic modes for these applications, comparison with magnetoelastic modes in unavoidable. Recently, magnetoelastic pulse compression experiments have been carried out by several investigatars. Although wide bandwidths and prospects for linear delay dispersion are evident, there are several delicate problems which must be satisfactorily resolved in any practical device, including magnetoelastic defocusing effects, amplitude fluctuations, satisfactory two-port configurations which take full advantage of the available bandwidths, and the onset of low-level spinwave nonlinearities. Conceding advantages of bandwidth and delay dispersion linearity to the magnetoelastic mode, magnetostatic dispersive lines may well be highly satisfactory where these considerations, are not of prime importance."
"Single crystal YIG dispersive delay lines show great promise as pulse compression filters. Very large bandwidths can be obtained by using magnetoelastic waves in axially magnetized YIG rods. Bandwidths up to 250 MHz have recently been reported in the literature. The dispersion of a YIG rod is nonlinear, but it can be linearized by suitably shaping the internal magnetic field. By bonding YAG quarter-wave plates to the ends of the YIG rod, the filter can be changed from a reflection mode to a transmission made of operation, with a substantial reduction of direct undelayed leakage. Theoretical and experimental results on these aspects of magnetoelastic pulse compressian filters will be described in this paper."
"The author index contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in the proceedings record."
"Presents the cover from the proceedings of this conference."
"Provides a schedule of conference events and a listing of which papers were presented in each session."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Theoretical and experimental analyses on the imaging properties of gas lenses have been performed. The ray trajectory, ray matrix, lens formula, and optical transfer function of gas lenses are discussed. A gas lens of laminar flow type, using temperature gradients of air, has been made and some experiments on the image formation by the gas lens are conducted. To estimate the lens effect, the line spread functions are measured changing the variables which are concerned with the imaging action of the gas lens. The focal length of the gas lens is obtained from the characteristics of the line spread functions. The space-frequency bandwidth of the gas lens is expressed by the optical transfer functions obtained from the line spread functions and from the images of the Simens-star. Further, a telescope arrangement has been made using a gas lens for an object lens and a concave mirror for an eye lens. Experiments were performed with this telescope."
"The input resistance and noise performance of multiple-idler parametric amplifiers are examined in this paper. General expressions applicable to any given amplifier are derived. Simplifications resulting from a sinusoidal elastance variation permit writing an expression for the input resistance of an amplifier having any given number of idlers by inspection. These expressions are then applied to examine the properties of an amplifier having two idlers. The conditions required for minimum noise performance are derived, and it is found that high pump frequencies and external resistive loading of one idler are required. When the two-idler amplifier is compared to a conventional single-idler amplifier under those conditions which permit operation of the same diode at the same signal and pump frequencies, it is found that an improvement in noise figure results. However, the single idler amplifier pumped at the optimum frequency is capable of better noise performance, because minimum noise conditions cannot be satisfied for the two-idler device at this pump frequency. When below-signal-frequency pumping is utilized in the two-idler amplifier, the reduction in required pump power is substantial, but the noise figure is degraded by a minimum of approximately 3 dB."
"A simple diode parametric amplifier is described which has been designed for use at S, C, and X band frequencies. Bandwidth and noise measurements show the performance to be substantially in agreement with the theoretical predictions. Details are given of compensating circuits which improve the gain-frequency response of the amplifier by up to 5.6 times."
"A discussion of the application of point contact, electrically formed semiconductor junctions to harmonic generating applications is presented. Three different combinations of materials are considered. First, the more popular phosphor-bronze point on gallium arsenide combination is discussed. Results with this material combination when used as millimeter wave multipliers are given as a reference point. The combination n-GaAs/Cu is then examined. The slope parameter of these diodes shows that the junction is very close to that of a Schottky barrier. The conversion efficiency measured for these diodes shows a 2 to 4 dB improvement over the n-GaAs/P-Br diodes. The third combination, and by far the most efficient, was the n-GaAs/Zn diode. These are true p-n junctions (as opposed to Schottky barriers) and have measured zero bias cutoff frequencies on the order of 1000 GHz. The efficiency realized with these diodes in doubling from 70 GHx to 140 GHz typically ranged from 20 percent to 30 percent. The highest output power at 140 GHz that was measured was 16 milliwatts."
"A nonreciprocal circular polarizer has been developed. This ferrite device converts linear polarization propagating in rectangular waveguide into circular polarization propagating in circular waveguide. The sense, right- or left-hand, of the circular polarization is determined by the direction of a longitudinal magnetic field applied to the ferrite. If one sense of circular polarization, e.g., right-hand, is transmitted, then only left-hand circuIar polarization can be received. Performance data indicate good ellipticity with reasonable loss and VSWR for two models of the circular polarizer, and for two devices--a circulator and a nonreciprocal antenna element--based on the polarizer. The antenna element permits one antenna to be used both to transmit and to receive the reflected circularly polarized signals from a target."
"Equations are presented which show how the isolation-bandwidth characteristic of a given Y-circulator junction can be modified by external tuning elements. Results are given for tuning with one, two and, as a limiting case, an infinite number of resonant elements. The results suggest that there is only limited room for improvement in the best of the current state-of-the-art empirically designed circulators."
"Accurate values of coaxial line step capacitances have been computed by the method of 'mode matching' at the plane of the discontinuity in a coaxial line, as described by Whinnery, Jamieson, and Robbins in 1944. The capacitances are given in tables, graphs, and as empirical explicit expressions, suitable for programming in digital computers."
"An experimental nonreciprocal microwave device which makes use of the Faraday rotation in a solid-state plasma is presented."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"A new guided beam wave transmission system is proposed here, which is composed of two parallel concave reflectors. The principle is a combination of waveguide and beam wave transmission. The shape of the reflector cross section and the corresponding mode functions were obtained. Attenuation due to wall current and limited aperture of the reflectors were calculated. Experiments were made to confirm the modes and the attenuation. One of the remarkable features of this transmission system is its field distribution, which is concentrated into a belt-shaped space between reflectors. Considering this feature, this system seems to be effectively applied to the railways as a medium for obstacle detection and communication."
"A magnetically tunable UHF bandpass filter designed in strip transmission line and with two disk-shaped resonators of yttrium-iron-garnet (YIG) is described. Single crystals of both pure YIG and gallium-substituted YIG were used. The properties of the disk resonators were first investigated by testing them in a bandstop filter configuration. Linewidths were measured as a function of both frequency and temperature over the band 500 to 1000 MHz and sometimes beyond. The effect of metal boundaries near the ferrimagnetic resonator on its linewidth and resonant magnetic field was determined. Magnetostatic modes were examined. Methods for adjusting the resonant frequency of a disk are discussed. A description is given of the filter coupling structure, which includes two 50-to-5-ohm transformers in strip line. The experimental tuning procedure is outlined. Tests of the filter with gallium-YIG disks revealed a midband insertion loss of less than 3.3 dB from 500 to 1200 MHz and less than 2 dB from 600 to 1100 MHz; the filter with pure YIG disks had a midband insertion loss of less than 3.2 dB from 450 to 1100 MHz and had fewer spurious responses than the gallium-YIG falter. Response curves, limiting characteristics, and other experimental results are also presented."
"Three types of nonreciprocal remanent phase shifters in rectangular waveguide are described which are approximated by a simple model consisting of twin ferrite slabs symmetrically placed in rectangular waveguide and separated by a dielectric rib. The model has been analyzed with the assumption that a fundamental TE mode wave propagates in the structure. Simultaneous solution of Maxwell's equations in the three regions of dielectric, ferrite, and air within the waveguide enables the characteristic equation to be formed. The characteristics of the model have been obtained with the aid of a computer as a function of dimensions, dielectric and magnetic constants, frequency, and power. The theoretical results are compared with experimental data obtained on a double toroid structure. Correction factors applied to the experimental data, which are necessary to account for differences between the practical structure and the ideal model, are discussed."
"Results are presented on the investigation of an experimental two-port magnetoelastic delay line using a single crystal rod of yttrium-iron-garnet, over the frequency range of 200 to 1000 MHz. A magnetic bias field is applied parallel to the rod axis. Data is given on delay time and insertion loss as a function of bias field. Both a slow and fast variation of insertion loss with bias field are noted. The slow variation of insertion loss is quite flat and insertion loss is at a minimum, over the range of 900 to 1050 oersteds, for all frequencies from 200 to 1000 MHz. A study of the fast variation of insertion loss shows that this variation occurs only over a portion of the pulse and if the pulse is short enough the fast variation is absent. A study of the effects of small permanent magnets that supply a biasing field orothogonal to the primary biasing field is presented. Insertion loss and pulse distortion are substantially reduced by these magnets."
"The equivalent circuit applicable to most semiconductor diodes contains a term R/sub s/ called the spreading resistance which is a very critical parameter of any diode. In a mixer diode, R/sub s/ limits the conversion efficiency and increases the noise temperature. In parametric amplifiers, R/sub s/ affects the overall impedance levels and determines the minimum noise figure of which the amplifier is capable. In harmonic generators it drastically affects the conversion efficiency, as it dissipates power not only at the input and output harmonic frequencies but also at every idler frequency for which current may flow through the diode. This paper details more specifically the problems encountered when high frequency operation must be evaluated. The cylindrical capacitor is examined with emphasis on the configuration which applies to the variable-capacitor diode, which is used primarily for harmonic power generation. The point-contact diode configuration is examined and the field equations are derived in terms of the oblate spheroidal coordinates. It is shown that this is the natural coordinate system for such an analysis and that the spreading resistance is quite easily derived in this system."
"An exact method is developed for the calculation of the electrical performance of the rectangular waveguide T-junction. This method is used to find the equivalent circuit of a rectangular waveguide T-junction in which both cross-sectional dimensions of the side waveguide are different from the cross-sectional dimensions of the through waveguide. The theoretical calculations for a particular T-junction of this type are verified by experimental measurements. In this method the electrical performance is analyzed by using equivalent-circuit concepts applied to waveguide modes to calculate an admittance matrix relating propagating and cutoff waveguide modes to each other. Then the cutoff modes are terminated in their characteristic impedance, and an equivalent admittance matrix of the junction is found relating only the propagating modes in each waveguide to each other. The anlysis is valid when any number of modes can propogate in the waveguides forming the junction. The Inversion of an infinite matrix is required; however, any desired accuracy can be obtained by considering a matrix of finite but sufficient size or equivalently by considering a sufficient number of cutoff modes."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"A new formulation for the analysis of the general nonuniform transmission line is presented. A characterization of the line in terms of its ABCD parameters is given. Explicit formulas for these parameters are obtained from which any network function can be calculated to any degree of accuracy. The new formulation leads to a description of the line in terms of a Sturm-Liouville equation from which all of the natural frequencies of the line can be found and their distribution bounds and asymptotic behavior specified. The ABCD parameters are shown to be entire functions of order 1 and genus 1."
"A general theory of the propagation of higher-order modes on cylindrical surface-wave structures is examined and applied to the dielectric-clad rod. A theory is developed in which the boundary conditions at the guide are specified by an impedance dyadic. The characteristic equation for the structure is then obtained in terms of the elements of the dyadic. The equation is solved and yields a set of conditions which are satisfied by the values of the dyadic elements at the cutoff points for each of the higher-order modes. A mode without a cutoff frequency is shown to exist on the structure used. The relationship between the guide wavelength and frequency has been verified experimentally."
"A TE/sub k0/ wave incident on an inductive metal iris in a rectangular waveguide excites a reflected and a transmitted wave in the TE/sub k0/ mode. The reflection and transmission coefficients describing these waves are computed. In addition to the incident mode, a number of other modes are excited by the discontinuity. The amount of coupIing to these other modes, given by coupling coefficients, is determined using the variational technique. The method developed makes it possible to find the coupling to any desired mode without first finding the coupling to any other mode or group of modes. The analysis shows under what conditions certain modes can be suppressed or eliminated. The method should be applicable to other problems of interest where modes other than the incident one are excited. Since the reflection, transmission, and coupling coefficients are known, the total field at any point in the waveguide can be computed. As an example, the total field at the discontinuity when the TE/sub 10/ mode is incident is calculated. The result closely resembles the expected result (of zero electric field over the metal iris)."
"The general nth-order admittance matrix for an array of parallel conductors placed between ground planes is exhibited, subject to the assumption that direct coupling exists only between adjacent conductors and that only a TEM wave is present whenever all the conductors but one are grounded. When the alternate terminals of one of these arrays are connected to ground, as in an interdigital bandpass filter, the admittance matrix yields a subsystem of equations which, except for sign, is identical in form with the node equations of suitably selected transmission-line cascade. The identification of the coefficients in these similar systems of equations explicitly determines the coefficients of the admittance matrix in terms of the parameters of the prototype transmission-line cascade. In turn, the capacities to ground and the mutual capacities, each per unit length, for the array of parallel conductors can be determined from the coefficients of its admittance matrix by imposing the pertinent voltage conditions on the admittance equations. Thus, one arrives, explicitly, at the general formulas used in the design of interdigital filters which relate the capacities per unit length of the parallel conductors to the parameters of the prototype transmission-line cascade. It is shown that, if the first element of the interdigital structure is open-circuited, the transmission-line cascade begins with a series, open-circuited quarter-wave stub while, if the first element of the interdigital structure is short-circuited, the first element of the cascade is a shunt, short-circnited quarter-wave stub. Extensions of the method to equivalences with other prototype networks are suggested. In the Appendix, closed expressions for the self and mutual admittances of the parallel conductor array are given in terms of the self impedances and coupling coefficients of the nth-order impedance matrix proposed by Bolljahn and Matthaei for this structure, subject to the assumption of no coupling between nonadjacent conductors. These are shown to be consistent with the requirement that the admittance matrix be the reciprocal of the impedance matrix."
"For the case of infinitely large apertures the followiug probability distributions are derived in this paper: the probability of finding a ray at the nth lens at a distance r from the axis, the probability of finding a ray with an amplitude A at lens n, the cumulative probability of finding a ray with a displacement less than r and the cumulative probability of finding a ray with an amplitude less than A. The case of lenses with finite apertures was explored with the help of computer simulated experiments whose results are given. These experiments show that the probability distributions for the ray amplitudes which were derived for infinite apertures are still useful even in the case of lenses with finite apertures as long as the probability of losing the ray is less than 20 percent."
"Frequency translation of an RF wave can be accomplished by subjecting it to a constant rate of phase shift or by applying an ideal repetitive sawtooth phase function which snaps to zero at 360 degrees (serrodyne modulation). The DIGILATOR is a new type of frequeucy translator which employs a multibit latching ferrite phase shifter with a suitable digital switching driver to obtain a multiple-step approximation to the serrodyne phase function. This paper reviews the theory of an N-step DIGILATOR and describes the design of a 16-step, X-band device. Experiments showed that performance is independent of microwave frequency over the design frequency band of the phase shifter. The carrier and close-in sidebands were suppressed by 39 dB and predicted far-out sidebands were within 1 dB of theoretical amplitudes."
"The authors have developed a three-port ckculator at 258 GHz as part of an amplifier operating on the principle of resonance saturation of a dipolar gas. The circulator consists of a symmetric Y-junction with au accurately centered ferrite post. The groove dimension corresponds to RG137 rectangular waveguide (0.043 inch by 0.0215 inch). This geometry was found to have at the given frequency the least loss. The design is similar to circulators obtained by others at 140 GHz. Constructional features are a split-machined structure, optical polished and gold plated surfaces, and integrated flanges."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"A straightforward method for the determination of the expected attenuation in misaligned beam waveguides is presented. It applies to confocal guides and assumes that the misalignment consists of random displacements of the lenses in directions perpendicular to the beam axis. Reiterative fields, as they are present in perfectly aligned beam waveguides, do not exist in misaligned guides. However, it can be shown that there are beams whose expected field distribution is repeated from lens to lens. These \"statistical modes\" are determined by the eigenfunctions of a homogeneous integral equation of the second kind. The corresponding eigenvalues determine the expected attenuation per iteration. The absolute squares of the eigenvalues yield an upper bound for the expected power loss per iteration. The integral equation is solved for small mean square displacements of the lenses by a perturbation method. For infiitely extended lenses, the equation can be solved in closed form. In both cases the expected attenuation of the lower-order statistical modes has been calculated; the results are shown as function of the mean square displacement of the lenses."
"Measurements made with an optical beam waveguide employing quartz lenses for the beam iteration demonstrate that a transmission loss of 0.5 dB/km is readily obtainable, and that this loss is solely determined by the absorption, scatter, and reflection losses of the lenses. The transmission loss and its variation depends on the air pressure along the light path. Photometric measurements of the energy distribution of the transmitted beam illustrate that distortions in the mode pattern of the laser are the major cause of the launching loss which for the available laser was measured to be approximately 0.4 dB."
"Theory and applications of coupled nonuniform transmission lines are described. Matrix representations of a general coupled nonuniform transmission line are presented, by means of which the behavior of any coupled nonuniform transmission line maybe completely described. Among a wide variety of applications of coupled nonuniform transmission lines, two typical networks, one the coupled nonuniform transmission-line folded all-pass network and the other the coupled nonuniform transmission-line directional coupler, are treated in detail. Equivalent circuit representatious of these two networks are presented, which enable the designer to synthesize them in a greatly simplified manner by making use of the theories now available for more conventional single nonuniform transmission lines. In addition, the properties of these two networks using coupled exponential line are investigated. Design procedure is also given for asymmetrical coupled exponential-line directional couplers having excellent characteristics."
"The propagation constants of a rectangular waveguide containing periodic, parallel sheets having finite conductivity were determined using an iterative computer program. The dispersion equation was found in a matrix formulation which was conducive to computer solution. This equation was solved for various values of conductivity and sheet spacing. Comparisons were made with the propagation constants found assuming an infinite array of thin parallel resistive sheets in free space for the case where the direction of propagation and the electric field vector were both parallel to the sheets. The propagation constants for the infinite array case have been determined by both conformal mapping techniques for certain limiting conditions and by a computer solution of the dispersion equation for sheet spacings and conductivities of interest. The results should prove useful for the design of absorbing elements and terminations for waveguides."
"A square waveguide with periodic septums is considered with a view towards determining the parameters of a structure which suppresses three of four possible propagating modes. The analysis is presented in two parts, the first of which is concerned with the isolated septum. Using available techniques, semi-infinite scattering matrices are determined for the semi-infinite septum for arbitrary TE/sub N0/, TE/sub N1/, and TM/sub N1/ incident modes. These are used to derive Fredholm matrix equations which yield the field everywhere near the finite length septum. The leading terms of the inverted equations are the far-field transmission and reflection coefficients. The solutions are evaluated for several frequencies, and fifth degree polynomials are fitted for the computation of S/sub 11/ and S/sub 12/. The analysis for the TE/sub 10/ mode is applicable to an arbitrary height waveguide and may be used without modification for the \"finite length\" septum in conventional waveguide. The second part is concerned with the periodic waveguide and assumes that the septums are far apart. A contour chart is introduced to visualize the performance of the periodic structure. The chart is especially useful when more than one propagating mode is involved and simplifies the design problem so that the parameters of practical structures may be obtained with little effort."
"The comparison reflectometer is an instrument designed to locate and measure the characteristics of reflections in waveguide and transmission-line systems: it is particularly suitable for measuring small reflections in precise microwave measuring instruments up to one meter in length. It consists of a reflectometer in which the returning waves are combined with an accurately known reference wave and a measure of the total reflection coefficient is recorded automatically on punched paper tape at a number of preset frequencies covering a particular waveband. From sets of readings taken without, and with, the test component connected, a computer calculates and plots the distribution of reflections as a function of distance and prints out their magnitudes and phases. The reflection coefficients of individual discontinuities are also plotted by the computer as a function of frequency on Smith charts. Under suitable conditions point reflections may be Iocated in X-band waveguide within a few tenths of a millimeter and measured with an accuracy of /spl plusmn/3 percent in magnitude and /spl plusmn/ 5/spl deg/ in phase angle. The method compensates for imperfections in the reflectometer and so reduces the background level of spurious reflections to less than 0.00006."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"RectanugIar waveguides containing a full height lossless dielectric slab in arbitrary positions are theoretically treated. Numerical data about the cutoff frequencies of the three lowest TE-modes in the case of loading with alumina are presented. A graphical method is developed to determine cutoff frequencies for other dielectric constants as well. Graphs are given to determine the propagation constant and its frequency dependence. Figures of some characteristic mode patterns are added. A possible application to dissipative filters and frequency separators is discussed."
"Decreasing the negative bias voltage of varactor diodes in a parametric amplifier causes the gain versus frequency characteristic of the amplifier to shift to the higher-frequency side, resulting in a so-called \"positive slope\" at the signal center frequency. The same happens when the pump power is increased or when the signal power is increased, but in the latter case only when the idler circuit load resistance is below a certain value. The slope of the gain characteristic can be partially or completely compensated by detuning the signal-circuit characteristic relative to the gain versus freqnency characteristic in such a way that the latter is located on a certain point of the left or right slope of the signal-circuit chara-teristic, or by resistive loading of the idler circuit. Complete cancellation was achieved in the range from -30 to -20 dBm signal input power by using both methods simultaneously on a practical model of a parametric amplifier operating at a signal center frequency of 3.95 GHz and a pump frequency of 11.76 GHz. The loading of the idler circuit was done by drawing a little rectified diode current. The necessary increase in pump power, in order to maintain the same gain as with both signal and idler circuits tuned to resonance, was less than 3 dB, the increase in noise figure a few tenths of 1 dB from a typical value of approximately 3 dB."
"The magnetic flux density of unsaturated microwave ferrites can be made almost constant although microwave ferrite saturation magnetization, coercive force, and hysteresis loop shapes change substantially. Temperature stabilization of flux is achieved by a composite series magnetic circuit consisting of microwave, driver, and flux-limiter ferrites, and a control coil. The flux limiter constrains the circuit flux to an almost constant level throughout the operating temperature range, despite large changes in the size and shape of the microwave ferrite hysteresis loop. The driver ferrite supplies the MMF necessary to sustain the flux. Current impulses in the control coil energize and switch the circuit flux. Estimates of the required lengths and cross-sectional areas of the circuit elements, and of the required switching field and energy for a waveguide remanence phase shifter are given, along with the effects of leakage and fringing fluxes. Composite circuit techniques have been applied to an experimental remanence phase shifter. Unstabilized, a 16 percent loss of phase shift was incurred as a result of an 80/spl deg/C rise in temperature. By applying composite circuit techniques, this value was reduced to less than 2 1/2 percent for the same temperature range."
"A theoretical investigation of a unilateral parametric amplifier using two varactor diodes indicates an improvement of unilateral stability over already existing types. A circuit is suggested which uses lower sideband idler energy for achieving forward gain and upper side-band energy to obtain substantial reverse loss. The phases of the applied signals and of the pump at the two varactors have to be 90/spl deg/ out of phase to achieve unilateral operation. Numerical evaluation of the theoretical results for a signal frequency at 4.0 GHz and a pump frequency at 12.0 GHz, assuming a diode junction capacitance of C/sub j/ = 0.4 pF and a bulk resistance of R/sub s/ = 2/spl Omega/ was done for several pump power levels. For 14 dB maximum forward gain, the 3 dB bandwidth of the gain versus frequency characteristic of the unilateral amplifier is about 18 percent smaller than that of the reflection type amplifier. The maximum reverse loss for these conditions is 7.3 dB. For lower forward gain the backward loss increases relatively until for very low gain values (about 1 dB) the amplifier is unconditionally stable, i.e., the backward loss is larger than the forward gain. The theoretical noise figure is about 1.95 dB at signal center frequency for 14 dB forward gain and, for /spl plusmn/80 MHz from the center frequency, only 0.1 dB higher than for the reflection type amplifier."
"Detailed design procedures are presented for a practical elliptic-function filter form capable of achieving high selectivity in a very compact configuration. This filter form, called the digital elliptic because of its digital construction and elliptic function response, can provide either bandpass or bandstop characteristics. Examples are given to illustrate typical design procedures for both bandpass and bandstop applications. Experimental results are presented for an octave bandstop design."
"In an axially straight multimode circular waveguide taper excited with a pure TE/sup /spl circle// /sub 11/ dominant mode, the first and only converted mode at and near cutoff is the TM/sup/spl circle// /sub 11/ mode. It is shown that in an axially straight multimode square waveguide taper excited with a pure TE/sup/spl square// /sub 10/ dominant mode, the TM/sup/spl square// /sub 12/ mode corresponding to the TM/sup/spl circle// /sub 11/ mode in circular case is not the only first converted mode at and near cutoff. The overall behavior or coupling mechanism of waveguides is similar whether the waveguide is rectangular, square, circular, or elliptical: i.e., the overall coupling coefficient at cutoff of a converted mode or modes approaches an ininfinity of the order 0/sup -1/4/."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"The TE/sub 011/ mode of oscillation in an open-ended circular cylindrical microwave cavity is analyzed. The cavity consists of a circular waveguide that is terminated at each end with a thin cylindrical partition coaxial with the circular waveguide. The resonant frequency of the cavity is computed by using Laplace transform and Wiener-Hopf techniques. Numerical values for the resonant frequency are presented."
"A new theory is presented for the design of direct-coupled-cavity filters in transmission line or waveguide. It is shown that for a specified range of parameters the insertion-loss characteristic of these filters in the case of Chebyshev equal-ripple characteristic is given very accurately by the formula P/sub 0/ / /P/sub L/ = 1+h/sup 2/T/sub n//sup 2/[/spl omega//sub 0/ / /spl omega/ sin(/spl pi/ /spl omega/ / /spl omega//sub 0/) / sin/spl theta//sub 0/'] where h defines the ripple level, T/sub n/ is the first-kind Chebyshev polynomial of degree n, /spl omega/ / /spl omega//sub 0/ is normalized frequency, and /spl theta//sub 0/' is an angle proportional to the bandwidth of a distributed lowpass prototype filter. The element values of the direct-coupled filter are related directly to the step impedances of the prototype whose values have been tabulated. The theory gives close agreement with computed data over a range of parameters as specified by a very simple formula. The design technique is convenient for practical applications."
"The frequency transformation W=1/S, where S= tanh(/spl gamma/L), is investigated for commensurate transmission-line networks consisting of stubs, resistors, ideal transformers, and unit elements. This transformation takes transmission-line transformers into transmission-line lowpass filters and vice versa, Iowpass (or bandstop) filters into highpass (or band-pass) filters and vice versa, and elliptic-function bandstop filters into elliptic-function bandpass filters and vice versa. The practicality of the transformation lies in the fact that element values of the transformed network are easily related to the corresponding element values of the original network. The transformation is useful because it provides an alternative viewpoint for synthesis, and because it reduces the number of tables of designs needed for various filter types. Several examples of designs using the transformation are given. One design is an unusual narrowband 3-dB directional coupler."
"A general method for determining the characteristic impedance of uniform, lossless transmission systems is developed. The torrent distribution within the system is determined by means of a matrix equation programmed for computer solution. Once the current distribution is known, the inductance per unit length and characteristic impedance are determined. The results obtained by applying this method to several rectangular coaxial systems are compared with the predictions of an approximate analytic expression. The reflection coefficient of a variable characteristic impedance coaxial line is measured on a time-domain reflectometer (TDR), and the results are compared with both the matrix method and the approximate analytic expression."
"A semi-infinite array of parallel-plate waveguides with walls of finite thickness is excited by incident TEM modes in every waveguide identically. By proper application of the boundary conditions, two Wiener-Hopf equations are obtained which, however, cannot be solved by the standard techniques. A method originated by Jones is applied to recast these two equations so that the forms of the solutions are found. The solntions involve constants to be determined by an infinite set of linear simultaneous equations which converge absolutely. When the thickness of the walls b is small compared with the wavelength /spl lambda/, explicit solutions in the order of 0(b/ /spl lambda/) are found in very simple forms."
"A solution is given for propagation in rectangular waveguide fully loaded with a uniaxial dielectric, with the C-axis lying anywhere in the transverse plane. This problem arises in the design of particular traveling-wave masers. By application of the Rayleigh-Ritz method to Berk's variational expression, the problem is reduced to a matrix eigenvalue problem, and in a form suitable for direct evaluation on a digital computer. An explicit approximate solution is, however, shown to give accurate results. The analysis can be interpreted directly in terms of mode coupling of the usual rectangular waveguide modes, and the possible extension is indicated to general tensor media and to circular or elliptical waveguide."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"The relationship between switching time, transient suppression, and filter complexity is derived for filter-type diode switches, along with the theoretical minimum switching time. Design criteria are developed for high-speed switches and detectors in waveguide and TEM transmission lines."
"The analysis of transmission-line directional couplers is formulated in terms of a pair of first-order matrix differential equations. It is shown that for every nonuniform directional coupler that is electrically symmetric, there exists an equivalent pair of dual nonuniform transmission lines. It is also shown that a matched, transmission-line directional coupler having an absolutely continuous characteristic impedance matrix must be symmetric. Restrictions on the terminating impedances and the implications of these restrictions on the realizability of transmission-line couplers are investigated. Finally, the tapered-line magic T is treated as an example."
"The \"dual-mode reflectometer\" is a device with which one can measure the relative off-diagonal terms of the tensor reflection coefficient of a hybrid mode composed of two degenerate, mutually perpendicular, independent modes. It differs from the conventional \"single-mode reflectometer\" in that it permits launching elliptically polarized waves of arbitrary orientation and ellipticity into the main (circular or square) waveguide and observing the orientation and ellipticity of the wave reflected by the load. This paper describes application of the dual-mode reflectometer to measurement of the magnetic Kerr effect in semiconductors. The accuracy and resolution of the apparatus is demonstrated with measurements of germanium and silicon at x band. A scattering matrix analysis is given which describes the measurement and calibration procedure."
"An analysis is given for the modes which will be excited between two parallel impedance boundaries. It is shown that, for inductive-type surfaces, two of these modes have a surface wave character even though the structure is bounded in the transverse dimension. The interaction between these surface waves and the accompanying waveguide modes is discussed for this model which is admittedly highly idealized."
"This paper describes a theoretical and experimental evaluation of the oscillation conditions of a microwave tunnel diode integrally mounted at the feed point of a semicircular loop antenna. The oscillation conditions are based on a quasi-linear equivalent circuit where the diode load impedance is the complex radiation impedance of the semicircular loop antenna. The results of a radiation impedance calculation based on a Fourier transform method are presented. Diode fabrication techniques are described and experimental results are reported to be consistent with the theory."
"Theory and operation of a serrodyne based upon phase velocity modulation of magnetostatic modes in YIG are described. Sources of limitation on the spectral performance are evaluated in terms of measured device parameters. The most critical sources of unwanted spectral generation are flyback time, nonlinear current sawtooth, logarithmic phase variation, and variation in attenuation with applied magnetic bias. Design and operation of a C-band stripline device is described. All unwanted sidebands were suppressed by 22 dB river the desired signal output, limited primarily by the flyback time."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"The voltage transfer function of a first- and second-order coupled transmission line, all-pass network having loss is derived. The amplitude response is calculated from the transfer function. It is shown that the amplitude response is completely determined when /spl alpha/, the real part of propagation function, is known. A method for calculating /spl alpha/ is presented and an example is given. The results show that the losses (dielectric and conductor) cause periodic dips in the amplitude response of the all-pass networks. However, for practical materials and configurations, the peak amplitude loss is less than 0.4 dB for the first two periodicities. The results show that, for most applications, it is possible to cascade many first-order or second-order lines before the amplitude response must be equalized."
"An explicit solution is obtained for propagation through a uniform twisted anisotropic medium subject to the conditions that propagation is along the twist axis, and that the structure is fine. The propagation constants are altered and coupling exists between the propagation modes. A parameter is defined which indicates the tendency of the radiation to adhere to the structure of the medium. The effects at boundary discontinuities are discussed, and tapers to an isotropic medium are dealt with. The particular application of the theory to cases of polarization conversion, circular to pIane, and plane to plane are discussed."
"A method is described of calculating automatically the performance of junctions of rectangular waveguides including conducting cylinders of arbitrary shape. The only restriction is that the overall problem should he effectively two-dimensional, i.e., the structure be uniform in some cross section. The one basic approximation made (which could be removed) is shown to give useful results for the devices tested, viz., for various shaped irises (inductive and capacitive) and the 4-port H-plane junction."
"The studies here show that the wave equation for electromagnetic wave propagation in an isotropic and uniformly moving medium is solvable by the separation method in four coordinate systems. Solutions in the form of complete sets of eigenfunctions are possible for problems where boundary surfaces are presented. A Green's dyadic for finite or semi-infinite domain problems involving sources in the moving medium has been formulated through vector operation on the eigenfunction solutions of the homogeneous wave equation. The case of electromagnetic waves excited by a current loop, immersed in a moving medium, and confined by a circular cylindrical waveguide, was examined. The electric and magnetic field intensities in such a waveguide were compared with those obtained through a different approach. The Green's dyadic for electromagnetic waves in an infinite domain moving medium was shown to be obtainable from the finite domain Green's dyadic through a limiting process."
"A new type of 180/spl deg/ H-plane bend has been developed for use in double-layer pillbox antennas. This bend, called a coupler-type bend, permits complete coupling between two pillbox layers with a minimum of reflection, cross-polarization, and defocusing. It can be used with short focus antennas where large feed angles are involved. The coupler-type bend utilizes a metal plate between the pillbox layers; the plate coutains a pattern of holes which achieves the desired coupling. Analytical and experimental programs have been implemented to determine the optimum hole size and distribution. Simulation techniques in rectangular waveguide were employed for convenience in measurements. The bend design was measured to have a reflection less than 2 dB SWR over a ten percent frequeucy band; this is computed to contribute less than 0.2 dB SWR to the reflection seen by the feed-horn of a double-layer pillbox. The bend introduces less than --22 dB of cross-polarization in the antenna radiation. Measurements of a pillbox model incorporating the bend design have verified the predicted performance of the coupler-type bend."
"The parallel-plate waveguide with a two-layer loading medium, a conducting semiconductor substrate, and a relatively thin dielectric layer approximates the interconnections in many integrated systems if the fringing fields are ignored. The fundamental mode of this structure is an E mode which is a surface wave. Its propagation behavior is analyzed in this paper and the equations are evaluated by highly accurate numerical methods. The semiconducting substrate is characterized by its dielectric constant and conductivity. A critical conductivity /spl sigma//sub min/ exists and is related to the cross sectional and material parameters. If the substrate conductivity is given by /spl sigma//sub min/ then the attenuation constant of the line is a minimum. The same value of conductivity yields minimum phase distortion at maximum bandwidth. If the conductivity is larger than /spl sigma//sub min/ the substrate acts as a poor conductor with associated skin effect; if it is smaller, lossy dielectric behavior results. Analysis shows that it is appropriate to subdivide the frequency range into three intervals. The lowest-frequency interval is characterized by propagation which resembles diffusion. This is caused by the loss in the dielectric layer. The next frequency range extends to some upper frequency which is determined by substrate conductivity and the cross-sectional dimensions. In this interval, the phase velocity of the fundamental mode is controlled by the ratio of dielectric to semiconductor thickness, which, if typical interconnections are considered, implies a very low velocity. This property indicates that the structure can serve as a delay line. Further increases in frequency result in higher phase velocities. Skin effect and dielectric loss behavior describe the propagation in this third interval."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Analysis and synthesis of transmission lines of arbitrary geometry are not easy to realize with currently available methods. The object of this paper is to show that by introducing a new principle to be called the \"least-weighted-square invariance deformation,\" it is possible to solve transmission line problems to desired orders of accuracy. A procedure based on this principle is given for deforming a given transmission line geometry keeping the characteristic impedance an invariant, or for synthesizing a transmission line cross-sectional geometry corresponding to the given constant parameters of the structure. The method is applied to the analysis of transmission lines having a regular polygonal outer conductor and a circular inner conductor. An application to a representative situation in synthesis is also described."
"An analysis is given of the \"quarter-wave\" impedance measurement technique. This technique, which finds its widest potential application in conjunction with standing wave machines, permits the approximate elimination of the error due to residual reflection or VSWR. If the other sources of error are small, the potential reduction in error is in the ratio |t/sub 11|/2|S/sub 11/|, where S/sub 11/ and t/sub 11/ are the residual reflection coefficients of the standing wave machine and quarter-wavelength section, respectively."
"A general method is presented for analysis of waveguide junctions and diaphragms by summing normal modes of propagation, giving solutions for the resulting scattered modes. Because interaction effects of dominant and higher-order modes between discontuities are allowed, finite-length obstructions can be studied. Solutions are found without any prior assumption about the total fields existing at the discontinuities and, as a result, the formulation is applicable to a wide range of problems. The technique proves to be simple and is ideally suited to computers, involving mainly the solution of sets of simultaneous linear equations. Thick and thin symmetrical bifurications of a rectangular guide are studied. Forward-scattered mode amplitudes and imput admittances are calculated, the computed admittance of the thin bifurication is compared with well-known results, and transverse field patterns on both sides of the junction are plotted, thus showing the accuracy of the match. The results of a finite-length bifurication by a thick vane are presented for a range of lengths, the parameters of the equivalent T network being given in each case. For very short lengths, the problem corresponds to an inductive strip across the guide."
"The design and analysis of a 1-GHz limiter which uses voltage variation of the dielectric constant of a ferroelectric material to achieve limiting is described. An RF electric field derived from the input power is used to change the relative dielectric constant /spl epsiv//sub r/ of the material; the resulting nonlinear change of capacitance of a small element of the material is used to change the condition of a tuned circuit. The tuned circuit terminates a quarter-wavelength stub which shunts the main transmission line, thereby providing a power-dependent mismatch at the junction of the two transmission lines. The degree of this mismatch is controlled by the condition of the tuned circuit and, therefore, the magnitude of the input power. Theoretical analysis and experimental results for small signal and large signal operation are presented. Limiter analysis is based on the measured change of ferroelectric (nonlinear) capacitance as a function of dc electric field. The ferroelectric element is 0.011 by 0.013 by 0.020 (inches) machined from polycrystalline (Pb/sub 0.315/-Sr/sub 0.685/) TiO/sub 3/ material."
"Sinha, J. K."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"An analysis of tunnel-diode low-level detection is presented for the purpose of explaining some of the unusual detection characteristics that occur under certain bias conditions. For example, in the vicinity of its inflection bias point, a tunnel diode exhibits a discriminator-like rectification behavior with two sensitivity peaks. When biased at one of these peaks, the diode is capable of unusually high sensitivities, at least an order of magnitude better than the sensitivity of any other known diode. It is shown that these high sensitivities are proportional to (1 - /spl Gamma//sup 2/),where /spl Gamma//sup 2/ is the RF power gain of the detector viewed as a reflection-type amplifier. The resultant gain bandwidth (or sensitivity bandwidth) limitations of the detector are discussed. Unusually high sensitivities are also possible at the lower microwave frequencies when the tunnel diode is biased at its peak current point. A knowledge of the diode static characteristics, the reflection coefficient, and the video circuit permits an accurate analytical evaluation of the sensitivity performance of any tunnel diode, and calculations are carried out for an example diode and compared against measured data. The paper also contains a specific comparison of the relative sensitivity performance of the example tunnel diode versus a hot carrier diode."
"A significant problem in realizing a practical tunnel-diode amplifier is that of stabilizing the amplifier both within and outside its passband while maintaining a specified center-frequency gain and bandwidth. A new technique for realizing a moderate-bandwidth tunnel-diode amplifier that utilizes a directional filter as a bandpass structure is described. This technique was investigated analytically and an experimental S-band amplifier was built and tested. This experimental amplifier had typically the following characteristics: bandwidth, 400 MHz; center frequency, 2.9 GHz; and center-frequency gain, 12.5 dB. The technique described yields an amplitler which is reproducible and which has an analytically predictable and well-defined response. None of the experimental models have shown any tendencies toward oscillation."
"The equations for the overdriven upper sideband upconverter are derived and computer solutions are given for tbe abrupt junction, graded junction, and punch through varactor. The necessary design parameters are presented for the design of an upconverter. The performance of the abrupt, graded, and punch through varactors are compared."
"A simple low loss microwave delay equalizer for the delay equalization of narrow band microwave bandpass filters has been explored. This equalizer is quite small and does not require the use of additional components such as circulators or hybrids. It exhibits a reflection coefficient of less than 1 percent and possesses two very valuable and convenient features: a continuous adjustment of the delay shape and of the center frequency. The structure is analyzed theoretically, an equivalent circuit is derived, and expressions for both delay and loss are given. Also presented are design data and experimental results concerning the actual delay equalization of a bandpass filter and the temperature behavior of the equalizer and the filter-equalizer combination."
"The cross sections of most TEM mode transmission lines have reentrant corners or edges where the potential gradient is singular. In this paper the accuracy of the finite-difference solution for the electric field normal to the conductor boundary at a right-angle corner and at the edge of a thin plate is examined. The accuracy of the finite-difference solution is related to the mesh length h, the magnitude of the lattice point residuals, and the finite-difference operator which is used in place of the Laplacian differential operator. The computing time required to solve the mesh equations by the method of successive overrelaxation is specified. The surface charge density in the neighborhood of the boundary singuIarity is expressed as a truncated series of circuIar harmonics. As a result, the integral of the surface charge can be calculated with very good accuracy. The paper concludes by using the harmonic series treatment to determine the capacitance per unit length of a square coaxial transmission line."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Based on technical merit and timeliness, microwave papers in journals published outside the United States have been selected and compiled here, many with annotations. Reprints of the papers may be obtainable by writing directly to the author or to the source auoted. The papers are in English unless noted otherwise."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"A microwave (X-band) directional coupler consisting of two adjacent lengths of parallel waveguide with a common tantalum wall about for skin depths in thickness has been fabricated and studied. Coupling between the guides is effected through energy transfer via the electromagnetic fields penetrating the thin tantalum foil separating the guides. The coupling ratio of the device can be calculated by a straight-forward procedure to within experimental error (currently a few tenths of a decibel in over 70 decibels)."
"Approximate analyses published previously on tunnel-diode converters are basically phenomenological in nature by restricting the currents flowing through the tunnel diode or (and) the voltage across it to the signal, local oscillator, and intermediate frequencies only. Because of the nonlinear nature of the tunnel diode, many higher-order frequency components corresponding to harmonics and products, sums, and differences of the above mentioned frequencies are present. By including the effects of series resistance and series inductance and restricting the operating region within the parabolic portion of the tunnel-diode characteristics, the present analysis attempts to formulate the problem in a \"rigorous\" manner through the derivation of a second-order nonautonomous nonlinear differential equation with time-varying coefficients. The solution to a \"first-order\" approximation is obtained by incorporating a variational type treatment with an expansion type perturbation method. In an effort to verify the validity of the theoretical results obtained by the nonlinear analysis, an analog simulation is carried out since the control of required parameters in actual experiments is extremely difficult, especially in the microwave frequency region. The general agreement between the theoretical results and the analog simulation is promising and, therefore, should yield enough information to facilitate the control and adjustment of the various parameters in actual experiments especially in the microwave region. Specifically, we have verified by the analog simulation the theoretical prediction that the optimized conversion gain is obtained when the source resistance is about one third of the load resistance. In addition to minimizing the converter noise, the noise due to the first IF amplifier can also be minimized by selection of the correct converter load resistance by using Figs. 4 throngh 8."
"A series of shunt-tuned integrated microwave tunnel-diode devices utilizing unencapsulated beam lead tunnel diodes and including tuning and stabilizing circuitry have been fabricated using tantalum thin-film technology for use as the active element in microwave reflection amplifiers. The theoretical properties of such devices have been explored, and data relating to their design and measured performance are presented in detail. Finally, the successful use of these devices as the active elements in a series of absolutely stable circulator-coupled reflection amplifiers at 4 and 6 GHz has been demonstrated."
"A compact, symmetrical, three-port S-band circulator composed of reciprocal T junctions and nonreciprocal phase shifters is investigated theoreticaly, and its experimental performance results are presented. The comparison of these results demonstrates that 1) circulators can he designed and their experimental performance described from a network model and 2) there is no theoretical limitation on the minimum amount of total differential phase shift necessary for perfect circulation. Bandwidth is investigated and techniques are discussed, including the introduction of a \"backward wave\" phase shifter, for achieving larger bandwidths. The stripline nonreciprocal comb-filter phase shifter used in the ring circulator is described and performance results are given."
"The theory of mixer operation is briefly reviewed and the results presented in graphical form convenient to the designer. In particular, the minimum noise figure, conversion loss, and the source and output impedances are plotted as functions of the pulse duty ratio of the diode current. Emphasis is placed on the pulse duty ratio as a more fundamental parameter for defining mixer operation than the magnitude of the diode voltage which is generally nonsinusoidal. It is shown that Schottky diode mixers should exhibit single sideband noise figures as low as 3 dB at X band when used in conjunction with 1.5 dB noise figure IF amplifiers, provided the diodes have cutoff frequencies higher than 500 GHz."
"Perturbation formulas are derived for the changes in the dispersion curves and phase velocity for the modes in an arbitrary composite waveguide structure containing dispersive media in relative motion. The formulas are also valid when the media are fluids with arbitrary velocity distributions. It is shown that the relativistic transformation laws for the frequency and wave vector of uniform plane waves are also valid for waveguide modes provided that all moving media that make up the guide move with the same velocity. There are also difficulties when the moving media are dispersive. In general, one most therefore obtain the dispersion relation directly from the field equations or from the perturbation formulas. An example involving a simple surface wave along the interface of a moving plasma and a dielectric is worked out by both methods. As an interesting side result, it is found that plane waves in an unbounded isotropic plasma have phase velocities independent of the motion of the plasma."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"The microwave Faraday effect in a solid-state plasma waveguide under a relatively high magnetic field (/spl mu//sub e/B/sub 0/>>1) is investigated. Field configurations in the solid-state plasma waveguide are first analyzed. It is shown that two types of nondegenerate circularly polarized quasi-TE waves exist in the waveguide. The propagation constants of the quasi-TE waves are obtained by means of a variational method. The microwave Faraday effect in the solid-state plasma waveguide is formulated. It is shown that geometrical factors and reflections from the waveguide discontinuities have significant influences on the Faraday effect. Experimental results of the Faraday effect at 36 GHz through a soIid-state plasma waveguide are reported. In the experiment n-type indium antimonide crystals are used. The comparison of the experimental data with the theory shows good agreement."
"Design techniques and element value tables are presented for the construction of compact high-selectivity diplexers using digital elliptic component filters. A brief review of an applicable diplexer theory is given and the derivation and use of the element value tables are discussed. The tables provide values for component filters with an even number of branches n for n=4 through n=12 with a prototype ripple value corresponding to maximum diplexer input VSWR of approximately 1.26 to 1. For n=8, 10, and 12 branch filters, additional tables with permuted transmission zero orders are given. Test results for an n=6 branch experimental diplexer of 2.25 to 1 bandwidth are presented. The design and construction of this diplexer is described in detail and serves to illustrate the use of the element value tables and design procedures presented. Many practical construction and alignment suggestions are given which are useful in obtaining designs with good response characteristics. The experimental diplexer has crossover frequencies at 1.5 and 3.4 GHz and provides greater than a 50 dB isolation at frequencies 0.2 GHz from crossover. The diplexer has an input VSWR <or= to, 1.5 to 1 from dc to 6.0 GHz, and has package dimensions of approximately 2.0 by 2.0 by 0.75 inches."
"A coaxial waveguide with a cylindrical cavity forming a double discontinuity in the outer conductor is known to serve as a band rejection filter in the microwave region. A variational principle is applied to calculate the rejection frequency and a subsequent analysis is conducted to determine the dependence of that frequency on various parameters of the structure. Results are presented graphically and by simple analytical formulas. They demonstrate a newly discovered relationship between the rejection frequency and the width of the cavity, and provide design information which enables prediction of the rejection frequency within a 1 percent accuracy."
"Compression filters with bandwidths up to 1000 MHz have application in high-resolution RADAR system and rapid-scan receiver systems. A technique is presented for realizing a microwave linear delay (quadratic phase) versus frequency compression filter with sufficient delay accuracy to make compression ratios of up to 1000 to 1 feasible. The dispersive element in the compression filter is a silver tape with its broad side placed perpendicularly between the ground planes (instead of parallel, as in conventional stripline). The tape is folded back and forth upon itself in such a way that substantial coupling takes place between adjacent turns of the tape. A computer program has been written to determine the dimensions of the tape to achieve a linear delay versus frequency characteristic. A folded tape compression filter was constructed with a differential delay of 1.2 /spl mu/s over a bandwidth of 600 MHz centered at 1350 MHz giving a compression factor of 720 to 1. This filter was constructed in four identical sections, each section of which had a differential delay of 0.3 /spl mu/s over the same bandwidth as the complete filter. The entire filter (four sections) occupies a volume about 16 by 4 by 5 inches. Measurement data are presented which illustrate that the desired accurate delay characteristic was realized to within the /spl plusmn/ 1 ns measurement uncertainty."
"A systematic study is made of electromagnetic resonances of a spherical, free, and isotropic sample supposed to be without dielectric loss. The characteristic equation which is both complex and transcendant has been resolved with a computer. The results for the first modes (frequency and Q factor for /spl epsi/ varying between 1 and 100) are presented. The Q factor that is calculated represents the comparison between the energy stored by the resonance system and energy radiated per cycle; this is the theoretical maximum Q in the case of nonlossy materials. The different modes are classed in TE/sub nmr/ and TM/sub nmr/ modes which comprise exterior and interior modes. It is shown that for n >or= r the energy is concentrated in all directions near the surface; these are known as surface modes. This systematic study is confirmed by experiments in which numerous modes have been observed and identified."
"The insertion loss, the bandwidth ratio, and the nonlinearity of a high-power UHF circulator are discussed generally with regard to the characteristics, volume, and filling factor of the ferrite. Theory and experiment are made on the high-power circulator with ferrite, where either surface of the ferrite comes into contact with air. A wideband technique in improving the narrowband that is essentially the result of the filling factor of ferrite is also described. To avoid the center conductor heating effect, a circulator without a center conductor is described. Experiments have proven that, for ferrite nonlinearity, the threshold power by spinwave occurs in a polycrystal for CW power even above resonance and is changed by a external field strength, whereas the nonlinearity is not observed in a single crystal."
"Performance capabilities and limitations of nonreciprocal waveguide ferrite digital phase shifters are discussed. A computer-aided solution of the boundary value problem facilitates the optimization of both device geometry and material properties. Experimental results are in excellent agreement with predicted loss and phase shift values. Maximum figures of merit of the order of 1000 deg/dB have been realized. When high peak powers must be accommodated, some sacrifice in low-power performance is necessary. Operating peak power levels can be increased by lowering the saturation magnetization of the ferrite or by raising its spinwave linewidth. Peak power levels above 150 kW at X band and 350 kW at C and S bands have been attained in laboratory models with less than 1 dB loss for a 360 degree differential phase shift. When high-average power levels must be handled, various material and geometric considerations can be incorporated to minimize loss per unit length and to increase heat dissipation capabilities. Units have been successfully operated at S-band frequencies with only a five percent decrease in phase shift when carrying 900 watts average power. The various tradeoffs necessary to achieve high peak and average power performance are discussed."
"The use of lumped rather than distributed elements affords a considerable size reduction (typically a factor of 10 in area) in L- and S-band microwave integrated circuits. The electrical performance of such lumped elements is shown to be good enough to warrant their use in many applications where the size advantage or the resultant cost advantage is important. Miniature elements have been constructed which behave as true lumped reactive components up to at least 2.5 GHz. These elements have been evaluated using an impedance measurement method. Both inductors and capacitors have exhibited Qs greater than 50 at lower S band. Single-stage transistor power amplifiers at 2 GHz have been breadboarded using a simple arrangement of the lumped elements to match the measured impedances of the transistor pellet. These amplifiers have had gains as high as 4.7 dB at 2 GHz. The transistor used typically exhibits about 5 dB of gain in conventional coaxial circuitry. The loss in the lumped element matching networks has been about 0.5 dB greater than the loss in the distributed matching networks used in a microstrip amplifier built with the same type transistor. It is expected that the lumped circuit loss can be reduced as improved components are developed."
"A new technique is presented which furnishes an exceptionally narrow pulse of 6 to 12 ns duration with steep skirts of 1 to 3 ns at peak power levels of tens of kilowatts. The pulse is derived by means of two sequential discharges in a nonresonant waveguide section. An analysis of the low-pressure breakdown of a gas under the action of intense microwave fields considerably higher than the threshold of breakdown field shows that under certain optimum combinations of gas parameters the aforementioned pulse is obtained. Experimental results show that a 70 kW rectangular pulse of 12 ns width with 2 ns skirts can be reliably generated on a repetitive basis with negligible jitter."
"Experimental data and discussion are presented which show the desirability of using thick punch-through PIN diode for high-power limiting. The slower speed of response sets an upper limit on thickness. Data are presented on the maximum thickness allowable as a function of frequency. Results are given for a high-peak-power narrow-pulsewidth receiver protector, and for a high-average-power wide-pulsewidth balanced duplexer. These devices are compared to conventional gas T-R tubes and results suggest that the use of multiple PIN diodes in limiters and duplexers can offer significant improvements in some RADAR applications."
"This paper presents experimental data taken to determine the frequency modulation characteristics of avalanche transit time oscillators. The active element is a diffused mesa diode with a shallow junction in epitaxiad n-n+ silicon; the details of the construction of the diode are presented and its typical characteristics are discussed. The basic oscillator consists of the diode mounted in the capacitive portion of a radial mode cavity machined of copper with the outlines of a DO-5 diode header. The frequency of oscillation is dependent upon the diode junction capacitance and is varied between 5 and 8 GHz for the diodes tested. Microwave power levels up to 100 mW have been observed with an efficiency exceeding 3 percent. The frequency drift over the temperature range from -70 to +100/spl deg/C is 2.5x10/sup -5/ parts/ /spl deg/C. The frequency modulation characteristics of these oscillators indicate their potential applications in miniature solid-state low-power communications systems."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"This index covers all technical items - papers, correspondence, reviews, etc. - that appeared in this periodical during the year, and items from previous years that were commented upon or corrected in this year. Departments and other items may also be covered if they have been judged to have archival value. The Author Index contains the primary entry for each item, listed under the first author's name. The primary entry includes the coauthors' names, the title of the paper or other item, and its location, specified by the publication abbreviation, year, month, and inclusive pagination. The Subject Index contains entries describing the item under all appropriate subject headings, plus the first author's name, the publication abbreviation, month, and year, and inclusive pages. Note that the item title is found only under the primary entry in the Author Index."
"Summary form only given, as follows. Alfred Levy (S'56-M'62) was born in Nassau, Germany on 8 May 1927. In 1935 he immigrated with his family to Tel-Aviv, Israel, where he received his primary education. He came to the United States in 1947. He received the B.S. degree in physics from LaSalle College, Philadelphia, PA, USA, in 1961. He served for two years in the Signal Corps at Ft. Monmouth, N. J., where he taught radar from 1952 to 1953. He joined RCA in 1953, and has been with the Produetion Engineering Staff since 1959. Since early 1962 he has been involved in microelectronic packaging and interconnections. He has recently been transferred to the company's West Coast Division in Van Nuys, CA, USA. Mr. Levy has been active in the Philadelphia section of the IEEE, where he was Chairman of the local G-PEP chapter and, in 1965, the newly formed G-PMP chapter. He is a member of the Administrative Committee of G-PMP, and Chairman of the Technical Committee on Interconnections. Other industry activities include the Institute of Printed Circuits, where he played an active part in the preparation of multilayer circuit specifications."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"The electrical degradation of capacitors prepared by sintering glass powder was investigated in connection with crystallization in the glass and sinterability of the glass powder. Crystallization in glass is responsible for a decrease in volume resistivity and an increase in dissipation factor after a life test under voltage stress at high temperature. These degradations are attributed to an increase in concentration of both mobile alkali ions in the glass matrix and of silver ions from the electrode diffused into the glass matrix, owing to the crystallization. The temperature of life test has more effect on the degradation than the applied voltage stress, and is considered to be a determining factor in the life test of a crystallized glass. While the degradation of a capacitor is also influenced by crystallization, it is more strongly influenced by the sinterability of the glass powder from which it is made. Poor sinterability is responsible for the existence of glass particle boundaries, which results in degradation."
"An etched niobium capacitor has been made which shows about a ten to one change in capacitance from zero bias to the rated voltage. The approximate relation between the capacitance and the bias has been found to obey the following equation C= Co (V + gb)~J2' If we assume the eontaet potential Vbto be 0.80 volts, and (C/Co)2is plotted versus 1/V + Vb, we obtain a straight line, thus showing that we are dealing with a p-n junction either at the oxide-solution interface or at an interfaee within the oxide layer. The large bias-effect suggests the possibility of the use of such a eomponent in eontrol circuits at low frequencies in a manner similar to a varaetor diode at high frequencies. Additional Key Words (for Information Retrieval)--niobium, electrolytic capacitor, variable capacitor, solid-state variable capacitor."
"Direct transmission electron micrographs were taken of samples of tantalum thin-film resistors. The resistors were vapor deposited in an air atmosphere at 10-5 torr. An island model was 'resumed for the eleetrical behavior of the tantalum thin-film resistors. Data taken on life tests, temperature coefficient tests, and radio-frequency tests were correlated with the observed structure as seen in a electron microscope. Both anodized and unanodized resistors were studied. An attempt to explain the differential aging observed under an alternating current with respect to the aging observed under a direct current was made."
"Thehot-spot temperature occurring within a heat source is determined for each of eleven sets of boundary conditions. The shape of the heat source is that of a hollow, right-circular cylinder. The internal heat generation is considered to be uniformly distributed. The mathematical model of each boundary-value problem consists of a central difference approximation to the Poisson equation and the temperature and heat flow boundary conditions. Each model is expressed in terms of normalized (dimensionless) variables so that its solution is applicable to hollow, cylindrical heat sources regardless of dimension or thermal conductivity. Some of the solutions are presented in analytical form and all are presented graphically. An example illustrates the ease with which the six-step procedure given may be used to determine the hot-spot temperature in a heat source that is characterized by one of the eleven sets of boundary conditions."
"The author of the above-named paper (ibid., vol. PMP-3, pp. 3-7, March 1967) has called the following to the attention of the Editor. On page 6, the captions of Figs. 4 and 5 should be reversed."
"Electronic transformers are often subject to intermittent or transient electrical loading. As a consequence there are a variety of thermal waveforms which alter, in differing degrees, the aging rate of the transformer. First we define certain basic parameters--the thermal time constant, duty ratio, and relative aging. Various load waveshapes are described. We then see how the concept of relative aging can be employed so as to permit us either to increase the steady-state VA rating or to reduce the size of the electronic transformer, without jeopardizing its life expect- ancy."
"There are many cases where a subassembly contains a number of identical or similar elements. Two examples of this are printed circuit boards on which are mounted integrated circuit packages, and ceramic substrates with integrated circuit chips mounted and interconnected. The cost of the finished subassembly is a function of the repairability, number of elements per subassembly, and probability of a mounted device being successful after application. This paper establishes a relationship giving the yield as a function of the above parameters, and gives two application examples."
"This paper presents some further results of the IBM Electrical Contacts Field Program, introduced previously. The degradation of contact materials over a period of time at six field sites is described as a function of atmospheric pollutants. The results of short-term laboratory exposures of some of these metals in tarnishing environments are compared and contrasted with the field results. Methods that have been found to significantly reduce the extent of tarnish formation on electric contact materials or to reduce the effect of such tarnish products on contact behavior are discussed."
"The bibliography contains 59 references on magnetically operated contacts, of the type known as reedswitches, and devices that use these contacts. A list of 164 United States patents is included."
"Applications of thin magnetic films in random-access memories of digital computing systems have received considerable attention recently because of their potential speed advantages. The necessity for using hundreds of thousands, or even millions of these elements in a single computer dictates that careful attention be given to cost. This paper describes the production design package for a thin-film, 20 000-word rod memory array that offers nanosecond switching and reasonable fabricating cost. Rod fabrication and solenoid plane fabrication are discussed in Sections II and III. Solenoid plane assembly, rod insertion, electrical connections, and final assembly are described in Sections IV through VII, respectively."
"The most pressing problem in electric contact testing is to define the modes by which contacts fail. Until we understand why and by what mechanism contact spots stop passing electricity between the mating members, it will be impossible to devise relevant life-testing procedures. This paper describes an experimental teehnique whereby interfaces can be observed during exposure to moist, polluted air and the degradation of contact spots studied in situ. The reactions that occur are analyzed in terms of the physical effects of the ingress of reactants into contact joints, and the resistance changes observed. The main experimental tool was metallography, including macro- and micro-cinephotography. The distinction between ingress-limited corrosion and reaction-limited corrosion is introduced, and the death of contact spots is observed under the microscope. This technique makes possible the direct observation of the progressive corrosion of an array of contact spots, and reveals in detail how the conducting area of each spot is eroded by the chemical action."
"Tantalum oxide possesses several outstanding characteristics as a dielectric for thin-film capacitors: a relatively high dielectric strength, a high capacitance-to-area ratio, and good mechanical and electrical stability. The high capacitance density, however, becomes a disadvantage for capacitors in the range of about 100 pF and below. Silicon oxide has been widely investigated as a dielectric for low value capacitors, but it is limited by pinhole defects. By depositing SiO on Ta2O5to form a duplex dielectric structure, low value capacitors and large area distributed RC networks can be realized and incorporated into tantalum integrated circuitry. Because of the small probability of alignment between defects in the two dielectrics, high initial yields and improved long-term reliability have been obtained. Duplex dielectric capacitors were prepared on glass substrates by anodization of sputtered beta tantalum electrodes and vacuum sublimation of bulk silicon monoxide. Variables studied were silicon oxide thickness and gold versus nichrome-gold counterelectrodes. Comparative evaluations were made by leakage current tests and life tests at several voltages and temperatures. A 75-volt dc leakage current criterion indicates that high initial capacitor yields of 98-100 percent can be obtained with 130-volt anodic Ta2O5, either 2800 .Å or 5000 Å of silicon oxide, and both types of counterelectrode. These capacitors perform reliably at 50 volts and 85°C. Capacitors with gold counterelectrodes and the thicker films of silicon oxide exhibited a lower failure rate at the higher life test voltages and temperatures"
"This paper describes the effects of a magnetic field on cathodic sputtering in a crossed field discharge. Optimum conditions of gas pressure, magnetic field, and discharge type are suggested for the fabrication of thin-film circuit elements. Pure copper, tantalum, and titanium films were sputtered in an argon atmosphere at the maximum deposition rates of 2500, 1200, and 1000 Å/min, respectively. Very efficient sputtering at low gas pressure was achieved by the application of a magnetic field greater than 1000 gauss, and the sputtering rate shows a maximum at an ion cutoff field. In the presence of a partial pressure of oxygen, titanium dioxide films exhibiting a dielectric constant of about 20 were fabricated at deposition rates of 200 Å/min by reactive sputtering from a titanium cathode. The Au/TiO2/Ti system provides a capacitance of 0.1 to 0.3µF/cm2, with dissipation factors from 0.01 to 0.02 and TCC values ranging from +100 to +200 ppm/°C."
"Summary form only given, as follows. Alex E. Javitz, Consulting Editor, is also Guest Editor for this Special Materials Issue, as he was for the three previous special issues: IEEE Transactions on Parts, Materials and Packaging, vol. PMP-2, no. 4, December 1966; IEEE Transactions on Parts, Materials and Packaging, vol. PMP-1, no. 3, December 1965, and IEEE Transactions on Component Parts, vol. CP-ll, no. 1, March 1964."
"The gold wire-aluminum thin-film joint is treated as a diffusion couple at low concentration, but above dilute levels. Electrical resistance of the joint is directly related to the solute concentration and, therefore, is a measure of the thermal annealing process. Annealing temperatures are related through the diffusion length\\surdDt. Effects of temperature and time can be superimposed thereby. Experimental results on ultrasonically-joined gold wirealuminum thin films showed resistance increase with decreasing bond strength. From an Arrhenius-type plot at 105°C, 156°C, and 203°C, the apparent activation energy for thermal annealing of ultrasonically-joined gold wire-aluminum thin-film bonds is found to be 12.8 kcal/mole. The diffusion model is independent of the method by which the two metals are joined, however."
"Both resistive and insulating cermets were obtained from experiments on co-evaporated materials. Stable resistivities in the 1000 micro-ohm-centimeter range were obtained from mixtures of germanium and chromium, and from a reaction product of aluminum and alumina. Glassy dielectric films were obtained from reaction products of aluminum and alumina, and from aluminum and silicon monoxide. The factors that control these co-evaporation processes are explained as related to coincident vapor pressures at specific temperatures. The in situ reaction of the constituents to form a third material having a higher vapor pressure is considered. Applications of these thin-film cermets to hybrid integrated circuit technology is discussed."
"Capacitor improvements over the years have been largely identified with progress in dielectric materials. In this paper, emphasis is placed on miniaturization, especially as it relates to capacitor dielectrics. Modern capacitors can be divided into two general types: bulk capacitor types, most often used as discrete elements; and film capacitor types, which to date are exclusively single-layered and most useful in integrated thin-film networks. In bulk capacitor types, one strives for minimum volume, and the major volume factor is often the dielectric itself. A dielectric volume efficiency factor can be defined as eS2, where e is the dielectric constant and S is the permissible working stress. In some instances, as in electrolytic capacitors, electrode volume can also be appreciable. For film capacitor types, the area must be minimized and an area efficiency factor equal to eS is important. Consideration is given to contamination control, packaging, and novel structures."
"Polyester, Teflon (FEP) and polyimide, and reinforced insulations were evaluated with respect to various mechanical, environmental, and thermal conditions. The materials exhibited good dimensional stability and roll flex life, in excess of 5000 cycles for Teflon and polyimide, and in excess of 3500 for polyester. One of the Teflon samples delaminated completely during aging (150 to 200°C). At room temperature and the aging temperatures, both noise and numerous discontinuities were encountered during vibration at resonant frequencies ranging between 40 and 550 hertz. At --65°C the performance of the cables was excellent with regard to roll flex life and vibration. An experimental reinforced insulated cable exhibited excellent mechanical and physical properties. Calculated and measured weight savings of fiat cable over round wire are tabulated together with cost savings achieved on a given prototype system. Methods of terminating and harnessing fiat cable are illustrated."
"One of the most effective ways to dissipate power from a surface is by direct~contact heat transfer to a boiling liquid; that is, by evaporative cooling. High flux density can be obtained at moderate temperature differentials, as much as 100 to 300 kW/m2at about 30 degrees with halocarbons. This liquid cooling method has been used successfully to increase the packaging density of components in electric equipment and to reduce operating temperature. Performance characteristics are described for several cooling systems in which heat-generating components are submerged by liquid dielectrics circulating in free convection. Empirical equations for estimating component-liquid heat flux are recommended, and thermal considerations in the design of packages are discussed."
"An experimental transient technique is presented for the evaluation of ferrite-to-metal thermal conductances (h). The technique is easy to instrument, adaptable for a rapid graphical solution for h, and provides five percent accuracy. The technique can be used for the determination of the thermal diffusivity constant of an unknown material. The results are independent of the interface conditions."
"A unified theory of radio-astronomical measurements is presented within the framework of the theory of partial coherence. It is shown how different coherence functions are related to the spectrum, the brightness distribution, and the polarization of statistical electromagnetic fields, and to their measurement. These coherence functions can be derived from the space-time coherence tensor. Various radio-astronomical techniques for measuring the spectrum, the brightness distribution, and the polarization are discussed with special reference to correlation techniques. The connection between the theory of antennas and that of optical systems is discussed. In both cases the theory of partial coherence provides a unified theoretical foundation and an important framework for future research and development."
"Light scattering experiments have been performed using as sources a continuous-wave He-Ne gas laser radiating at 6328 Å and a high-pressure xenon arc lamp, which was limited to a 100-Å bandwidth centered at 6328 Å. Both sources were used to determine, us a function of scattering angle, the intensity of light scattered by latex spheres ranging in diameters from 0.088 to3.49 \\mu. It was found that for the four particle sizes studied, the results agree to within the possible experimental error of 20 percent and\\pm 1\\deg."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"The title of this issue should really be \"Partial Coherence and Other Correlations of the Electromagnetic Field.\" Sorting out the various types of correlations that radio engineers have found useful - of which the coherence functions form but a prominent subclass - is one of the purposes of this special issue. The first three contributions in this issue, and the first communication, are tutorial. Even so, some modestly new material will be found in them, for example, a nonstatistical approach to coherence theory, a first experimental demonstration of spectral impurity effects and the unmodulated Alford and Gold effect, a novel aspect in the measurement of the coherency matrix, and a unified treatment of randomness in sources and media. The following three contributions, and the second and third communications, develop various aspects of coherence theory and experiments. An optical paper is included because of incipient microwave interest in holography. Two contributions, and the fourth through sixth communications, deal with antennas and interferometry. The nine contributions, and the last two communications, on propagation through random media, contain a gratifying amount of experimental data in an area that has been and will continue to be in urgent need of them. Two contributions are on plasma diagnostics by means of correlation measurements, a subject that has for understandable reasons received more attention from optical than microwave engineers. The last two contributions deal with the communications aspects of coherence and scattering, a topic that will surely receive increasing attention in the future."
"Starting from the partial differential equation for scalar wave propagation in a random medium, an integral equation is derived for the propagation of the second-order correlation function. In order to obtain the exact integral equation without resorting to perturbation theory, it is necessary to assume statistical independence of the wave function and the refractive index fluctuations. The physical basis for this assumption is reviewed, and a criterion for its applicability is proposed. The integral equation for the second-order correlation is then transformed into a wavenumber-spectral representation, resulting in appreciable simplification and permitting some direct interpretation."
"The perturbations on electromagnetic wavefronts resulting from the propagation of plane waves through a random medium are resolved into two components: a random tilt and a random residual phase perturbation. This analysis permits the determination of the mean square angle of arrival from knowledge of the aperture plane phase correlation. It also suggests the use of the statistics of the residual phase perturbation in calculations of resolution and of antenna power patterns. The mean square angle of arrival is calculated for linear and circular apertures with various exponential weightings using the description of phase statistics derived by Tatarski from the Obukhov-Kolmogorov theory of locally homogeneous turbulence. Integrals for tilt-compensated average power patterns are derived. It is demonstrated that a significant reduction in the image degradation results when the aperture tracks the random tilt of the wavefront."
"We compare certain reduced data records for scattering of 5-mm electromagnetic waves by two sets of Styrofoam spheres of different diameter, moving randomly within a slab-region Styrofoam container. For the small spheres we summarize raw measurements for the forward scattered coherent phase, for the average intensities, and for the variances and covariance of phase-quadrature components of the instantaneous field; analogous results for the large spheres were given previously [1]. The emphasis is on the relative behavior of the two sets of reduced data records obtained by using scattering theory to eliminate sphere size, etc., from the original data. In particular, we compare appropriate, reduced data with statistical mechanics approximations for the \"hard sphere gas\" in order to delineate differences, and to indicate that the analytical procedures developed for the \"dynamical gas model\" may be applied to isolate the analogous functions for naturally occurring distributions."
"An experiment designed to measure wavefront statistics in 3.2-mm wavelength horizontal transmission over an 18.95-km path is described. A frequency-stabilized signal is transmitted over the path and is received in two spaced antennas having variable separation. The receivers are instrumented to measure phase difference and amplitude fluctuations. A simultaneous beam-swinging experiment using a precision-controlled 4.57-m antenna colocated with the phase difference receivers provides data on wavefront tilt fluctuations. Preliminary results indicate that the random wavefront tilt is the predominant atmosphere-induced wavefront phase disturbance. They further suggest that spatial coherence of wavefronts is of sufficient extent that apertures in excess of 7 m in diameter are feasible at the 3.2-mm wavelength."
"A formalism to deal with propagation in waveguides containing media with statistically inhomogeneous, random, gross inhomogeneities over a finite axial range is proposed. Statistics of the propagating fields are obtained in terms of those of the medium through an iterative perturbation technique which does not use expansion in a small parameter. A modal expansion, with a nonlinear phase progression term in the exponent of the axial dependence of the incident mode, is utilized and permits the direct calculation of all desired field statistics from the formal perturbation expressions for the modal amplitudes and phase progression. Examples are presented to show that many quantities of interest, involving mode coupling and transmission and reflection parameter., may straightforwardly be determined through this procedure. Some prevalent notions concerning the significance of the mean wave are discussed."
"Multiplication techniques are used on a single array to synthesize a product pattern (effectively the product of the voltage patterns of two coincident arrays), which yields the principal solution when it scans a source distribution. A formula for the array-element weighting coefficients is obtained. The behavior of these coefficients for various array sizes is investigated. It is also shown that by using the same weighting coefficients with two separated arrays (forming the \"elements\" of an interferometer) one can synthesize a large aperture which also yields the principal solution. The output signal-to-noise performance of the coincident system is compared to that of the compound interferometer having almost the same power pattern. The improvement factor IF defined as the quotient of the output signal-to-noise ratios of the coincident system and the compound inteferometer, is shown to be always greater than unity and increases for increasing noise levels and array sizes."
"The present analysis considers the effects of Gaussian errors upon the antenna pattern of any array of elements. Analytical solutions for an average pattern and the standard deviation about this average are found. The errors are described in terms of the rms amplitude and phase errors at each element, with a correlation function relating errors in neighboring elements. The results are applied to the case of an array consisting of a sector of a circular array, with the resulting statistical patterns plotted. Then the problem of assigning probabilities to statements about the actual antenna pattern, based upon the statistical plots, is discussed."
"The effect of weak, random inhomogeneities on wave propagation is studied. Of particular concern is the case of long distance propagation where the nature of the wave is significanfly affected by the inhomogeneities. Conventional perturbation techniques such as geometrical optics and the Born and Rytov approximations cannot be applied in this realm. The approximation technique employed is basically a selective summation technique of the type utilized in other areas of physics such as quantum electrodynamics and the theory of many-body interactions. Results are obtained for the average value and two-point correlation function of an arbitrary, initial wave. A physical interpretation of the results in terms of coherent and incoherent scattering and the classical theory of dielectrics is given. Wave statistics and the application of the results to the problem of determining the effect of the atmosphere on coherent optical communication are discussed."
"A theory is presented for the analysis and optimization of systems which process electromagnetic fields carrying information. The theory is thus intended for use primarily by communications and radar engineers. The definitions are motivated by a fundamental requirement that the input-output space-time mutual information transfer be a maximum. The theory can be applied to problems involving nonstationary and nonergodic processes in space and time. The technique proposed is particularly useful in the analysis and optimization of controlled systems carrying man-made information, such as radar and communications. System optimization is carried out by maximization of the trans-correlation function with respect to the variable parameters of the system. The transcorrelation function is a space- and time-averaged correlation function between the desired and the actual system outputs. The optimization technique is applied to the problem of an antenna embedded in a nonstationary medium, such as a hot plasma. The amplitude and phase shading of the array are the variable parameters chosen for optimization of the system, and medium effects, background (object) noise, receiver noise, etc., are considered."
"The basic concepts of second-order coherence theory are introduced, followed by a nonstatistical development of the coherence equations. The various possible generalizations of scalar second-order coherence are briefly described. Microwave experiments are reported in which incoherent as well as partially coherent radiating sources are simulated by suitable arrangements of noise tubes. Two effects in particular are examined: the factorization of the coherence function into space- and time-dependent factors under conditions of \"spectral purity,\" and the spectral modulation of two superposed beams that have a large path delay between them (Alford and Gold effect)."
"Some invariant properties of partially polarized electromagnetic waves are studied geometrically. Transformations of the complex degree of correlation and the degree of polarization are studied in the Poincaré and Cayley-Klein models of three-dimensional non-Euclidean hyperbolic space by means of simple geometric constructions which lucidly show the relationships between these quantities."
"Holograms formed from opaque particles in a clear aperture illuminated with quasi-monochromatic, partially coherent light are considered. The method used to formulate the general boundary-value problem for the pair of wave equations propagating the mutual-coherence function is described. The effect of a reduction in spatial coherence on the resolution limit of a Fraunhofer (far-field) hologram is discussed. Bandwidth considerations of the same hologram define a usable far-field region from which resolvable reconstructions can be expected. The effects of spatial coherence upon Fresnel (near-field) holograms are shown, and experimental results that confirm these calculations are presented."
"Various types of problems that arise within the framework of wave propagation through a medium are classified according to whether the medium or the source is random or nonrandom. When both medium and source are nonrandom, the applicable differential equation is of a deterministic nature; otherwise, it is stochastic. A representative case of a random medium and nonrandom source is the multiple scattering of a monochromatic wave by a randomly perturbed medium or by random scatterers. A case in which the medium is nonrandom and the source random is exemplified by the theory of partial coherence. Finally, when both medium and source are random we have the general case in which waves generated by random sources propagate through random media. The last case, which reduces under appropriate conditions to each one of the remaining types, is discussed in detail and its formal solution is obtained by the perturbation method."
"This paper is a report on the characterization and modeling of a specific dispersive communication channel, a chaff scatter channel. Theoretical and experimental results are given. The basic modeling of the chaff scatter channel as a linear, time-variant, random-parameter filter is given and its salient properties developed. Based on this model, a theoretical analysis of a continuous-phase binary FSK communications system operating over the chaff scatter channel is given. Experimental results obtained in the use of this system on an actual chaff scatter channel are then presented and compared with the theoretical results."
"Correlation radiometry is proposed as a method of distinguishing between collective and individual particle processes in plasma radiation. Several schemes of correlation radiometry are investigated and the appropriate one is selected to examine correlation between radiation emitted at axially separated points in a beam-plasma discharge column at the harmonics of the electron cyclotron frequency. The correlation measurements establish the usefulness of correlation radiometry and add to the understanding of the collective nature of the cyclotron harmonic emission process."
"The theory of the dyadic field spectrum (DFS) of a fluctuating electromagnetic field developed in Part I is applied to the analysis of a particular experiment. The experiment is simply the measurement of the DFS by means of a two-element interferometer. The analysis includes the effect of the polarization and receiving pattern of the interferometer on the measurement and applies to the DFS of a partially polarized, partially coherent radiation field of arbitrary spectral width radiated by an incoherent source. The approach used in this calculation is that described in Section III-C of Part I. It is based on the application of the dyadic Green's function of the electric type for the interferometer. The power at the receiving terminals of the interferometer is expressed in terms of the DFS of the source and the antenna pattern of the interferometer. A method for measuring the distribution of polarization over the source is described."
"Various methods for determining the characteristics of high-temperature plasmas using lasers are reviewed. Ordinary interferometric techniques are discussed with the extension of these ideas to active and passive laser cavity probing. It is seen that these methods well complement existing techniques for the determination of electron densities within the range10^{10}\\lsim n_{e}\\lesssim10^{17}electrons/cm3. Plasma probing using photon scattering is examined and it is shown that the electron density, electron temperature, and ion temperature may be found. In addition a considerable amount of information can be obtained which pertains to the kinetic theory of plasmas. Experimental detail pertaining to these methods is given along with their practical limitations."
"In this paper, an approximate solution obtained by iteration is given for the development of a spherically symmetric mutual coherence function, representing radiation propagating through a statistically homogeneous and isotropic random medium. Only small angle scattering about the radial propagation direction is considered. The results are compared to the problem where propagation is principally in a single direction."
"We give data and theory for scattering of 5-mm waves by Styrofoam spheres moving randomly within a slab region Styrofoam container. The results summarize two systematic programs of measurements for the forward scattered coherent phase, the average intensities (coherent, incoherent, and total), and for the variances and covariance of phase-quadrature components of the instantaneous field. These were obtained separately and simultaneously vs. the number (N) of spheres in the container for concentrations corresponding to sparse gases through dense gases, on to the limiting case of an amorphous solid. Two relatively distinct \"compression processes\" for which the coherent phase increased linearly with increasingNwere studied: the amplitude of the covariance was either as large or as small as we could obtain. The data records for the small case are in relatively good accord with computations; those for the large show departures in the direction indicated by qualitative considerations of the effects of clumping."
"This paper presents a mathematical treatment of the second-order coherence properties of fluctuating vector electromagnetic fields of arbitrary spectral width. We consider only fields whose random fluctuations result exclusively from the chaotic nature of the source. The theory is expressed in terms of the second-order moment of the field vector and hence is a tensor theory. In order to apply it to fields of arbitrary spectral width, the theory is formulated in terms of a spectral representation. The principal field quantity, the dyadic field spectral density (DFS), is interpreted from both a statistical and a physical standpoint. The differential equations and boundary conditions governing the behavior of the DFS within and external to the source are presented. The differential equations are integrated with the aid of the dyadic Green's function and the resulting formulas are discussed."
"The optimum illumination for maximum power transfer between two opposed rotationally symmetric antennas is determined. The antennas have spherical surfaces and dissimilar apertures. Given an angular variation of the illumination of\\cos (\\alpha \\theta), with\\alphaintegral, the optimum radial distribution becomes solutions of a finite Hankel transform."
"The current distribution and input admittance of an infinitely long cylindrical antenna driven by a slice generator and immersed in an anisotropic plasma are investigated. The applied dc magnetic field is along the axis of the antenna. By superimposing the characteristic waves guided along the antenna, the current solution is obtained in the form of a one-dimensional integral, which is examined both analytically and numerically. WhenK_{\\perp} > 0, the magnitude of the current decays slowly with the distance from the source, and its phase is nearly linear with a \"propagation constant\" equal to\\sqrt{K_{\\perp}}k_{0}for an antenna with very small radius. WhenK_{\\perp} < 0, the magnitude of the current decreases rapidly away from the source, and its phase is no longer linear. The input admittance decreases with the radius of the antenna."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"The correlation between the signals from the two antennas in a radio interferometer can be described by a complex correlation function. The real and imaginary parts of this function can be measured by a radiometer using two feedback loops to control four noise sources,B_{pr}(positive, real),B_{nr}(negative, real),B_{pi}(positive, imaginary), andB_{ni}(negative, imaginary). Theoretical analysis shows the system to be stable against amplifier gain fluctuations, and against moderate fluctuations in the phase shifts of the two amplification channels which are included in the system. Experimental verification is described in a following paper by Hubbard and Erickson [2]."
"An experimental investigation on the planar array with randomly spaced elements was made by using the holey-plate technique. Two sample arrays, each consisting of 210 elements over a circular aperture of about 56 wavelengths in diameter, were tested at 71.25 GHz. The measured sidelobe levels were -12.8 dB and -13 dB, in excellent agreement with the theory which predicted below -12.8 dB with 90 percent probability and -13.3 dB with 50 percent probability. Further, one may consider the pattern in each plane cutting through the antenna as that of a linear random array. Thus one may study the sample distribution of the sidelobe levels of as many linear random arrays as cuts. The results showed a nearly perfect agreement with the theory, despite the fact that in the theory the mutual coupling effect was neglected altogether. This experiment seems to suggest that when the average element spacing is of the order of a few wavelengths or more, the net coupling effect on the pattern of a random array is generally negligible."
"A technique is described for measuring the absolute gain of vertically polarized HF antennas. A horizontal half-wave dipole, located near the antenna being measured (test antenna), is used as a reference in a comparison type of gain measurement. A rotatable, linearly polarized, transmitting antenna is mounted on an airplane and used to illuminate the test-reference antenna location. With the airborne antenna vertical, the response of the test antenna is measured. The airborne antenna is quickly rotated to a horizontal position and the response of the reference dipole is measured. When the airplane is in the main lobe of the test and reference antennas, these two measurements yield the gain of the test antenna relative to that of the reference dipole. The gain of a horizontal half-wave dipole is presented graphically, versus main lobe elevation angle, for various heights above imperfect ground. Mutual impedance variations were considered in the computations for these graphs. Model antenna measurements were made at 400 MHz to verify the principle of the technique. On-site HF measurements could give gain figures accurate to within a few tenths of a dB of their true value."
"The absorption equation of Laitinen and Haydon is limited to frequencies above about 5 MHz. Analysis of the data has led to a new equation which extends the lower limiting frequency to 2 MHz."
"A theoretical study of the sheath helix antenna with a conducting core is made via the complex solutions of an associated determinantal equation. The variation of the characteristics of operation with respect to core size and pitch angle is established. A comparison of the complex solutions for the sheath helix and tape helix indicates that a good understanding of the helical antenna can be gained from the sheath model. In particular, explaining broadside radiation in terms of complex solutions is shown to give results in agreement with previously reported empirical data. However, this comparison also points out the limitations of the sheath model in predicting the operational parameters accurately."
"It is shown that VLF timing and navigation systems, which use two or more frequencies to resolve cycle ambiguities, may be in error when the propagation mechanism is dispersive. The error arises if the difference between group and phase velocity in such cases is neglected. At 10 kHz the error on a path 10 000 km long, for a reasonable daytime model of the earth-ionosphere waveguide, may be as much as 400\\mus for the first-order mode. If the second-order mode is dominant as it may be at night the error will be greatly increased."
"The problem of designing a feed system for illuminating a spherical reflector is examined. A method is proposed for specifying the required field distribution over the aperture of the feed system, and the primary illumination and gain resulting from this distribution are derived. The results indicate that a significantly smaller feed aperture can be employed than would be indicated by conventional ray tracing methods. Specific numerical results are obtained by taking the Arecibo antenna as an example, for which a calculated aperture efficiency of 67.5 percent is possible with approximately a 38-foot-diameter aperture feed."
"An approximate bivariate probability density function in elevation angle and rain attenuation is presented for a synchronous satellite communication system. Integration with respect to elevation angle then yields the desired attenuation probability density function. The first two moments of attenuation are found and are noted to be representatively small."
"This paper is concerned with the problem of an axial slot on a circular cylinder clad with a radially inhomogeneous dielectric of the form\\epsilon(\\rho)=(\\rho/b)^{2p}, a \\leq \\rho \\leq b, whereais the radius of the conducting cylinder,bis the outer radius of the dielectric coating, andpis an arbitrary parameter. The assumed profile is capable of representing an inhomogeneous cold plasma whenp > 0and a real dielectric whenp < 0. The apparent advantage of the present formulation is that the wave equation can be solved in terms of known functions and the solution can be extended to large cylinders. Field expressions appropriate to small and large cylinders are found using standard methods of harmonic series representation, Watson transformation, and saddle point integration. In the case of large cylinders coated with cold plasma, the radiation patterns are plotted for various combinations of the cylinder radius, thickness of the coating, and the inhomogeneity gradient. The radiation patterns are in good agreement with qualitative arguments of geometric optics."
"An investigation was made of the traveling-wave V-antenna, which is a combination of a traveling-wave antenna and a V-antenna. This paper includes a description of the antenna, a discussion of the effect on the radiation patterns of variations in such quantities as the loading resistanceR, the apex angle\\Delta, the lengthhof the traveling-wave section and the lengthh_{T}of the standing-wave section. Tests were also made on traveling-wave V-antennas with more than one set of resistors. An excellent agreement between the theory and experiments of the radiation patterns was obtained."
"The general study of nuclear detection clearly identifies the theoretical problem of predicting the effect of the propagation medium on the form or shape of the low-frequency electromagnetic pulse of nuclear origin propagated to great distance in the terrestrial waveguide. This is accomplished with a theory of propagation into which an arbitrary electron density profile of the ionosphere can be introduced using a quite general cold magnetoplasma theory. In a previous paper by the author, the propagation of the ground wave electromagnetic pulse was discussed in detail and the engineering significance of the propagation theory, to nuclear detection systems was considered quantitatively. At distances from the source greater than approximately 100 km, the ionosphere reflections become an important consideration. The theory of propagation for ionospheric waves is introduced into the analysis in this paper. A transient waveform reconstructed theoretically at great distance from the source can be analyzed in the time domain with the aid of a geometric series expansion of the solution in the space domain. Thus, different times on the propagated pulse can be identified with particular reflection regions of the ground and ionosphere along the propagation path. In the geometric-optical limit, the individual ionospheric waves correspond approximately to rays traveling to and fro between the ionosphere and the ground, and the composite pulse at great distance can be considered to be a superposition of a multiplicity of pulses, each pulse delayed in time by the delay time of the ray."
"The problem of received signal degradation for coherent pulse transmission through a rain scattering volume was investigated for large bandwidth transmission at 4.0, 8.0, 15.5, and 34.86 GHz. Calculations of pulse length and total pulse energy were made for different path lengths through the rain volume. The calculations were made for models of heavy and extreme rainfall, using rain rates 49.0 and 196.3 mm/h. The results of the computations show that for the rain rates considered, the dominant cause of signal degradation is attenuation. Negligible pulse lengthening was noted at 34.86 GHz. For rain rates above 196 mm/h and frequencies of 15.5 and 8.0 GHz, measurable values of pulse lengthening were calculated for bandwidths above 2.0 GHz. At 4.0 GHz, measurable values of pulse lengthening were obtained for both rain rates considered."
"A TV, VHF over-the-horizon radio path between Greece (the island of Corfu) and South-East Italy (Martina-Franca) across the channel of Otranto has been studied during 1961-1965. The recorded power levels at Corfu Radio Station indicate permanently ducting propagation phenomena. This is an example of such prolonged conditions observed frequently [3]-[5] in temperate regions and more specifically in the Mediterranean area."
"This paper reports an investigation into the ability of ray theory to explain nonreciprocity on HF ionospheric paths. It first reviews and extends some of the predictions of the ray theory of reciprocity as applied to single and multi-hop propagation paths. In this, ray theory predicts nonreciprocity in phase for single magnetoionic waves transmitted between horizontally polarized antennas. If the antennas are elliptically polarized, there can also be nonreciprocity in amplitudes. It is shown that experimental observations on several circuits using linearly polarized antennas support the validity of predictions based on ray theory. In particular: 1) the correlation between two-way, short-term fading of pulsed signals was positive and high when only one magnetoionic wave was present in the signal, but negative or low when both ordinary and extraordinary waves were present 2) the six-minute averaged path loss in opposite directions was equal within experimental errors for signals that underwent polarization fading. Short-term discrepancies were found and these can be attributed to insufficient averaging of polarization fading effects. Systematic differences in the path loss in opposite directions observed by others could be explained if the antennas were elliptically polarized for transmission paths that deviated from the great-circle path."
"A discussion of the apparent temperature of the sea at microwave frequencies is presented using a theory based on the Kirchhoff approximation for scattering from rough, finitely conducting surfaces. Detailed numerical results on the variation of the temperature with wind speed are discussed for a frequency of 19.4 GHz. The dependence of the rms slope of the sea on wind speed, which is needed in the theory, is based on experimental measurements. It is found that significant temperature changes occur with increasing wind speed for horizontally polarized radiation. The temperature of vertically polarized radiation is much less affected by the wind and, at an angle of50\\deg(at 19.4 GHz), is almost independent of the state of the sea."
"A new type of correlation radiometer has been built for use at decametric wavelengths by the University of Maryland's Clark Lake Radio Observatory, Borrego, Calif. The primary function of this system is to cross-correlate the signals between two sections of the Clark Lake array. The correlated signals are measured by a receiver using two feedback loops which control four noise diodes. Each feedback loop is similar to a Ryle-Vonberg receiver. The system is insensitive to amplifier gain changes, and to small changes in relative phase shift between amplifiers. An additional advantage for radio astronomy is that a linear power response is obtained, regardless of the receiver detector law."
"A method of treating boundary value problems for uniform compressible, anisotropic plasmas is presented. Based on a limited extension to the anisotropic case of the mode decomposition technique developed by M. H. Cohen [4] for isotropic plasmas, this method separates the linearized homogeneous Maxwell-Euler equations including the Lorentz term,\\bar{V} \\times \\bar{B}_{0}(B_{0}constant), into two sets of mode equations: the electromagnetic mode equations which are identical to the standard magnetoionic equations for an incompressible anisotropic plasma and the plasma mode equations which are similar to the well-known quasi-static equations for an anisotropic plasma. This decomposition is not exact, but will provide useful approximations so long as the plasma mode does not approach a cutoff (phase velocity\\rightarrow \\infty"
"The polarization sphere and its stereographic projections, the polarization charts, are useful graphical aids in computations and measurements involving polarization. They may be advantageously utilized in the study and optimization of a technique for determining the polarization of an antenna by amplitude measurements only. In this technique, the response of the antenna to four waves of known-but-different polarization states is measured. From the measurements, three ratios are formed which are the relative polarization efficiencies of the antenna to the waves. Each ratio is representable as a contour on the polarization chart; the intersection of the three contours determines the antenna polarization. Defects or imperfections in the measurement system are representable as translations or distortions of the contours, yielding a simple relation between defects and resulting errors in determination of the antenna polarization. The contours may be used to minimize errors by, for example, choosing the four wave polarization states so that two of the three contours are nearly orthogonal for all expected values of the antenna polarization."
"The radiation pattern of a line-source antenna computed from the complex voltage patterns measured at various range lengths in the near field is given. These results are compared with the radiation pattern obtained theoretically and by far-field measurements. This communication extends the work already published and applies it to a more general situation."
"When excited as a scatterer, a circular conducting loop loaded with an impedance having a circumference of about one electrical wavelength long may resonate in either of two orthogonal electric dipole modes with different frequencies."
"Moving an antenna with respect to the center of rotation of an antenna rotator will change experimental recorded patterns. A theoretical correction for this situation is derived for gain computations based on pattern integration. Use of the correction factor enables an experimentor to obtain several semi-independent measurements of gain."
"Latching ferrite phase shifters, in waveguide, with digital control have been used in the past and have, in particular, found application in phased arrays. The devices are capable of extremely wide bandwidth. The authors present the configuration of a phase shifter constructed with Trans Tech TT1-109 ferrite. It consists of four digital bits giving differential phase shifts of nominally 180, 90, 45 and 22.5 degrees. The wide band response is given and shows the performance of the 180-degree bit. Also shown is the insertion loss of a complete phase shifter with four bits. All measurements were carried out with the ferrite in a state of magnetic remanence obtained from a current pulse of 4 A. The useful range of the phase shifter is seen to extend from the upper edge of S band through X band."
"The Editor has brought to the author's attention and would also like the readers to be aware that an alternate formulation of the above contours of relative polarization efficiency is possible. This results if orthographic instead of stereographic projection is used. In replying, the author notes that the stereographic projection has a number of advantages."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Cumulative distributions of attenuation due to rain are computed for the frequencies 11,18.5, and 30 GHz. The results are derived from a four-year sample of rainfall data obtained on a highly resolving areal rain gauge network in Bedfordshire, England. Lack of correlation of attenuation on both orthogonal and parallel paths is discussed and the effect of path diversity is demonstrated for the frequency 30 GHz. Examples of computer-generated maps of intense rain showers at the earth's surface are given."
"The Wiener-Hopf technique is used to study the scattering of a surface wave which is incident upon the junction of two semi-infinite planes joined together by a step of heighta. Both the planes as well as the step have a normalized surface reactanceX, which supports the surface wave. The expression for the scattered field contains a series of unknown constants which require numerical solution. Graphs of the transmission and reflection coefficients for normalized reactances of 0.1 and 0.5 are presented for a step height of less than haft a wavelength."
"The characteristic features of a tapered anechoic chamber are described. The smooth illumination amplitude in the chamber makes it usable as an indoor range for antenna pattern measurements, even at low frequencies. Variations in the transmission attenuation in the chamber as compared to free space require careful interpretation of absolute gain and cross section data."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Methods of increasing antenna resolution by data processing are of interest in radio astronomy and radiometric mapping applications. This paper deals with the fundamental limitations of such operations. Communication theory techniques using prolate spheroidal wave functions have already been applied to antenna pattern synthesis. These techniques are applied to the problem of reconstituting an observed temperature distribution. The manner in which noise limits this reconstitution process is clearly shown. A least expected mean square error reconstitution process is also detailed. An interesting analogy between data processing and supergaining is noted. Finally, the limitation set by noise on the resolution of a data processed finite aperture is concluded."
"Data from a 25-km path show a 0.99 correlation coefficient between microwave range variation and microwave-optical dispersion."
"Fresnel diffraction from an aperture is investigated in order to determine how the focusing property of the aperture depends on the length of coherence of the illuminating field. The computations show how the focusing property becomes poorer as the coherence length decreases and the focus displaces itself toward the aperture."
"The problem of the interaction of an incidentHwave with an infinite conducting cylinder coated with an inhomogeneous and anisotropic plasma sheath is treated analytically. Numerical results for the farfield pattern of the scattered field as well as the backscattering cross sections are presented for various interesting ranges of the parameters involved. Detailed discussion of the effects of the impressed static magnetic field, the sheath thickness, and the density and profile of the plasma sheath on the scattered wave is also presented. A parabolic electron density profile is assumed."
"The effect of random amplitude errors of continuous apertures on the radiation pattern and on the gain is communicated. A distinction has been made between random attenuations and random amplitude errors with a zero mean value. Comparison with random phase errors shows that,-besides the fact that those have commonly larger rms values,-the effect of random attenuations on the level of the scattered power is less as long as the rms values remain in a reasonable range. Random amplitude errors with zero mean have equal influence as phase errors. The main effect of random attenuations is the reduction of the total radiated power and thus a decrease of the gain."
"The mutual coupling between two sectoral horns side by side is formulated in terms of the rays, modes, and mode caustics excited in each horn. The coupling term is attributed to the multiple interaction between the aperture edges of both horns and is calculated using Keller's geometrical theory of diffraction. It is shown that this asymptotic method leads to an excellent agreement with experiment and is a considerable improvement over more complicated solutions based on the Huygens' principle."
"A method is shown for calculating the ionospheric electron content as a function of longitude and latitude. The results of the analysis of the calculations made of Faraday fading from 251 transits of satellites Explorer 22 and Explorer 27 provide a gradient in the ionospheric electron content over Texas."
"The coverage of a hemisphere byNplanar phased arrays arranged in pyramids or pyramidal frustra is discussed. Transformations between the spherical coordinates of individual arrays and of the hemisphere of coverage are derived. These results are then used to determine the minimum value of the maximum scan angle required of each array and the positioning of the arrays. Numerical results are given. These transformations are also used to minimize the number of elements needed in a given array aperture. This is shown for an example with both equilateral triangular and rectangular element spacing. It is further demonstrated how the use of an isosceles triangular element spacing affords additional reduction of the number of elements needed."
"A class of antennas featuring a steerable notch in an otherwise omnidirectional pattern is described. This type of antenna presents an alternative to a narrow beam antenna for certain applications; it is attractive when a small antenna capable of360\\degpattern rotation is desirable. The notch characteristic is obtained by combining in a single antenna three basic modes of radiation. One mode is omnidirectional, the other two are figure-8 patterns that are crossed in space. By controlling the amplitude and phase of these radiation modes, a family of patterns exhibiting different notch characteristics may be realized. The notch can be steered a full360\\degin azimuth by a single phase-shifter. An experimental model of a notch-omnidirectional antenna has been fabricated and tested at X-band. Notch pattern synthesis and rotation techniques have been demonstrated."
"The loaded rectangular cavity slot antenna is analyzed using variational methods in conjunction with simplified equivalent circuit techniques to derive accurate design guides for efficiency, bandwidth, and resonant frequency. The aperture admittance is computed and the effects of a compound aperture plane iris and of material loading are analyzed. The aperture admittance of all such loaded cavity antennas is proportional to\\mu_{r},\\sqrt{\\mu_{r}/\\epsilon_{r}}, or1/\\epsilon_{r}, which characteristic lends to a common method of optimization of|T|^{2}(transmission cofficient). Experimental results include: 1) measurements of aperture field; 2) a comparison of theoretical and experimental value of bandwidth, efficiency, resonant frequency, and beam pattern for several experimental models; and 3) the measurement of the effect of applied dc magnetic field."
"The correlation function of the fluctuations of the depolarized component of a plane wave as a function of the distance between two parallel line-of-sight paths is derived in terms of the index of refraction variations. A first-order solution to the wave equation is found using spectral analysis techniques. The mean square polarization fluctuation is predicted to have a\\lambda^{2}dependence, in contrast to the work of another author which showed no wavelength dependence. Some numerical values are calculated and the restrictions on the solutions are discussed. At optical wavelengths the depolarized component is extremely small. From the point of view of minimizing the noise introduced by a turbulent atmosphere, polarization modulation seems attractive compared to amplitude or angle modulation. The problem of determining the angle-of-arrival fluctuations when using a wave optics formulation is discussed. If one accepts the statement that the angle-of-arrival is the normal to the wave front at any point, then the correlation function of the angle-of-arrival is simply related to the correlation function of the phase fluctuations and agrees with the ray optics results."
"Measurements of attenuation at frequencies of 8 and 15 GHz, and their correlation with rainfall rate, along a 15.78 km path near Ottawa, are described. Empirical expressions which relate the observed attenuation to the measured rainfall rate are derived and compared with similar expressions obtained on the basis of earlier theoretical studies of the problem. It is concluded that while the theoretical predictions of attenuation in rain are reasonably satisfactory, at least for rains observed at Ottawa, there is a definite tendency for observed attenuations at low rainfall rates to be somewhat higher than the expected values. The cumulative distribution of rainfall attenuation over a six-month period is compared with the attenuation predicted on the basis of average rainfall data obtained during the last five years. Although the agreement between observation and prediction, using the theoretical relation between rainfall rate and attenuation, is good for path attenuations greater than 2 dB, it can be greatly improved if the empirical expression relating rainfall rate to attenuation is used."
"Synchronized oblique step-frequency ionosphere sounding are electrically recorded on punched paper tape without the intervening medium of photographic film. The resulting data are then automatically analyzed to yield statistics on the MOF, LOF, and MPF (a frequency below which multipath exceeds a pre-set limit). The MOF time autocorrelation decays smoothly to 0.87 in 9 minutes and to 0.5 in 65 minutes with minor maxima during the day-night transition periods. The MOF standard deviation between data observed on different days is higher daring the day than at night, and is approximately equal to 0.17 times the corresponding MOF mean value. The electrically analyzed innograms are processed in a manner simulating real time prediction of the above quantities, and their variances. The observed reduction of MOF variance is 0.54 at a prediction lead of 10 minutes, rising to 0.89 at 60 minutes, and is within 5 percent of the limiting values determined by the autocorrelation of the data. A technique for applying the basic propagation predictions to real time frequency management is simulated on a large computer, and reduced to practice on a small sounder accessory computer, with encouraging results."
"A general procedure is formulated for the maximization of the expected directive gain for arbitrary antenna arrays whose excitation amplitudes and phases as well as element positions are subject to random errors. Correlations are allowed to exist between the random fluctuations, and the general formulation imposes no restrictions on either the magnitude or the probability distribution of the fluctuations. Numerical examples are given which illustrate the dependence of the expected gain, the main-beam radiation efficiency, the radiation pattern, and the optimum element excitations on the standard deviation and correlation distance of the parameter errors. It is shown that, in typical cases, the properly optimized array yields not only a higher directive gain and a higher mainbeam radiation efficiency but also a better radiation pattern than an array which is \"optimized\" under the assumption of no random errors."
"It is shown that the backscattering of a metallic loop can be minimized experimentally by loading the loop with two identical reactive impedances. In the experiment, circular and rectangular loops were illuminated by plane waves of various frequencies. It is observed that with appropriate choice of loading impedances the backscatter of a loop can be minimized to the noise level over a wide frequency range."
"A correcting feed, illuminating a 600-ft circle of the Arecibo Ionospheric Observatory reflector, has been built at 611 MHz. The feed has two major components, a four-element linear array with a reflecting screen and a 16-element linear array. The antenna gain is 56 dB and the 3-dB width of the principal lobe is about 9 minutes of arc."
"This work is a sequel to two earlier papers devoted to detailed theoretical and numerical analyses of the imperfectly conducting cylindrical transmitting antenna [1], [2]. A knowledge of the driving-point impedance of the transmitting antenna, as previously reported, and the short-circuit current, as derived in this paper, completely determine the receiving properties of the resistive antenna. It is assumed that an internal impedance per unit length may be defined for the resistive cylinder. This study was prompted primarily by the desire to determine the current distribution along an ionized column of gases when the dielectric constant and conductivity are known, and also along imperfectly conducting missiles in free flight following burnout. The radar cross section of a gas column is readily obtained from the induced current distribution. Current distributions along several representative resistive cylinders as well as scattering cross sections are computed considering broadside illumination by a plane-wave field. The analysis yields accurate results whenk_{0}a \\ll 1, h \\gg a, andk_{0} h \\leq 5\\pi /4. Herek_{0}is the free-space wave number;handaare the antenna half length and radius, respectively."
"The previous formula of Nagelberg for determining the location of the phase center of aperture antennas is examined by calculating the phase patterns of a radiation field. The results show that the phase center should not be located at the aperture, but at the point determined by the expression derived here."
"It is shown that the coherent scattering integral provides a convenient and mathematically tractable method of solving scattering problems of large, low-density, dielectric bodies. In this method the solid dielectric body is replaced by an assembly of particles whose boundary coincides with the outside surface of the dielectric body. Considering the coherent scattering integral, and realizing that coherent scattering comes primarily from sudden particle density changes such as the boundaries of a particle system, it is shown that for low-density dielectric bodies of arbitrary shape the coherent scattering integral yields the physical optics cross section of the dielectric body. Backscattering echo areas for a cylinder, sphere, lens, and various truncated cones are derived and discussed."
"The perturbation technique presented in a companion paper is here extended to permit even gross perturbations. A generalization and modification of the Brillouin-Wigner method, the present iterative procedure circumvents expansions in powers of a perturbation parameter, but retains a normal mode expansion. Much improvement in convergence is obtained over the previous technique, an adaptation of the usual Rayleigh-Schroedinger perturbation expansion, which converges only for small perturbations. Following a demonstration of improved convergence, through an example whose exact solution is known, the generalized method is applied to problems involving time-harmonic electromagnetic radiation from axial arrays of parasitic elements perturbing an open traveling-wave structure. Both the element pattern and the space factor, corrected to include the change in phase progression of the exciting traveling wave in the presence of the parasites, are automatically included in the expressions for the radiated power. Mutual coupling, or multiple scattering, and polarization effects due to the vector character of the electromagnetic fields are also included in the formalism."
"A perturbation technique is developed to deal with axial, as well as transverse, perturbations of an electromagnetic propagating structure which is otherwise axially uniform. The method, an adaptation and extension of time-dependent perturbation theory of quantum mechanics, uses a nonlinear phase progression term in the axial propagating factor of the fields to accommodate and readily calculate, without secular terms, corrections to the progressive phase delay along the perturbed structure. The technique admits inhomogeneities and anisotropy and does not depend upon quasi-static or quasi-optic assumptions. It is particularly useful for axially dependent perturbations which give rise to a phase shift, or to radiation, or to any other effect of interest which is strongly dependent on the phase progression of the wave. The method is first illustrated by an analysis of simple axial loading of a waveguide, and then by a calculation of the radiation from a surface wave structure with a ridged dielectric binding medium. Finally, the casting of Maxwell's equations for general situations into a form appropriate for the application of this perturbation analysis is discussed."
"It is shown that when IF time delays are used to steer the main beam of an array antenna an additional incremental phase shift must be introduced into the local oscillator of each mixer to produce in-phase summation of each element signal. The delay provides alignment of the envelopes while the local oscillator phase shift provides in-phase summation. This condition is found to be independent of frequency and thus bandwidth."
"The radio gain or power transfer between two short electric dipole antennas in free space is derived. When the antennas are above and parallel to a perfectly conducting plane, the radio gain approaches a constant as the antennas approach the ground. As the antennas are raised the radio gain is approximately proportional to the square of the product of the antenna heights. At greater heights the interference between the direct and reflected wave causes the radio gain to oscillate. At low antenna heights on vertical polarization the radio gain is the same as in free space. As the antennas are raised it increases and oscillates about four times its free space value. At greater heights the oscillation of the radio gain has greater amplitude. The maxima on vertical polarization occur at the same height as the minima on horizontal polarization and vice versa. For antennas above an imperfectly conducting plane, the radio gain decreases indefinitely as the antennas are lowered and depends upon the polarization and whether the antennas are electric or magnetic dipoles. Numerical values are given for\\sigma\\lambda = 1. Vertical loop antennas give greater radio gain for ground wave propagation."
"The diffraction coefficients used in Keller's geometrical theory of diffraction are extended to the near field and shadow boundary regions of the edge. Two correction factors are introduced for the amplitude and phase terms of these coefficients and are calculated by comparison with the exact solution. The attractive features of these correction factors are briefly discussed, and their importance in solving near-field transmission problems between horns and double wedges is mentioned."
"Measured admittance of anX-band waveguide radiating into dielectric and plasma layers is compared with variationally computed admittance figures. The waveguide admittance measurements for polystyrene sheets of varying thicknesses compared closely with calculations. The admittance is computed first by assuming the principal waveguide mode, and second by using a superposition of sine and shifted cosine waves as trial functions for aperture fields. Although the aperture fields are shown to differ significantly in the two cases, the computed admittance data are nearly the same because of the stationary character of the admittance expression. The admittance measurements for plasma layers are made during the diffusion controlled afterglow of a pulsed discharge contained in a bell-shaped vessel. Thin Teflon sheets are used to confine the plasma layers to an approximate size of5 \\times 5 \\times \\frac{3}{4}inches. The electron density of the plasma profile is measured by Langmuir probes at various times during the afterglow. The plasma density was measured over approximately 70 percent of the thickness of the plasma layers, and was found to be nearly constant in this range which excluded regions near the boundary. Numerical solutions of the equations for ambipolar diffusion during the afterglow in a rectangular geometry show that the lateral plasma density variations are negligible in the vicinity of the waveguide. The measured admittance and plasma density data are shown to agree with calculations made for homogeneous plasma layers, if a correction is made for elevated ion temperatures for times of approximately 10 to20 \\mus following the discharge. Several computational models consider plasma stratifications near the boundary of the plasma layer but they do not improve the agreement between measurement and calculations."
"The asymptotic behavior of transient signal propagation in lossless, isotropic plasmas is discussed for a typical input signal of a step modulated sine wave. A generalized saddlepoint integration is carried out which gives a continuous solution for the dispersed signal everywhere except at the signal wavefront. The solution which is valid at the signal wavefront is obtained by using a high-frequency expansion technique. Universal curves are presented for the behavior of the distorted signal as a function of the plasma frequency, signal frequency, and propagation distance. The solution is a good approximation for the case of plasma propagation lengths which are long compared to a free space wavelength and for the operating frequency near the plasma frequency. This solution is useful since the available exact solutions for this case converge too slowly to be practically computed."
"The Laplace transfer function for the magnetic field vector of a plane traveling wave impinging on a single semi-infinite metallic plate is found to have real poles, which permits restatement of the transfer function in the form of an infinite product. It is shown that the significant poles of the infinite product have periodicity of(n\\pi)^{2})to within a few hundredths of a percent for a wide range of physical constants. A further practical assumption permits using only the first 10 terms of the infinite product. The resultant simplified transfer function indicates that the single, semi-infinite plate shielding geometry is analogous to a finite number of cascaded low-pass filters with similar roll-off characteristics. Several curves of steady-state attenuation as a function of frequency are plotted using the original closed form transfer function and these curves correlate closely with those predicted by the simplified transfer function. In particular, the similar roll-off characteristics of the different samples of metal plates, the low-frequency asymptotic values of attenuation, and the relative 3-dB attenuation points are all accurately predicted by the simplified transfer function, which relates these points directly to the physical parameters of the metal plate and the dielectric on both sides. A sample calculation of the transient response shows that the peak magnetic intensity of an impulsive wave is attenuated approximately 260 dB for a\\frac{1}{4}inch thick steel plate."
"Compton and Tai have published a generalization of Poynting's theorem for media moving with nonrelativistic velocity, and have given physical interpretations for various terms of their resultant equation. In the present communication, Compton and Tai's result (generalized to include relativistic velocity) is transformed into another form which suggests a very different interpretation."
"Three techniques are presented which can allow the communicator to make maximum usable frequency forecasts. First, one-half hour, one hour, and two hour forecasts are made using running five-day median MOF curves obtained from data acquired by a synchronized step frequency sounder system. Fifty percent of the half-hour forecasts had an error no greater than 0.4 MHz. Second, short-term forecasts are also made using predicted information. Third, an independent forecasting method using selected frequency sampling of the failure time and recovery time of assigned frequencies is presented. As an example, forecasts for a 7800 km midlatitude HF propagation path are presented."
"The effects of mutual coupling on the patterns of unequally spaced arrays are not generally negligible. A simple method for approximating the effect of coupling for the purpose of checking the sensitivity of an array design is presented and justified. Attempts to include the approximation in a synthesis technique have not been successful."
"Limitations are discussed of continuous wave phase stability tests on meteor trail forward scatter channels. Results of pulse tests are given. Extensive phase stability tests results are presented. The stability and propagation delay times of signals that did not fit a classical meteor trail reflection model are shown."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Depolarization is obtained for the scattering of electromagnetic waves from a slightly rough surface using Rice's theory. In the plane of incidence, depolarization is a second-order effect. The results are applied to backscattering from a slightly rough sea using the Neumann spectrum for a fully developed sea. The expression for the depolarized scattered power is of the form obtained in multiple scattering investigations. Therefore, it can be inferred that depolarization from slightly rough surfaces is due to multiple scattering. For the sea, depolarization increases with wind speed and with the magnitude of the complex dielectric constant of the surface."
"The relationships between the squinted beams and sum and difference beams of amplitude monopulse antennas are usually given on the basis that mutual coupling between feeds is negligible. These relationships can lead to gross conceptual errors regarding the basic capabilities of amplitude monopulse antennas. This paper develops similar relationships which include the effects of mutual coupling. It is found that the sum and difference beams are still proportional to the sum and to the difference of the squinted beams but the constants of proportionality, which are related to the VSWR's at the sum and difference ports before matching, are generally different. These constants of proportionality, or VSWR's, can be evaluated in terms of the squinted beams in the case of lossless antennas by applying the principle of conservation of energy. The matched sum pattern gain on boresight and the matched difference pattern slope on boresight are computed for a lossless antenna with squinted beams of the form\\sin k\\theta/k\\thetaversus squint angle. The results obtained are drastically different from previously published results. Both of these antenna parameters are maximum in the limit of zero squint angle. However, for these squinted beam shapes, a small squint angle implies that a very high VSWR is to be matched at the difference port. It is noted that a given pair of matched sum and difference patterns can be produced by different pairs of squinted beams. These pairs of squinted beams can differ in their amplitudes and shapes. However, a single pair of squinted beams corresponds to inherently matched sum and difference ports."
"In making instantaneous angle-of-arrival measurements with a two-element interferometer, the phase difference of the two received voltages is often used to infer the arrival angle. It is found that this procedure yields an estimate of the beamwidth of the average angle-of-arrival spectrum which is too narrow by approximately1/\\sqrt{3}."
"A general analysis of straight wire antennas and scatterers, with arbitrary excitation and loading, is given. The resulting formulas are in matrix notation, in a form suitable for programming on a digital computer. Many numerical results for input admittances, current distributions, radiation patterns, and scattering cross sections of various antennas and scatterers are included."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"The effect of offsetting a plasma (or dielectric) from an infinite slot antenna excited with a TEM mode in a conducting plane is considered, using an impedance sheet as a model for the plasma. Results are obtained for the change in antenna admittance as a function of offset distance for several different values of plasma (dielectric) surface impedance and characteristic antenna dimensions."
"The efficiency of a radiating element in an infinite planar array has been defined as the ratio of the power radiated to the power available from the element. This efficiency is a measure of the strength of mutual coupling effects and also of the average reflection coefficient magnitude at a typical element in the active array as the elements are phased over a prescribed range. An upper bound to this efficiency, which is only a function of the array geometry, exists and corresponds to an array of antennas with certain ideal characteristics. A technique for evaluating this ideal or maximum efficiency of an element in an arbitrary infinite lattice is presented. While this efficiency is readily evaluated for some special configurations, the computation for any general space lattice becomes straightforward in terms of the formalism. The formalism is based on the \"reciprocal lattice\" and a transformed (Cartesian) version of the space and reciprocal lattices. The required integral is numerically equal to the area common to a unit square and an ellipse in this transformed lattice. Results are given for various rhombic and parallelogram lattices which include the square and the equilateral triangle as special cases. It is noted that for parallelograms of aspect ratio greater than about 4 to 1, the efficiency is nearly the same as for the limiting linear array."
"The method of induced magneto-motive force in calculating the complex radiated power of planar apertures in a perfectly conducting screen is reviewed in this paper. The equivalence between the MMF method and the Fourier spectrum method is pointed out. It is shown that the basic formulas involved in the Fourier spectrum method can be derived from the existing formulas found in Green's function method. In the case of an aperture excited by a waveguide, the MMF method yields the same results as the one obtained by the variational method using a trial function corresponding to the field distribution of the dominant mode inside the waveguide."
"The surface of the Greenland and Antarctic continent is covered by a thick ice cap. When the radio waves are reflected from this surface, a large percentage of energy is attenuated due to the dielectric properties of the ice and snow. The average thickness of the ice cap is known to be about 2700 meters by seismic sounding measurements. The surface is composed of snow and becomes harder in proportion to the depth until it becomes ice under the pressure of its own mass. The ice contains tiny air cells under high pressure. The measured value of the dielectric constant of snow and ice is 1.5 to 4.0, and the dissipation factor\\tan \\deltais 0.1 to 0.0002 with the frequency range from 1 MHz to 1 GHz. The propagation loss is calculated to be 0.07 dB/m. The magnitude of the reflection coefficient of radio waves on the surface for vertical incidence is calculated to be about 0.1. From this investigation it is shown that the large attenuation of radio waves reflected by the ice cap becomes an important factor similar to the attenuation of the ionospheric reflection."
"The effect of wave propagation in an anisotropic plasma in the presence of electron density irregularities is studied. The central approximation is the high-frequency approximation under which the Faraday effect is the important phenomenon. Expressions for mean square values of phase departure and logarithmic amplitude ratio have been derived. The theory predicts that depolarization effect of the wave may be important at 20 MHz for ionospheric experiments using satellite signals even for relatively small fluctuations in electron density. Comparisons with experimental polarimeter measurements are also made."
"The standing-wave method of measuring radar cross sections has been adapted for use at 26 MHz. A target in the middle of a large flat field was illuminated by a transmitter 300 feet away, and a probe was moved along the transmitter-target line to measure the amplitude and position of the standing wave due to the target. Aluminum dipoles of different lengths were first used as targets. Both the target cross section and the phase of the scattered radiation varied with the target length in the same way as predicted from previous microwave measurements. The results demonstrate the validity of extrapolating microwave measurements to the high-frequency part of the spectrum. Calibration of the system was achieved by using the known cross section of a half-wave dipole. The technique was used to measure cross sections of trees, street lights, and vehicles. With vertical polarization, oak trees had cross sections between 30 m2and 70 m2, indicating that trees can be an important source of ground backscatter. A street light had a cross section of 240 m2, and vehicles had cross sections ranging from 0.7 m2to 28 m2, depending on aspect."
"A novel expression for the reactive power of a planar antenna is given in the form of the difference of two positive integrals, depending, respectively, only on the TE and TM parts of the field with respect to the direction orthogonal to the aperture. The expressions for the inductive and capacitive powers recently given by Rhodes are then compared with the new results, and it is shown that these expressions identically contain the same positive term (which therefore must cancel)."
"In the context of the backscattering of waves from a random rough surface, a theoretical model is used to investigate the geometrical self-shadowing of a surface described by Gaussian statistics. Expressions are derived for various shadowing probabilities as functions of the parameter characterizing surface roughness and of the angle of incidence of the illuminating beam. The theoretical shadowing functions compare closely with those obtained experimentally from a recent computer simulation of a Gaussian surface."
"The basic theory for dipole radiation in the presence of a two-layer half-space is outlined with special reference to its use as a model for studying radio propagation through and over heavily vegetated terrain. The source dipole may be located above or below the top surface of the slab. The dipole orientation is either vertical or horizontal. The asymptotic derivations for the field expressions are carried out without making the usual assumption that the refractive index of the uppermost layer is large compared with unity. The final results exhibit the expected inverse square dependence of the field on horizontal range."
"An expression is given for the Schelkunoff-Friis radiation influence coefficient for arbitrary orientations of the current elements with respect to the coordinate system."
"An exact solution of the electrostatic problem of a dielectric prolate spheroid placed in a magnetoionic medium under the influence of uniform field is presented. This is a first step toward obtaining a quasi-static solution of the corresponding problem of planewave scattering."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"The impedances of relatively long dipoles in an isotropic laboratory plasma have been measured at 9.2 GHz (Xband). A helium plasma was generated by discharging a capacitor between electrodes in a cylindrical container ten free-space wavelengths in diameter. Impedance measurements were made in the decaying afterglow plasma at electron densities both above and below the critical electron density (10^{12}cm-3). The dipole antennas were fed from miniature solid-jacketed coaxial cables attached to a waveguide on which the voltage reflection coefficient was measured. The effect of plasma on the impedance of the dipole antenna was derived theoretically by treating the dipole as a dissipative transmission line. The theory described in a qualitative fashion the observed impedance variation with electron density for all the dipoles investigated. The measurements indicated certain antenna impedance properties, due to the plasma, which were not accounted for by the simple theory."
"The propagation factor for wave propagation over an impedance surface containing irregularities which are large compared to a wavelength is calculated for the special case of a two-dimensional Gaussian ridge. Sample calculations show that there is focusing on the front slope of the ridge and a deep shadow behind it. Far behind the ridge, the field recovers; at high frequencies there is diffractive gain."
"A refined treatment of Siegman's maximum signal theorem for coherent detection of scattering from a uniform density of small scatterers is given. The relative contributions from various regions in the beam are identified. The effect of attenuation through the scattering medium has been estimated."
"The treatment of total internal reflection of electromagnetic pulses at the sharp boundary of two homogeneous half-spaces is extended to cover the case of total internal reflection in a stratified nonionized half-space. It is indicated that any inhomogeneity of the reflecting medium perturbs each harmonic spectral component of the reflected pulse in phase and amplitude as both the real and the imaginary parts of the reflection coefficient actually become functions of the frequency."
"A method of calculating the phase of an LF downcoming sky wave in the vicinity of a coastline is presented. The complex integral representation for the resultant field, on the homogeneous earth, is modified to take full account of the inhomogeneity which is in the form of a two-section path. It is shown that there is a phase-recovery effect when the propagation is across the coastline from land toward the sea."
"A dispersion curve is obtained for waves that exist on a hot inhomogeneous plasma slab with a glass boundary, It is shown that regions of forward, backward, and forward waves exist as the phase velocity decreases fromc."
"The surface-wave modes in a dielectric slab covered by a periodically slotted conducting plane are investigated. Two methods-sampling and variational-are used to obtain the surface-wave modes. The dispersion curves obtained by the two methods agree very well. The experimental and the theoretical results are in good agreement, except close to the stopband."
"The scattering of electromagnetic radiation from overdense inhomogeneous plasmas in the collisionless approximation is discussed, with a radially varying plasma sphere used as illustration. It is shown that the electric field is singular at points where the local plasma frequency is equal to the incident frequency. In addition, it is shown that absorption takes place even in this limiting case, which cannot be ignored if the approximation is to be valid."
"A Van Atta antenna array, which has a major lobe of the reradiated field in a direction retrograde to that of the incident wave for arbitrary directions of incidence, is analyzed in terms of the scattering matrix of the network interconnecting the antennas."
"A formal solution is obtained for the Fredholm integral equation of the first kind. The unknown function is represented by a completely general Fourier series, and the Fourier coefficients are obtained by an iterative process. The formulation also yields an easily obtained approximate solution, as well as the estimate of its accuracy."
"A line feed for a spherical reflector is considered on the basis of a plane-wave spectrum of radiation angles. It is shown that a feed excited by circumferential slots results in a gain deterioration of at least 3 dB. The correct excitation of the feed is indicated. Expressions for field components in the focal region are obtained."
"The criteria for minimization of the total scattering cross section of a metal-core-loaded dielectric circular cylinder for parallel polarization are discussed. The rigorous expression for the scattered field in terms of cylindrical harmonics is expressed in forms suitable for computer or hand calculation. The phenomena by which a reduction in cross section is obtained are interpreted as resonances for which exact conditions are given. It is shown that when the diameter is less than half the wavelength in the dielectric, the condition that minimizes the cross section is the cancellation of the monopole term in the harmonic series expansion. For larger diameters, the optimum condition corresponds to a compromise between cancellation of the first term and higher-order terms. Design curves are provided over the pertinent range of parameters."
"The derivation emphasizing cylindrical-wave diffraction is given for a high-frequency approximation to the diffraction of a plane wave by a conducting strip. The resulting formulation is basically the same as the formulations of Karp and Russek. The range of usefulness of this formulation has apparently been unrecognized. The validity of the approximation presented here is checked by comparison with the exact solution for strip diffraction; the backscattered field for normal incidence is in good agreement for strip widths larger than0.55\\lambdaand in fair agreement for widths as narrow as0.125\\lambda. This approximation and Keller's geometrical theory of diffraction, which uses plane-wave diffraction coefficients, are compared with measurements made by Ross. Diffraction patterns and echo widths for various incidence angles are calculated for various strip widths."
"Measurements of the phase-quadrature components of the microwave field forward-scattered from random water waves have continued since the observance in 1963 of non-Rayleigh probability distributions of the incoherent scattered field. Measurements of the variances of the phase-quadrature components of the incoherent field at various phase angles with respect to the coherent field have yielded new results not explained by plane-wave theory: 1) The equiprobability ellipse of the phase-quadrature components of the incoherent field rotates us a function of apparent surface roughness. 2) The rotation of the equiprobability ellipse varies more rapidly with roughness for \"narrow\" surface illumination and less rapidly for \"broad\" illumination. 3) The greatest ratio of the two variances appears to rise from unity with increasing roughness to a peak value (maximum departure from Rayleigh), and presumably decreases at greater roughnesses. The data indicate that nonplanar illuminating and receiving wavefronts may be responsible for these divergences from plane-wave theory."
"A new technique is presented for linear array design based on a form of limited amplitude tapering. It is shown that desirable pattern characteristics can be achieved using an amplitude distribution that is uniform over all but a few of the outermost pairs of array elements, resulting in a partially uniform array. This method applies equally well to broadside and endfire arrays, and can be used to place pattern nulls in one or more specified directions or to eliminate virtually all radiation over one or more sectors of space. When compared with Dolph-Chebyshev arrays corresponding to the same sidelobe levels, partially uniform arrays provide a simpler excitation scheme in general and, in some cases, higher directive gain and a lower maximum-to-minimum excitation ratio. Both theoretical and experimental examples are given."
"A summary is given of the effects of a dielectric cover upon the resonant frequency, the resonant conductance of a longitudinal shunt slot, and the power coupled out of a waveguide by a pair of near circularly polarized crossed slots. Typical data curves are presented which illustrate these changes due to variations in the dielectric constant and thickness of the cover. A simple modification of Stevenson's free-space theory for resonant slots radiating into a homogeneous dielectric half-space is used in conjunction with the plane-wave reflection coefficient to predict bounds on the conductance and power variations for dielectric thicknesses greater than about one-quarter wavelength. The accuracy of this simple theory in predicting measurements on dielectric-covered slots is similar to the accuracy of Stevenson's free-space theory within about 9 percent for the shunt slots and about 15 percent for the cross slots."
"The electric- and magnetic-field components produced by vertical and horizontal dipole antennas (both electric and magnetic types) located over, on, or below the surface of a semi-infinite conducting medium are derived and presented for the quasi-near range. (The measurement distance is much greater than an earth skin depth, but much less than a free-space wavelength.) Previously derived results are briefly summarized. The horizontal separation\\rhobetween the transmitting and the receiving dipole antennas is comparable to their heights. The derivations are the result of applying the quasi-near approximations to the basic Sommerfeld integrals and, in some cases, utilizing the reciprocity theorem. When\\rhois much greater than the antenna heights, the formulas for the field-component expressions reduce to previously derived results. It is observed that some of the field-component expressions are characterized by unusual height gain (or loss) functions. Some numerical values for these functions are provided."
"The current amplitude, input admittance, and radiation field pattern of a dipole antenna with a step-function internal impedance were measured in the UHF range and compared with theory. The zero-order theory gives accurate descriptions of the current distribution, the field pattern, the wide bandwidth property, and the existence of the traveling wave on the antenna. The agreement in the input admittance is not good, but it can be improved with the help of the variational principle. The field pattern of this resistive antenna when displayed as a90\\degV antenna was found to be directional and insensitive to changes in frequency."
"The variational analysis of Compton is modified to account for the surface-wave pole contribution to the admittance of a waveguide-fed slot on a ground plane covered with a low-loss dielectric slab. The results of an extensive experimental study to determine the effects of ground-plane and dielectric slab size upon waveguide admittance are compared with calculations using the dominant waveguide mode field as a trial solution. It is found that a waveguide terminated in a flat flange is of sufficient size to approximate the infinite ground plane assumed in the theory. A disagreement of 20 percent was noted for some thin sheet cases. Based upon a thorough theoretical and experimental investigation, it was concluded that tolerances do not explain the error; however, a measurement of the aperture field for cases where maximum error occurs reveals significant distortions. Hence, it is concluded that induced higher-order modes are the probable cause of disagreement."
"The problem of radiation from an infinite array of parallel-plate waveguides with an arbitrary number of the guides being shorted is considered. By Wiener-Hopf techniques, the reflected field in the waveguides and the radiated far field in the empty half-space are obtained. The results are then applied to evaluate the \"edge effect\" of a finite array through numerical examples."
"Shunt-feeding techniques are used to improve the impedance characteristics of the moderately superdirective normal-mode helical dipole. A novel broadbanding effect is observed, and a VSWR less than 1.65 with respect to21 \\Omegaover a 3 percent bandwidth is obtained with no degradation of radiation pattern."
"The integral equation method is applied to find the rigorous solutions of the current distributions on conical, eqaiangular-spiral antennas of arbitrary spiral parameter and cone angle. With a transcendental interpolation function, antennas up to10\\lambdain armlength can be calculated. Comparisons of calculated and experimental results are presented, indicating excellent agreement. The computer programming resulting from this investigation thus replaces painstaking procedures of design, experimentation, and optimization of equiangular-spiral antennas by a few minutes of computer calculations."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"An integral equation is developed for the current induced in a slender, imperfectly conducting wire of finite length by an incident plane wave. A system of linear equations is generated by enforcing the integral equation at a discrete set of points on the axis of the wire, and these equations are solved to determine the current distribution. The scattered fields and the echo area are then calculated in a straightforward manner. Numerical results are presented for the backscatter echo area of copper, platinum, and bismuth wires at the broadside aspect with lengths up to1.8\\lambda. These calculations show good agreement with experimental measurements. In addition, graphs are included to show the current distributions on these wires at the second resonance, the echo-area patterns for oblique incidence, and the broadside echo-area curves for perfectly conducting wires and copper wires with lengths up to3.54\\lambda."
"Users of extended range HF (3 to 30 MHz) radar and communication systems employing the ionosphere desire signal reception at incidence angles near-grazing to the local earth tangent. For vertical polarization, the vanishing received fields at low incidence angles over dielectric earth may be increased by using large ground screens. In this paper a ground-screen formulation based on scattering techniques is developed. The ground screen is viewed as a scatterer in free space, excited by a plane wave. A Fresnel image wave is added to establish the air-earth interface. Formulations are developed for the semi-infinite screen and for the circular-cylinder surface segment screen. The semi-infinite screen is representative in performance to a round screen of radius equal to the distance from the edge of the semi-infinite screen at which the field is computed or measured. For a ground screen on a hill the cylindrical segment is appropriate. Computations for a simulated earth were made and corroborated by experimental simulation with scale models. Improvements in field strength of 7 to 14 dB or more can be achieved with large screens over no screen. \"Relatively small\" tilted or raised flat screens, and cylindrical segment screens, can give improvements equal to very large flat screens on the earth."
"In an earlier communication, the variations in measured antenna patterns on a truncated dielectric-coated ground plane were attributed to dielectric scaling errors. It will be illustrated in this communication, that such measured disturbances are primarily the result of interaction between direct radiation from the antenna and radiation from the edges of the structure, due to the termination of trapped wave energy in the dielectric sheet."
"The design and development of a resonant array of circumferential shunt slots cut into the broad wall of a ring waveguide are presented. This antenna, which is recessed into a metal cylinder and dielectric coated, provides nearly omnidirectional coverage. Calculations using an idealized model consisting of a dielectric-coated flush-mounted array on a metal cylinder were performed and used as the primary basis for design. The array recess design was experimentally determined and shown to control the elevation pattern when the recessed array is mounted on a variety of spacecraft shapes. The tolerance problems and the related trapped wave effects encountered in the development of the array are discussed."
"A new pattern synthesis technique which leads to shaped-beam patterns of approximately equal percentage or dB ripple is discussed. The method is based on the controlled location of the zeros of the pattern function in the complex pattern plane with the relative displacement of these zeros from the real\\sin \\thetaaxis determining the magnitude of ripple obtained with the synthesized pattern. In applying the technique, the locations are approximately constrained by starting with a fan or sector pattern having known zero locations. The sector pattern is then warped or perturbed to the pattern of desired shape by deterministic perturbations of the zeros. It is found that the design ripple of the sector pattern is approximately maintained during this process. A trade-off exists between ripple magnitude and maximum normalized slope of the approximating pattern function. Independent control of ripple level within the shaped-beam region and of sidelobe level without is achieved. Several examples of shaped-beam patterns (including\\csc^{2} \\thetapatterns) are presented and discussed."
"The wire-grid lens HF antenna is a high-frequency realization of a two-dimensional Luneburg lens. This vertically polarized high-directivity 36-beam circular antenna can operate over a 10/1 frequency band. When receiving a signal on a single beam, it exhibits a low binary-error rate equivalent to that of a nest of three high-gain rhombics required to cover the same frequency band. Improved reception is obtained by receiving a signal on a pair of adjacent beams operating in the angle-diversity mode. As a direction-finding antenna, its accuracy is limited primarily by irregularities in ionospheric propagation. Its theoretical performance, which has been calculated with precision on a high-speed digital computer, is compared with its measured performance."
"A solution is given for the active impedance and current distribution on a cylindrical antenna in a uniform, infinite, planar, or collinear array. The analysis is applicable to the case in which the distance in the collinear direction between the ends of adjacent elements is small. The current distribution on the collinear array is found by relating the antenna current and electric-field variation on the cylindrical surface of infinite length which contains the array. This analysis is then extended to consider a planar array. Results obtained are applicable to any combination of element length and array phasing, for arrays with or without a ground plane. Comparisons with other investigations based upon sinusoidally distributed currents reveal substantial discrepancies for some configurations."
"An HF receiving array antenna, consisting of ten 12 to 25 MHz horizontally-polarized log-periodic-dipole element antennas, spaced vertically 16 meters apart on the side of a 152-meter (500-foot) tower, has been erected near Boulder, Colo. It is capable of electronically scanning a sector in elevation ranging from3.5\\degto51\\degat 12 MHz, to1.7\\degto22\\degat 25 MHz. The sector was scanned with a single major lobe which had a vertical plane half-power beamwidth that varied from7\\degat 12 MHz to3\\degat 25 MHz. This array was a part of a system designed for studying the angle-of-arrival of downcoming radio waves from the ionosphere. A sinusoidal current distribution formed a single major lobe which was scanned in elevation by varying the period of the sinusoid. Scanning was accomplished electronically at an intermediate frequency; therefore, the increase in bandwidth of the received signal, caused by the rapid scanning, took place after conversion and did not necessitate an increase in bandwidth of the RF input circuitry. The scanning rate was 524 Hz with the sector scanned by an upgoing lobe and a downgoing lobe in each scanning cycle. Photographs of the oscilloscope display are presented which show the vertical angle-of-arrival of 10 and 20 MHz signals from WWV. Comparison of sinusoidal distribution with conventional shows that the sinusoidal distribution results in half the beamwidth of the latter, 3 dB higher gain, and a lower minimum angle above horizon."
"To predict the loss of gain of antennas due to surface deviations which are not distributed uniformly over the aperture, an extension of Ruze's theory is presented. It is found that the assumption of uniform error distribution, in general, underestimates the axial gain of an antenna whose surface deviations have regional variations over the aperture. This effect becomes significant only when the surface deviations cannot be considered small as compared to the wavelength. Furthermore, it is found that the assumption of a uniform distribution of error may have a significant effect on the predicted scatter even when surface deviations are not large. Assuming that the deviations from uniform distribution are also random, a correction term to the theory is also presented."
"Input admittances of dipole antennas with moderately high internal impedance were measured in the UHF range with the antenna lengths varying from one-tenth wavelength to such a value that the antenna behaved as if infinitely long. The measured results are compared with the three-term theory of King and Wu[1] and with the theoretical values obtained by Shen and Wu[3] for an infinitely long antenna."
"A pictorial representation of the behavior of a phased array which supports a surface wave is obtained by using the grating-lobe series. The admittance crater for a slotted array, covered by a dielectric sheet, is derived and plotted showing several unusual properties. From the crater, the variation of array admittance with scan is also computed and a contour plot of reflection coefficient magnitude is presented on the\\sin \\thetaplane."
"On VHF earth-space links near the geomagnetic equator, the sense of rotation of circularly polarized waves may, under some conditions, be reversed when penetrating the ionosphere. More generally, circular polarization is deformed to elliptical polarization. The effect may cause large, unexpected fades on links with circularly polarized terminals."
"The characteristics of a monopole antenna embedded in a cylinder of low-loss dielectric have been measured. A cylinder of infinite length was approximated by extending the length of a finite cylinder until the admittance did not change. Admittance and current distribution data are represented as a function of antenna length for various diameters and dielectric constants of the cylinders. The results compare well with a theoretical analysis by Ting. The effect of the cylinder is to increase the electrical length of the antenna and decrease the bandwidth."
"The properties of a general class of monopulse antenna difference patterns which are obtained by differentiating a desirable class of antenna sum patterns are analyzed. Their corresponding aperture distributions are synthesized using the Fourier transform. It is found that of the general class of patterns considered, there is one family which gives the best compromise between slope at boresight and sidelobe level. Curves are presented which relate sidelobe level and slope at boresight for this particular family; these curves may be used to design monopulse difference patterns for either a specified slope at boresight or a specified sidelobe level. Simple expressions for the corresponding far-field difference patterns, their beamwidth, and their aperture distributions are given."
"Measurements were made of the surface current density, on highly conducting triangular and square cylinders when the cylinders were illuminated by a plane wave whose direction of polarization was either parallel or perpendicular to the axis of the cylinder. The angle of incidence of the illuminating wave, size of the cylinder, and direction of polarization of the wave were taken as parameters. The errors associated with the current loop probe, when located near the edges, were quantitatively studied. Comparisons with the available computer-calculated results[1]-[3] were made whenever possible."
"The exact or numerical solutions for theH-plane scan and quasi-E-plane scan of a rectangular waveguide array may be combined to give a useful approximate solution to a composite planar array. The limitations inherent in the approximation, and numerical resuits for an air-dielectric thin-walled composite array are presented."
"In this paper the spherical wave expansion technique is used to analyze the general properties of paraboloidal antenna feed systems. As a result, fundamental aperture efficiency and noise temperature limitations are established as quantitative functions of antenna wavelength size. A boundary-value solution is found for synthesis of ideal subreflector shapes in a Cassegrain-type feed system. The resulting surface is found to reduce the classical hyperboloid in the limit of zero wavelength. Applications of this synthesis technique to high performance feed systems and subreflector matching are discussed. Finally, an interesting quantitative cross-check between vector spherical wave and vector diffraction theories is obtained."
"Propagation of electromagnetic waves in forest environments at medium and high (1-100 MHz) frequencies is examined for the case where both the transmitting and receiving points are situated within the vegetation. A dissipative slab in the presence of a reflecting ionosphere is employed to describe the forest configuration. If the effect of the ground-forest interface is disregarded, the radiated field of an arbitrarily oriented, small dipole is found to consist primarily of two separate waves: a lateral wave which skims along the tree tops, and a sky wave which is produced by a single-hop reflection at the ionospheric layer. These two field constituents are compared and their domains of preponderance are calculated for a large range of the pertinent parameters; it is then found that the lateral wave plays the major role since the sky wave is restricted to a narrow frequency band and its amplitude is appreciable only at large distances. The lateral-wave field is examined in detail and is shown to yield a simple physical picture for the propagation mechanism in forests. Its features are found to be qualitatively consistent with the field behavior reported in the literature and the quantitative aspects agree well with the available experimental data. The observed variation of the field with distance, the height-gain effect, the vegetation factor, the basic path loss, and depolarization effects are separately examined and are all shown to express merely one or another of the intrinsic properties of a lateral wave. The ground-proximity effect produced by the presence of a planar-conducting ground is also estimated and shown to be of minor importance in most cases."
"Over the last many years the G-AP Symposia have attracted a predominance of antenna papers, while the propagation papers have gone to URSI meetings. Many members of the Mministrative Committee felt that more efficient use could be made of the time and money spent by the membership of both organizations if both antennas and propagation could be covered in a single meeting, Hence the G-AP Symposium and the Fall URSI Meeting were, for the first time, adjoint in time and coincident in location. Registration figures were as follows: G-AP 523; URSI 502. Everyone With whom I spoke commented favorably on this arrangement, One person said, however, that he could not get away for one week at a time, and thus had to miss one of the meetings. With the success of this arrangement, both the l967 meeting (Ann Arbor, Mich., Oct. l7-l9) and the l96B meeting in Boston will be adjoint."
"This newsletter consists of information that is of interest to APS society members. Includes recent events and meetings involving various APS chapters around the world, conference programs and committees, course announcements, publication information, and membership activities."
"Presents the editorial for this issue of the newsletter."
"This newsletter consists of information that is of interest to APS society members. Includes recent events and meetings involving various APS chapters around the world, conference programs and committees, course announcements, publication information, and membership activities."
"Presents the editorial for this issue of the newsletter."
"Expressions are given for array slot fields in terms of equivalent circuit parameters. The approach neglects external mutual coupling and the higher order modes generated at each slot but does allow for reflections of the dominant mode from the other elements of the array. The expressions for the slot fields are believed to be quite accurate for those situations where mutual coupling is not a significant effect and may be applied to arrays consisting of both series and shunt elements. A new synthesis method is presented which allows for greater accuracy in the design of the slot radiators."
"Presents the cover/table of contents for the proceedings."
"Presents the back cover of this proceedings volume."
"Presents the foreword to the conference proceedings."
"Presents the cover from the proceedings of this conference."
"Presents the keynote address of the conference proceedings."
"This paper will describe a veryhigh frequency (VHF) sample and hold (S&H) circuit which operates at a 120-lMHz sampling rate and is intended to drive a microwave carrier, gray-code analog-to-digital converter`. The 120-MHz sampling rate is ten times faster than that obtainable by the best previously reported system2. through a dual-diode transmission gate. When the gate The input signal is sampled by charging a capacitor is opened, the capacitor holds the output voltage constant than 0.5 ns and the holding time is 7.8 ns.until the next sampling period."
"Lists informal discussion sessions held at the conference proceedings."
"Presents the formal opening of the conference proceedings."
"Lists informal discussion sessions held at the conference proceedings."
"Lists informal discussion sessions held at the conference proceedings."
"Lists information discussion sessions presented at the conference proceedings."
"Current performance of transistors and Gunn and avalanche devices above 1000 MHz will be compared. Since these results are dependent on more than the device alone, the discussions will include packaging techniques necessary to achieve this performance"
"Presents standard definitions for integrated electronics related terms."
"The award winners and the titles of their award winning papers are listed."
"Provides a listing of current committee members."
"Lists information discussion sessions presented at the conference proceedings."
"Provides a listing of current committee members."
"Provides a listing of current committee members."
"Provides a listing of current committee members."
"Provides a listing of current committee members."
"Lists information discussion sessions presented at the conference proceedings."
"Lists information discussion sessions presented at the conference proceedings."
"Lists informal discussion sessions held at the conference proceedings."
"Presents the table of contents for the 1967 IEEE International Solid-State Circuits Conference (Digest of Technical Papers)."
"Lists informal discussion sessions held at the conference proceedings."
"Lists information discussion sessions presented at the conference proceedings."
"Provides a schedule of conference events and a listing of which papers were presented in each session."
"Lists information discussion sessions presented at the conference proceedings."
"Presents the back cover of this proceedings volume."
"For the past year the G-AE Transactions participated in the IEEE's catalog-card trial run by including, at the back of each issue, information-retrieval cards suitable for clipping and filing. The scheme, conducted simultaneously by several of the Transactions, has received little reaction from IEEE members and is now at what a financial analyst would call a \"critical juncture.\" This journal is unwiIling to drop the cards, however, before issuing an invitation to its readers to comment for or against. If a reasonable number of readers respond affirmatively, we will continue to publish them. Moreover, if enough readers ask us, we are even willing to prepare cards for Audio Transactions of the past five or ten years."
"Summary form only given, as follows. The following members of G-AE received the IEEE Fellow Award as of January 1, 1967: J.J. Baruch; 0.K. Mawardi; G.L. Davies; F.C. McLean; W.P. Lear, Sr.; and M. Warren."
"Summary form only given, as follows. The Transactions is hardly an ideal place to publish meeting notices, For one thing, the three-month publication pipeline for this journal makes it difficult to obtain final meeting details and last-minute changes. For another, the Transactions is generally expected to publish substantive material, with only a minimum of nonarchival chatter (like this), The introduction of a G-AE Newsletter permits the Group to keep this journal more or less pure and at the same to keep members well-informed. Henceforth, the meeting Calendar, Chapter News, and other incidental intelligence will be reported fully in the Newsletter, which is planned to appear between issues of the Transactions."
"The IEEE Audio and Electroacoustics Group and the Air Force Cambridge Research Laboratories will cosponsor the 1967 Conference on Speech Communication and Processing to be held in Boston, MA, USA, November 13-15, 1967. Technical topics will include speech production and perception, analysis and synthesis, bandwidth compression methods, the evaluation of intelligibility and quality of speech compression devices, automatic recognition of spoken messages and of talker identity, and computer methods and digital techniques for speech processing. Special emphasis will be given to recent developments such as real-time spectral and \"cepstral\" analysis methods, high-performance and low-redundancy vocoders, electromyography, and application of syntactic structure to speech recognition. Facilities for the Conference will permit a maximum of 300 attendees, and early registration is advised."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"A technique is described for analyzing bursts and burst-like events with a digital recording system and a general-purpose computer. The waveform of the burst is sampled by an analog-to-digital converter and stored on magnetic tape. The digitized samples are used as input data to an IBM 7094 data processing system for which a burst-analysis program has been written in the FORTRAN language. The analysis of amplitude and shape variations of a burst train is completed without manual processing of the data. This technique is used to analyze the acoustical noise produced by a card punch."
"A trapezoidal configuration of the magnetic head which is a better approximation to the actual head shape as compared to the shapes treated so far is assumed. The Schwartz-Christoffel transformation is used to determine the magnetic field distribution around this head shape, and a field mapping equation is obtained. Examples of the field distribution around the trapezoidal as well as the finite head configurations are computed with the aid of an electronic digital computer using the mapping equation obtained. The results are compared and discussed. The digital computer program used is written in FORTRAN II, and is listed and described."
"Infinite peak clipping is a simple way to decrease the signal-to-noise ratio for speech transmission. Investigations of this property are reported in terms of channel capacity; the clipping operator reduces it by a factor of 4. The constant-amplitude wave suggests a possible bandwidth reduction by communication of its frequency; signal-to-noise ratios required are about8ndB, withnthe compression factor. The system includes few circuits and appears promising in commercial telephony."
"A critical survey of Russian publications in those fields of cybernetics that apply to speech communication is presented. In particular, reports on speech analysis, production, and perception, speech bandwidth compression, and automatic speech recognition are reviewed to indicate trends rather than technical details. The paper is supplemented with bibliographic appendixes which include references to applicable books and papers as well as information on their translation availability."
"The spectrum of the acoustical noise produced by typical sources such as business machines is usually measured with analog filter banks. The objective of this study was to perform spectral analysis using digital rather than analog methods. The Cooley-Tukey algorithm has been used to compute the Fourier coefficients of noise samples obtained with the aid of a digital recording system described previously [4]. The resulting coefficients have been used to compute octave band and third-octave band spectra of the noise samples. The digital spectral estimates are in good agreement with analog measurements. Emphasis is placed on the filter characteristic or \"window\" used for the analysis, and the spectral fluctuations which occur in short (65-250 ms) samples of the noise. For one machine studied, the spectral fluctuations are larger than would be expected for samples of random noise. Spectral analysis of impulsive noise produced by a second machine (a manual, key-entry card punch) indicates that spectral fluctuations occur even when the envelope of the pressure-time pattern is observed to be repetitive."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"One of the last places one might look for a discussion of digital frequency analysis would be in the IEEE Transactions on Audio and Electroacoustics. A paper by Cooley and Tukey (1965) described a recipe for computing Fourier coefficients of a time series that used many fewer machine operations than did the straightforward procedure. This saving in computation can amount to a factor of as much as several hundred for usefully long stretches of data. Almost simultaneously G. Sande at Princeton University developed another algorithm of the same class. He used it to calculate covariances with equally impressive saving, though not of the same magnitude. Procedures that provide reductions in complexity of this order may rightfully be called breakthroughs. After the publication of Cooley and Tukey's paper a number of earlier papers were discovered describing the essentials of the fast Fourier transform. But, as has happened often in other fields, these papers appeared too early, and solved a problem whose importance had not yet been adequately recognized. Besides making digital spectrum analysis more attractive from an economic standpoint, the fast Fourier transform (FFT) has changed the concepts of digital filtering, in that the intellectually appealing approach of filtering in the frequency domain is now very often simpler and quicker than by convolution, even though two transforms between time and frequency are employed. In the use of digital systems, the important barrier between the time- and frequency-domains has been significantly lowered. Given the on-going intensive and widespread development in digital circuit technology, this means that many new applications for digital processing will be opened up. The audio engineer who naturally thinks only in terms of analog processing might well become familiar with what the digital approach is now able to offer. He may be surprised. What lies over the horizon in digital processing is anyone's guess, but I think it will surprise us all. "
"The paper discusses the impact of the fast Fourier transform on the spectrum of time series analysis. It is shown that the computationally fastest way to calculate mean lagged products is to begin by calculating all Fourier coefficients with a fast Fourier transform and then to fast-Fourier-retransform a sequence made up ofa_{k}^{2}+b_{k}^{2}(wherea_{k}+ib_{k}are the complex Fourier coefficients). Also discussed are raw and modified Fourier periodograms, bandwidth versus stability aspects, and aims and computational approaches to complex demodulation. Appendixes include a glossary, a review of complex demodulation without fast Fourier transform, and a short explanation of the fast Fourier transform."
"This special issue is an outgrowth of standardization activities in audio and electroacoustics. In 1960, Subcommittee 30.4 on Methods of Measurement of Noise of the IRE Audio and Electroacoustics Committee (Technical Committee 30) became concerned with the characterization and measurement of quantities having a short duration. The subject of this special issue, the Fast Fourier Transform (FFT), is a technique that substantially reduces the time required to perform Fourier analysis on a computer. The first paper, was prepared by members of the Concepts Subcommittee (formerly 30.4) as a general survey of the subject. The second paper, is the keynote paper presented by C. Bingham, Jr., at the Power Spectrum Workshop. Short contributions prepared by four of the workshop panelists follow the keynote paper. Each panelist was at liberty to submit his contribution as an informal discussion or as a formal paper. These short contributions are followed by \"Historical Notes on the Fast Fourier Transform,\" by J.W. Cooley, P.A.W. Lewis, and P.D. Welch. The remainder of the special issue is given to five papers on applications of the Fast Fourier Transform. These papers discuss mathematical developments as well as experimental results obtained by use of the Fast Fourier Transform for the solution of engineering problems."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Poulter previously presented sonagram analyses of underwater sound recordings of various sea mammals, calling attention to the apparent harmonic progression of components of these signals. Other workers have questioned the presence of these harmonics in the original data and have suggested that they may instead be introduced during the analysis. In this paper we use underwater sound recordings of the male killer whale Namu, taken with equipment flat within ±2 dB to beyond 18 342 Hz, the upper limit of the analysis, to show by means of digital spectral analysis methods that a harmonic progression exists. In the signals analyzed, peaks in the estimated spectrum were observed at each integer multiple of the fundamental frequency. In view of the broad frequency response of the recording equipment and the precision of the subsequent digital analysis, we can say with confidence that these harmonics were actually present in the whaler's call. For the analysis, portions of an audio recording were converted to digital form. In the conversion, a bandpass filter was used to attenuate power below 40 Hz and above 10 kHz. Digital analysis techniques similar to those proposed by Bingham, Godfrey, and Tukey were then used. For each time span of data to be analyzed, a windowed Fourier transform was first computed, using a fast Fourier transform program. The power spectrum was next computed, as the squared modulus of the windowed transform, and a correction was made for the attenuation of high frequencies during A-to-D conversion. The autocorrelation function was estimated by computing the inverse transform of the power spectrum. A moderate amount of digital smoothing was then applied to the spectrum to reduce irregularities due to noise. The resulting smoothed spectrum is used as an estimate of the power spectral density function."
"The fast Fourier transform is a computational tool which facilitates signal analysis such as power spectrum analysis and filter simulation by means of digital computers. It is a method for efficiently computing the discrete Fourier transform of a series of data samples (referred to as a time series). In this paper, the discrete Fourier transform of a time series is defined, some of its properties are discussed, the associated fast method (fast Fourier transform) for computing this transform is derived, and some of the computational aspects of the method are presented. Examples are included to demonstrate the concepts involved."
"In the process of hearing, the human ear develops a short-time spectrum of its acoustic input. Information-bearing features of the signal are retained in this spectral analysis. An understanding of the process by which the human auditory system preserves perceptually significant features is valuable in developing speech-transmission techniques. An example of effort in this direction is the phase vocoder."
"The use of the fast Fourier transform in power spectrum analysis is described. Principal advantages of this method are a reduction in the number of computations and in required core storage, and convenient application in nonstationarity tests. The method involves sectioning the record and averaging modified periodograms of the sections."
"Two important considerations in the use of a computer for power spectrum analysis are the availability of a set of sub-programs to perform the necessary functions and an adequate display of the output. The author relates these considerations to his experiences using a digital computer to investigate the cepstrum and other kinds of echo analysis."
"The fast Fourier transform algorithm has a long and interesting history that has only recently been appreciated. In this paper, the contributions of many investigators are described and placed in historical perspective."
"The fast Fourier transform is a computational procedure for calculating the finite Fourier transform of a time series. In this paper, the properties of the finite Fourier transform are related to commonly used integral transforms including the Fourier transform and convolution integrals. The relationship between the finite Fourier transform and Fourier series is also discussed."
"Two methods for using the fast Fourier transform to reduce the number of arithmetic operations and, therefore the time required for computing discrete, preformulated, and finite convolutions are listed and justified. Under the idealistic assumption that the impulse response of a preformulated difference equation terminates, a theorem is proved that these two methods can be modified to compute such difference equations. This theorem makes plausible the application of these methods when the impulse response does not terminate, provided that the impulse response decays to a small value. In such cases, the fast Fourier transform can be used to compute approximations to the solutions, although usually this use of the fast Fourier transform offers no reduction in the amount of time required for computing the definition of the difference equation. However, if a filtering operation is specified as a frequency response, the fast Fourier transform can be used to compute the filtering operation directly without need of formulating a difference equation, although this simplification is achieved at the cost of a moderate increase (e.g., twice) in the amount of computation time."
"A method is given for computing the fast Fourier transform of arbitrarily large size using auxiliary memory files, such as magnetic tape or disk, for data storage. Four data files are used, two in and two out. A multivariate complex Fourier transform ofn=2^{m}data points is computed inmpasses of the data, and the transformed result is permuted to normal order bym - 1additional passes. With buffered input-output, computing can be overlapped with reading and writing of data. Computing time is proportional ton \\log_{2} n. The method can be used with as few as three files, but file passing for permutation is reduced by using six or eight files. With eight files, the optimum number for a radix 2 transform, the transform is computed inmpasses without need for additional permutation passes. An ALGOL procedure for computing the complex Fourier transform with four, six, or eight files is listed, and timing and accuracy test results are given. This procedure allows an arbitrary number of variables, each dimension a power of 2."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"The processing of speech involves the analysis, coding, decoding, and synthesis of speech sounds. The speech analyzer consists of normalizers, syllable and syblet segmenters, sound recognizers, sequencers, adapters, and memories which convert the speech elements into a code. The speech synthesizer converts the code to speech by reproducing prerecorded speech elements. There are many applications for the speech analyzer and synthesizer ranging from limited vocabulary to complete communication systems."
"An experimental speech recognizer is described which exhibits a high level of performance and is practical in terms of size, weight, cost, and power consumption. High recognition performance is achieved by employing the limited vocabulary approach and utilizing a simple set of parameter extractors based upon the single equivalent formant theory conceived and developed by one of the authors. Recognition logic for a vocabulary word consists of circuitry for testing the levels and movements of three parameter waveforms to determine whether they conform to the conditions of acceptability for the particular word as found from parameter data for a large number of speakers. The recognizer presently responds to the spoken digits OH through NINE with a recognition accuracy of 90 percent and an error rate of one percent on live utterances by speakers who contributed the design samples, and only slightly lower than this on other male speakers of similar speech characteristics. The recognizer occupies a volume of less than 0.8 cubic foot exclusive of microphone, indicator, and power supplies, consumes less than 30 watts, and shows promise of a very low eventual cost per word."
"The effectiveness of the helmet-mounted Squad Radio AN/PRR-9 in a battlefield environment is largely determined by the capability of the receiver to deliver adequate sound power to the ear of the user without impairing his ability to hear sounds around him. During the development of the Squad Radio receiver conducted by the United States Army Electronic Research and Development Laboratories in conjunction with the Delco Radio Division of General Motors, emphasis was placed on finding a solution to this problem. High audio power could not be used to provide necessary sound power levels due to the size, weight, and battery drain limitations of the receiver. Therefore, effort was placed in optimizing the efficiency of conversion of electrical audio power to acoustical power. The result of this effort is a low-cost, compact, lightweight exponential horn-driver unit that will provide enough sound power to the user's ear to overcome anticipated battlefield noise. A computer program was used to analyze and optimize the driver and horn parameters for this application. This paper is a discussion of the detailed requirements of the horn-driver unit, the methods used in its development, and the performance of the final units."
"Speech bandwidth compression is based on the present knowledge of human speech production and perception. This is the first in a series of papers reviewing the articulatory, acoustic, and network description of speech and discusses the bandpass compressor, which is a simple example of a bandwidth saving device."
"The logarithmic transformation,Y=a \\log X, of the normally distributed random variableXis discussed in this paper. Particular attention is focused on the field of acoustical noise measurements. The probability density function, mean value, and standard deviation ofYare derived, and a graphical method for estimating its 95th and 97.72nd percentiles is presented."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"High-power amplifiers are needed, particularly in the area of sound reinforcement for public address and auditorium usage. Paralleling a number of amplifiers to obtain the required power level has never been a wholly satisfactory solution. This paper presents the design philosophies and goals achieved in two high-power solid-state amplifiers, rated at 150 and 330 watts, respectively. In addition, there is a discussion on unique electronic protection circuitry which these amplifiers contain, in order to protect the amplifiers and their associated equipments, in the event of system malfunction."
"The channel vocoder is described. This device achieves bandwidth compression greater than that of the bandpass compressor but less than that of the formant vocoder. To date it has been much more widely used than any other kind of vocoder. The channel vocoder exploits the insensitivity of the aural mechanism to phase, and only attempts to reproduce the short time power spectrum of the speech waveform. The spectral envelope of the speech is measured with a bank of filters and ascribed wholly to the vocal tract filter, while the excitation is estimated to be either a quasi-periodic pulse train, or noise. There are several methods of combining these extracted parameters to reconstruct the speech. Several configurations of the channel vocoder are described and the factors which affect the specification of design parameters for channel vocoders are considered."
"A Loudness Monitor for broadcasting has been developed by CBS Laboratories under joint sponsorship with the CBS Broadcast Group and is currently undergoing field tests. The Monitor uses the CBS Laboratories equal-loudness contours, the Loudness Level Summation Method described previously by Bauer and Torick, [7] and a revised ear ballistics characteristic. The steady-state calibration of the Monitor is in decibels re 1 mW into 600 Ω at 1000 Hz. The indications of the loudness level of program are in loudness level units (LU)."
"The extensive literature on characteristics of shock waves provides fundamental relationships for amplitude and length which hold over a large range of projectile size. However, the discussions are spread through many publications and employ varying notation in mathematical exposition. The frequency spectrum of the shock-wave signature has received much less attention than the wave shape, although it is important in engineering applications such as bullet detection. This paper emphasizes engineering aspects. It combines data from a number of publications first to give a qualitative description of the N wave generated by bullet passage and the geometry associated with N-wave measurement. Formulas with consistent notation for calculating N-wave amplitude, length, and frequency spectrum are given. Computed values are compared to results of experimental measurements reported in the literature and carried out at Bissett-Berman. Effects on frequency spectrum of distance and shadowing by interfering objects are illustrated. It is shown that various theoretical and experimental results are consistent and produce a body of knowledge from which the characteristics of shock waves, generated by projectiles and other supersonic bodies, can be confidently predicted mathematically and accurately measured with available equipment."
"The paper first briefly explains the causes of a considerable distortion of transient signals by electroacoustic transducers and reviews the methods used to investigate this type of distortion. Also discussed are certain questions of perceptibility and the importance of the transient distortion. There follows a brief description of preliminary listening tests with piano tones, carried out in order to examine certain disputable statements. Preliminary conclusions are drawn for the evaluation of transient distortion from the point of the perception of transient signals in music and speech."
"A recent study towards the improvement of intelligibility testing techniques has resulted in a very efficient testing procedure based on the use of the Fairbanks Rhyme Test and a computer. The Fairbanks Rhyme Test permits the actual tests to be taken quickly and simply, and the computer provides a rapid, thorough analysis of the test data. Subsequent evaluations of several vocoders, and of the effects of electrical stimuli upon test subjects, showed this testing procedure to be quite effective. Small differences in intelligibility between systems were detected by giving a large number of tests. A diagnostic evaluation of each system was performed by the computer, which pointed out specific shortcomings of each system under test."
"An 18-foot exponential low-frequency horn has been designed and built for use in a home sound system. The horn mixes stereo information below 125 Hz with satisfactory performance down to below 40 Hz. A description of design procedures and violations is given and some curves are provided showing effects of room geometry at three points in the listening area."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"Provides an overview of the technical articles and features presented in this issue."
"Progress in understanding the basic properties of cylindrical antennas and arrays is reviewed from the time of Hertz to the present. The infinitesimal doublet, antennas with assumed sinusoidal currents, boundary-value solutions and recently developed approximations for isolated antennas, circular, curtain, and Yagi arrays are discussed and illustrated. It is concluded that useful quantitative methods for treating cylindrical antennas of finite cross section and arrays of such antennas are now available. These take account of actual distributions of current and the effects of mutual coupling on them, the driving-point admittances, and the field patterns."
"Following a brief historical introduction, the paper reviews the types of data which concern ionospheric F region theory. The physical processes which are believed to control the variations of electron density in the F1 and F2 layers are then discussed. Possible explanations of several F region phenomena are presented, together with a brief consideration of magnetic storm effects."
"A new device is reported which promises to be of significant value in combating in-band interference. By the application of an inhomogeneous magnetic field to a specially shaped volume of nuclear spins, frequency-selective limiting is obtained over a band of frequencies much larger than the unbroadened NMR (nuclear magnetic resonance) linewidth. The NMR limiter is a passive, self-adaptive-filter with the capability of selectively attenuating signals that are separated in frequency by as little as a few cycles per second. The theory of this device is developed, and experimental results are given for a model operating at 30 MHz with a bandwidth of 1.2 kHz. Suppression by 30 dB of CW interference placed within the sidebands of an AM voice signal has been observed."
"This paper contains a new theoretical approach for analyzing Smith-Purcell radiation. The new theory is self-consistent, i.e., it takes into account the effect of the radiation back on the beam. This approach is not only more precise than the previously available one, but it brings to light a number of new effects. It shows that two kinds of waves contribute to radiation, namely, slow and fast space-charge waves, and demonstrates that these waves are of leaky nature. The numerical results show in detail that there is an optimum beam thickness and an optimum beam velocity."
"The effect of atmospheric distortion of an optical wave front on the performance of an optical heterodyne detection system is examined theoretically. With the distortion measured by the phase and log-amplitude structure functions, an exact expression is derived relating the distortion to the detector signal-to-noise ratio. It is shown that because of distortion there is a limit to the achievable signal-to-noise ratio no matter bow large the detector collection aperture is. The minimum aperture diameter which will (nearly) achieve this limit, called the efficiency saturation dimension r0, is obtained in terms of the phase and log-amplitude structure fractions. Using the current theory for propagation in a turbulent medium, an expression for r0is obtained for a receiver in the atmosphere looking at a source above the atmosphere. The expression is in terms of the wavelength, the receiver altitude, and the zenith angle of the receiver line-of-sight."
"A method is described for deflecting a microwave acoustic beam by controlling the group-velocity deviation in an anisotropic medium. The basic principle is presented in terms of a general wave-vector surface. A detailed treatment is then given for the special case of anisotropy due to the spin-acoustic-wave interaction in magnetic insulators. Experimental beam deflection observations in yttrium iron garnet are discussed. A brief discussion of beam deflection in current-carrying piezoelectric semiconductors is also given. Possible applications of this method of beam deflection are suggested."
"Summary form only given, as follows. In the light of a recent letter to the Editor (ibid., vol. 54. p. 1072, August 1966) it may be of interest to readers to know that water tank fading channel simulators of the type described in this letter have been in operation in the graduate electrical engineering laboratories both of the Polytechnic Institute of Brooklyn and of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology since 1964. The MIT unit was developed under the guidance of Prof. Jacobs and uses recirculated water jets as a source of disturbance. The PIB unit operates from 200 kHz to 4 MHz and uses both mechanical movement and/or air bubbles as sources of disturbance. The PIB unit has been described in the literature. Additional results from this unit are presented in a recent paper (\"An electronic probability density machine,\" IEEE Trans. on Insrrumention and Measurement, vol. 15, pp. 25-29, March-June 1966) describing a probability density machine that provides a useful adjunct for such a simulator. Several additional papers describing work done on this unit are now in preparation. The PIB simulator is used regularly both by graduate students taking our Graduate Communications Laboratory course and as a research tool by M.Sc. and Ph.D. candidates."
"The efficient transmission along a curved path represents a problem which has to be solved before the application for long-distance communication can be further considered. Small changes of the direction of propagation can be achieved directly by curved gas lenses. It is the purpose of this letter to describe a method by which a light beam can be deflected with low losses. The method is based on the effects of thermal gradients in gases. The study carried out in our laboratory actually has a two-fold purpose, namely, a) the design of a test section in whch the effects of thermal gradients on light beams can be investigated under well defined experimental conditions; and b) to show the possibility of using such a structure for the beam deflection separated from the focusing gas lenses."
"Pure mathematicians have paid insufficient attention to the properties of positive real functions which are of direct value to electrical network synthesis. It is for this reason that the author records an extension to Rouche's Theorem. Rouche proved in 1862 that if f(z) and g(z) are two functions regular within and on a closed contour C, on which f(z) does not vanish and in addition on C, g(z) < f(z) then f(z) and f(z) + g(z) have the same number of zeros within C. It is then possible to restate Rouche's theorem in form relating to the positive real character of the function F(z), which equals f(z) + g(z) divided by f(z). Since in addition F(z) is real for real z and is analytic in the right half plane, then it is a positive real function."
"The author considers a specific maze shown as a figure. The question is to enumerate all 46 paths between two specificn points. It is supposed that if one tries manually, that he will probably find about three-fourths of all the paths and then become bogged down with redundancy. In the remainder of this letter, the author not only shows how to enumerate all paths from some starting nodet to some end node in a straightforward one-pass technique, but also how to determine the total number of paths between any two specific nodes. The second piece of information is determined essentially for no additional cost. The matrix technique of Murchland (1965) for generating all paths in maze or graph requires the eliminaotion of paths produced which contain a loop. Consequently, the author believes that the method proposed here is more efficient. Also, this new technique has a simpliclty, as found in Moore's Shortest Route Algorithm (1957), which is not found in Murchland's."
"The author considers a e linear time-invariant second order dynamical system resulting in equations representing a first order lag followed by an integrator. The observed output is the output of the integrator corrupted by white noise. The problem is to find the best estimate in the mean square sense of x(t) given Z(τ) for τ between 0 and 1. "
"Over the years, a number of interesting and useful properties concerning the highly predictable nature of the emitter - base voltage of bipolar transistors have been discovered. One such property is that the exact temperature compensation of the transconductance can be realized. This letter will demonstrate another predictable property of the emitter - base voltage in deriving an expression for the emitter - base voltage as a function of temperature in terms of physical constants and the emitter - base voltage at any one temperature. Since a direct attack on this problem quickly produces unwieldy equations, a 'backdoor approach,' based on the transconductance compensation scheme, is e used."
"As part of a program of work on tunnel diodes as frequency multipliers a device was built which produced available power gains of up to 2.5 dB, as a doubler; 50 to 100 MHz, or as a trebler; 38 to 114 MHz."
"The author reports on some preliminary tests which demonstrate that a noncoherent high-power but low-energy nanosecond spark known as the \"Nanolite\" successfully can be used as the source for short-distance pulse ranging of high-repetition rate suggesting range accuracies of several cm. There is promise that such a device can be utilized in a simple and lightweight practical apparatus."
"A series solution of a diffusion equation is built in terms of repeated integrations of an error function and Hermite polynomials. This series is capable of solving many complicated diffusion problems, such as impurities redistribution in a semiconductor during thermal oxidation (a problem of diffusion with moving boundaries) and repeated diffusion under different environments."
"Minima of conversion gain are observed in FET mixers at rather low levels of drain-source voltage. This phenomenon is described by contours of constant conversion gain on the static drain characteristics. The explanation given in terms of polynomial coefficients is substantiated by cross-modulation data."
"The nonlinear partial differential equation for the magnetostatic field with variable permeability is developed for the case in which the medium is discontinuous. These relations are converted to finite difference form and solved by means of a digital computer. The computer program and a sample problem are presented."
"Recent letters have discussed the velocity of energy transport for a propagating electromagnetic wave in a homogeneous, time-invariant medium. This letter, as an extension, treats the same subject for an unbounded inhomogeneous time-varying medium, using similar mathematical steps."
"A description is given of a procedure for constructing two-dimensional conjugate solutions to Laplace's equation."
"The inductive effect in single transistors has been re-examined, Unlimited values of the Q can be achieved by adding a small external capacitor between the emitter and base terminals of a transistor. Some of the theoretical and experimental results are presented for the Q and the inductance values."
"The solutions obtained by White from the effective elastic constant theory are not unique. By arranging c' in an alternative form, and using the same solution method, slightly different solutions are obtained. This result is attributed to the essentially iterative nature of the method."
"This new toroidal inductor has both an internal and external field. It may be thought of as a combination of a traverse and a meridionally-wound coil. The theory is presented and the results of an experimental investigation given to demonstrate the fields produced."
"The Gabor and Stroke et al. [4] holographic multiple-exposure image-synthesis principle, with spherical coherent background, may be used to rapidly synthesize holograms, capable of displaying two-and three-dimensional \"synthesized\" objects, by successively exposing a single hologram from a movable laser-light point with computer-controlled coordinates."
"The van der Pol oscillator with delayed amplitude limiting is treated using the derivative-expansion method developed by the author. Explicit uniformly-valid first-order expressions for the amplitude and phase shift are presented for the case of free oscillations."
"The temperature distribution has been computed for n++-n-n+sandwich structures mounted on an infinite half plane of copper. It is found necessary to include the temperature dependence of the thermal conductivities of the semiconductor layers in the calculation."
"A sheet-like laser beam is observed from electron-bombarded CdS and ZnO single crystals. The far-field pattern extends 360° in azimuth and 5 to 10° perpendicular to this plane. The emission is in a plane perpendicular to the c axis of the crystal and is a result of total internal reflection from four sides of the crystal cavity."
"Optimal control problems with inequality constaints are often solved by penalty function methods. This letter describes a new penalty function approach extending to optimal control the recent work of Fiacco and McCormick in the mathematical programming area. The most important theoretical results are also summarized."
"A new junction device exhibiting current-controlled negative resistance over a voltage range in excess of 150 volts is described. A theory for this device based on conductivity modulation is also presented."
"M. Bernfeld (ibid., vol 52, p. 744, June 1964) has observed that binary sequences have an autocorrelation function which may be obtained by ordinary decimal multiplication of the sequence by its inverse, providing that the columns do not sum to over ten (yielding carries). The present author extends this observation in two directions. The lint extension notes that one can retrieve carries by making use of the symmetry properties of the autocorrelation function, and thus accommodate sequences or codes with a dynamic range of one through nine. The second extension observes that there are alternate means of decomposing a binary sequence of pluses and minuses which yield an easier machine computation than Bernfeld's."
"This letter presents a computational technique which allows one to resolve spectral amplitudes at frequencies spaced more closely than the inverse of data record length. This then alleviates problems often encountered in attempts at spectral analysis of low-frequency data."
"Holograms are apparently the first sources of reverse relief images (pseudoscopic images, as they are more commonly known) in optics. The pseudoscopic inversion amounts to an interchange of distant points on the reconstructed image with nearer points. This inversion readily accounts for the interchange of near and distant objects and the interchange of convex and concave shapes (and vice versa) that are displayed in the pseudoscopic image. This letter wishes to present a very simple physical argument to explain the effect which the author has found very useful in understanding the formation of the real image in general. The argument is based on the concept of zone plates. That is, each point on the object, when illuminated with the laser during the recording process, creates a spherical wave which then interferes with the reference wave to create a zone-plate pattern on the hologram. This pattern shows both positive and negative focal properties and, when illuminated with a reconstruction wavefront identical to the reference wavefront used in the recording process, will produce a real image of the original object point the same distance away from the hologram as the original object point."
"During tests of two-cavity klystron CW oscillators which are spacecharge focused, unusual FM sidebands were discovered. These modulation sidebands could only be detected with a sensitive discriminator and were found to result from video frequency oscillations. The video signals have been shown to be electrostatic sound wave modes of a beam-generated plasma and are similar to those investigated by Crawford (1961). Although they were discovered in the RF spectrum, they were also observable in the collector current."
"A previously unreported absorption which is indicated in the curve of the imaginary part of the external permeability of rod-shaped samples is reported. This curve was transformed from intrinsic permeability data obtained from measurements on polycrystalline garnet samples of different densities. This energy absorption revealed in the loss curve of the external permeability occurs in the vicinity of the dc field at which the intrinsic tensor permeability resonates and appears to be affected by the porosity of the material. The phenomenon is more noticeable at L-band frequencies than at S-band frequencies."
"A resonance-like phenomenon is found from the analysis of the characteristics of the direct modulation of a junction laser with a bias current based on the rate equations."
"An application of insertion-loss parameter impedance-matching filters is made to the design of a broadband UHF transistor amplifier. Examples illustrating the \"embedding\" of other loads of particular configurations into impedance-matching structure are presented."
"A technique is described for producing high-energy beams of metallic ions. The application of this technique to microcircuit manufacture is demonstrated by implanting zinc to prepare a p-n junction in gallium arsenide."
"By dividing an analog signal into a number of nonoverlapping frequency bands and sampling and quantizing each band individually, one can obtain an improvement in encoding efficiency over straight sampling and quantizing for signals whose spectrum is moderately peaked."
"An isolator using a printed interdigital circuit has been considered here. The circuit is fed by a coaxial line with good matching for one octave frequency band. Though the loss characteristics obtained were not satisfactory for practical purposes, because of nonessential causes, the practicability of this device was clearly shown."
"A simple explanation of the automatic power stabilization of microwave light modulation is presented. The explanation is based on thermal considerations of the total amount of heat produced in the modulating crystal by the microwave power and the heat transferred from the crystal to an ambient medium. The results obtained from the theory are qualitatively examined in the case of the modulation with an ADP crystal at 7GHz modulating frequency."
"A voltage tunable Gunn-effect oscillator was developed. Its frequency tunability was approximately an octave in VHF region. The oscillator has a tapered active region: the length of travel of the high-field domain is controlled by the applied voltage."
"Power flow at a position on a transmission line can be evaluated as the difference in power in incident and reflected waves if 1) these positions are restricted to locations where the impedance is pure resistance, or 2) the line is distortionless, with no restrictions on location."
"Five notices: (1) Notice of Adjustment on December 15,1966, in Phase of Seconds pplses Emitted from WWVB; (2) Notice of the Carrier Frequency Offsets During 1967 for NBS Radio Stations WWV, WWVB, and WWN, Fort Collins, Colo., and Station WWVH, Maui, Hawaii; (3) Notice of Coordination between DCF77, MainflinPen, West Germany, and NBS Radio Station WWVB, Fort Collins, Colo., beginning January 2, 1967, in Following the Coordinated Stepped Atomic Time (SAT) System; (4) Notice of No Change in Phase of Seconds pulses from NBS Radio Station WWVB and No Change in Phase of Time Pulses from NBS Radio Stations WWV and WWVH on January 1, 1967; (5) Monthly Fractional Frequency Offsets and Time Deviations for NBS Radio Stations WWV, WWVH, WWN, and WWVB."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"Provides an overview of the technical articles and features presented in this issue."
"A unified treatment of matrix methods useful for field problems is given. The basic mathematical concept is the method of moments, by which the functional equations of field theory are reduced to matrix equations. Several examples of engineering interest are included to illustrate the procedure. The problem of radiation and scattering by wire objects of arbitrary shape is treated in detail, and illustrative computations are given for linear wires. The wire object is represented by an admittance matrix, and excitation of the object by a voltage matrix. The current on the wire object is given by the product of the admittance matrix with the voltage matrix. Computation of a field quantity corresponds to multiplication of the current matrix by a measurement matrix. These concepts can be generalized to apply to objects of arbitrary geometry and arbitrary material."
"Digital filtering is the process of spectrum shaping using digital components as the basic elements. Increasing speed and decreasing size and cost of digital components make it likely that digital filtering, already used extensively in the computer simulation of analog filters, will perform, in real-time devices, the functions which are now performed almost exclusively by analog components. In this paper, using the z-transform calculus, several digital filter design techniques are reviewed, and new ones are presented. One technique can be used to design a digital filter whose impulse response is like that of a given analog filter; other techniques are suitable for the design of a digital filter meeting frequency response criteria. Another technique yields digital filters with linear phase, specified frequency response, and controlled impulse response duration. The effect of digital arithmetic on the behavior of digital filters is also considered."
"Summary form only given, as follows. The original authors of the above-named paper, which appeared on pages 1134-1146 of the September, 1966, issue of these Proceedings, have requested that the following addendum be published: \"R.W. Hockenberger of IBM Corporation, and P.L. Howell of the Boeing Company, both at Huntsville, Ala., have contributed to the analysis and interpretation of the data on a number of the Saturn tests. Their contributions have been documented in References [8]-[lo] of the paper. Their assistance in the overall effort that led finally to the preparation of this paper is gratefully acknowledged.\""
"This paper discusses the operation of a new superconductive logic element. In geometry, the element resembles the in-line cryotron and like the in-line cryotron exhibits gains of greater than unity when biased. The gate, however, is a Josephson junction. The two states, zero-voltage and \"resistive,\" of the junaction are both superconducting states, one being a pair tunneling state, the other a single-particle tunneling state. The transition from one state to the other takes place in less than 800 ps (the resolving time of the apparatus). If used in a flip-flop circuit in a current steering mode, current transfer times are calculated to be less than 200 ps."
"The range capability of gallium arsenide (GaAs) laser radar against extended targets and corner reflectors under both negligible and high background radiation condition is evaluated. The computations are carried out for a space environment. An experimental GaAs laser radar was constructed. The operational results obtained with this radar in the atmosphere against several diffuse targets and a corner reflector are presented."
"Analysis of the signal-to-noise ratio of optical point detectors under conditions of large background radiation (BLIP detection) gives relations describing the background limit to the sensitivity of point-to-point optical communication systems. In narrowband applications, noise-equivalent-power (NEP) has a utility for study of the point BLIP detector which is equivalent to that of the detectivity D*for large area BLIP detectors; for wide bandwidths, a more suitable parameter is the retrieval efficiency β of the receiver. Each of these is expressed in terms of DBLIP*, a quantity graphed in references on infrared detectors. A numerical exmple shows that even on the surface of the earth, broadband point-to-point communications may well be receiver limited rather than background limited."
"The experimental Large Aperture Seismic Array (LASA) represents an attempt to improve the capability to monitor underground nuclear weapons tests and small earthquakes by making a large extrapolation in the existing art of building arrays of spaced and interconnected seismic transducers. The LASA is roughly equivalent to 21 separate subarrays, each consisting of 25 sensors, spread over an aperture of 200 km. The present work considers the problem of designing a linear filter which combines the outputs of the 25 sensors in a subarray so as to suppress the noise without distorting the signal, or event. This filter provides a minimum-variance unbiased estimate of the signal which is the same as the maximum-likelihood estimate of the signal if the noise is a multidimensional Gaussian process. An extensive discussion of the theory of multidimensional maximum-likelihood processing is given. A computer program implementation of the maximum-likelihood filter is presented which employs the cross-correlation matrix of noise measured just prior to the arrival of the event. This time-domain synthesis procedure requires relatively large amounts of computer time to synthesize the filter, and is quite sensitive to the assumption of noise stationarity. The asymptotic theory of maximum-likelihood filtering is also given. An asymptotically optimum frequency-domain synthesis technique is given for two-sided multidimensional filters. This procedure is well suited to machine computation and has the advantage with respect to the time-domain procedure of requiring about 10 times less computation time. A description of a computer program implementation of the frequency-domain synthesis method is given which employs the spectral matrix of the noise estimated just before the arrival of the event. The experimental results obtained by processing several events recorded at the LASA are presented, as well as a comparison of the performance of the frequency-domain method relative to the time-domain synthesis technique. It is found that the signal-to-noise improvement given by the frequency-domain procedure is within 2 dB of the gain obtained with the time-domain procedure, and that the frequency-domain method is relatively insensitive to the assumption of noise stationarity."
"Instabilities at room temperatures in MOS structures having SiO2films deposited by decomposition of TEOS are manifested in a shift, along the voltage axis, of the capacitance-voltage characteristics after voltage stress in the reverse direction. Typical shifts amounted to 13 volts and could not be reversed by a forward voltage."
"Using image theory and the scattering solution for a sphere, the plane wave scattering by a small, perfectly conducting half-sphere on a conducting plane is obtained first. The scattered field can then be identified as that radiated from a combination of electric and magnetic dipoles on the plane. Equating these dipole fields to the corresponding radiation dipoles, we can solve for the induced scattering dipole moments. These moments can now be used to obtain the scattering of a small half-sphere mounted, for example, on large cones spheres, cylinders etc., provided the simpler problem of radiation dipoles on the large bodies has been solved first."
"A circuit is described in which avalanche transistors in parallel generate high-current, fast ristime pulses suitable for driving injection lasers. A 55 A, 20 ns risetime pulse was produced at a repetition rate of 10 kHz. An adjustable biasing technique makes possible the simultaneous avalanche of unmatched transistors."
"The use of several electrooptic crystals provides a means of improving modulation depth for a given modulating voltage. An improvement in modulation linearity can also be achieved if a separate analyzer assembly is used with each crystal."
"A simple relation between the indefinite admittance and impedance matrices of three- and five-terminal networks is described, and conjectured to be valid for other odd-terminal networks."
"Two types of broadband AGC circuits are described, one using a PIN diode, the other using a unijunction transistor. Performance data are given for frequency response, group delay, and AM to PM conversion."
"A thorough investigation is made of the properties of dual input null networks which are known to have the distinctive feature of single-element control of the notch frequency. The results show the principal advantages and limitations of such networks and also the relative merits and demerits of the parallel- T and bridged- T types."
"Attention is called to an important but little-known paper by Mortley which anticipates by at least a decade the Shockley concept of energy-trapping in thickness-shear piezoelectric vibrators such as AT-cut quartz plates. Some extensions of the Mortley theory are also presented."
"Recent results with germanium IMPATT diode oscillators are reported. Both n-p-i-p+and n-p structures have shown noise figures of 30 ± 1 dB when operated as amplifiers under high gain conditions in the 8 to 10 GHz range. This represents an approximate 10-dB improvement over comparable Si devices. Power outputs of 30 mW at 3 percent efficiency and 250 mW at 6 percent efficiency were measured for the n-p-i-p+and n-p structures, respectively."
"A report is given on the construction and testing of a traveling-wave electrooptic modulator that requires a nominal 5-watt drive power to obtain 30 percent amplitude modulation from 0 to 3-GHz. The modulator employs potassium-dihydrogen-arsenate crystals and has been tested at 6328 Å with CW drive power."
"Driving-point immittance of general ladder network can always be put in the form of a continued-fraction expansion, where all the quotient terms are positive-real functions. Recursion formulas for transmission (ABCD) parameters lead us to another form of continued fraction. These fractions, whose terms are not (in general) positive-real functions, are chained by means of negative signs. It is not the purpose of this letter to develop one special realization technique. The intention is only to show that driving-point immittance of ladder network can be represented as an expansion of negative-sign fractions, and thatt his expansion can be used, more or less successfully, for the realization of ladder networks."
"It is well known that the transition matrix is the key step to the solution of a linear stationary state-space equation. In this letter, a new method of evaluating the transition matrix is presented. The procedure is simple and it can yield the result within a prescribed accuracy."
"Two symmetric RC two ports are paralleled and analyzed by means of Bartlett's Representation Theorem. This network yields two notch filters having, respectively, unequal and equal amplitudes at ω = 0 and ω = ∞."
"Stochastic approximation algorithms are used to construct least squares error approximations to density and distribution functions. The approximation is linear in terms of the parameters to be estimated. The only information available to the algorithm is a sequence of independent samples from the distribution of density being approximated."
"It is shown that the invariance of the ratio of open- and short-circuit impedances of a linear two-port can be proved in a straightforward way using the scattering matrix. This leads also to an invariant relation concerning the reflection coefficient."
"A simple method of electronically processing synthetic aperture arrays is presented. The processing technique is based on the fact that synthetic aperture recorded signals are one-dimensional Fresnel zone-plate lenses. By essentially employing unfocussed processing methods on individual Fresnel zone-plates and then appropriately summing the results, a narrow beam \"semifocussed\" aperture may be formed, using only binary electronics."
"A comparison of the photovoltaic properties of pulled and float-zone silicon n-on-p solar cells exposed to 4.6 MeV protons at 30°C showed that differences in the residual oxygen impurity did not play a major role in the radiation-induced damage."
"In integrated circuits, effects of distributed junction capacitance associated with the diffused resistor structure can be reduced by isolating this capacitance from the ac ground. In this letter a pactical method of obtaining is such an isolation is proposed and analytical results are presented to verify iprovement in high frequency performance."
"An extension of Hazony and Nain's passive reciprocal n-port network synthesis procedure to the case of passive nonreciprocal n-port networks is outlined. Generally, more than the minimum number of reactive elements is required for the realization, but the resulting network possesses a series-parallel type of structure which may be useful in certain applications. Transformers are in general required."
"This letter describes a tunnel diode parametron circuit which will generate the third subharmonic of the input frequency. Its operation as a possible ternary logic element is investigated by using it to construct a ternary logic store with \"write-in\" facility."
"Complete agreement can be obtained between the solutions generated by the coupled mode and the effective elastic constant theories. Parsons demonstrated this for White's form of solution, and his results are extended here to include the form of solutions originally developed by Blötekjaer and Quate."
"A transistorized phase-shift oscillator is analyzed with the input resistance and output admittance of the transistor considered as load resistance and source admittance, respectively, for the RC ladder. The values of R and C for minimum feedback attenuation are derived as a function of the transistor parameters. It is shown that in idealized cases, the results are the same for vacuum tubes and transistors, but in real cases the best RC values will differ between the two."
"The numerical solutions of the propagation constant are reported for the lowest-order mode in a ferrite-filled coaxial waveguide. The ferrite is characterized by the standard permeability tensor, and the results are presented as a function of applied magnetic field and of saturation magnetization."
"The response of a linear time-invariant system due to periodic inputs is treated analytically and then evaluated numerically. This approach usually gives more insight into the problem, uses less computation time, and has greater numerical control as compared with methods using numerical integration."
"A practical method of construction for quasi-variable delay lines with high delay-to-rise time ratios, high resolution, zero delay capability, and rapid delay variation is described. The method employs tapped networks with taps connected to a common output bus via light-dependent resistors or switches. The application of such devices to Gersho's time-scaling scheme is discussed."
"A description is given of a way of obtaining coherent CW microwaves from many time-sequentially pulsed GaAs bulk-effect devices with the aid of a synchronization technique. Frequency-locking range measurement for the devices with the purely resistive load is shown to be useful for their fundamental investigations and practical applications."
"An expression is derived for the effective field for microwave breakdown for a gas in an external dc magnetic field. This expression is valid for any random signal, provided it is stationary."
"A current, represented as the sum of a number of sinusoidal components, is injected into an oscillator comprising a linear network connected to a nonlinear negative resistance. It is shown how the oscillator frequency depends on the magnitudes of the perturbation and on the voltages of various frequencies produced by it."
"MOS diodes were fabricated on p-type silicon substrates. The oxide was grown at 1200°C in a steam ambient Capacitance-bias voltage curves were taken before and after elevated-temperature, applied-bias annealing periods. It was found that the device surface could be permanently converted to n-type and then recovered."
"The probability P(k) that two non-negative random variables X and Y are within K ≡ 20 log10k dB of each other is investigated. When the joint probability density function is symmetric in X and Y, then P(k) = 2FZ(k) - 1, where FZis the cumulative distribution function of the ratio Z ≡ (X/Y). Finally, P(k) is evaluated for the case in which X and Y are correlated Rayleigh variates."
"Diffraction of light by surface acoustic waves in quartz is reported. Optical heterodyne detection of the diffracted light is described. Experimental observations are shown to be in approximate agreement with theoretical predictions."
"Through an oversight no reference was made in the above-named letter to the publication by E.S. Rittner and G.F. Neumark (\"Theory of the surface gate dielectric triode,\" in Solid-state Electronics, vol. 9, pp. 88-98. September 1966), a copy of which was available to us before its publication. The theoretical results of this paper were found to be extremely valuable in the interpretation of our experimental results."
"Two notices: (1) Notice of No Change in Phase of Seconds Pulses from NBS Radio Station WWVB and No Change in Phase of Time Pulses from NBS Radio Stations WWV and and WWVH on February 1, 1967; (2) Monthly Fractional Frequency Offsets and Time Deviations for NBS Radio Stations WWV, WWVH, WWVL, and WWVB."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"Provides an overview of the technical articles and features presented in this issue."
"Acceptance of redundancy reduction as a practical method of bandwidth and/or power conservation is a significant tread in aerospace communication and telemetry. Techniques for accomplishing data compression are discussed, examples of performance are given, and a machine design for aerospace vehicle use is described. Methods of achieving greater flexibility by combining the redundancy reduction techniques with an electronically programmable telemetry system are discussed. Application of these techniques to other data management problems is also described. A list of relevant publications is provided."
"Redundancy reduction processes have proven highly effective in compressing the bandwidth of pictorial data. Compression is achieved by approximating the video time function with polynomial sequences. This paper presents experimental results obtained by computer simulation, demonstrating the effectiveness of redundancy reduction when applied to different examples of pictorial material. Some of the practical considerations in implementing bandwidth compression systems for both black-and-white and color television are also discussed. Based upon these simulation results and laboratory investigations, it is estimated that video bandwidth reductions from two to four can be accomplished with the present state-of-the-art."
"Data compression techniques are classified into four categories which describe the effect a compression method has on the form of the signal transmitted. Each category is defined and examples of techniques in each category are given. Compression methods which have received previous investigation, such as the geometric aperture methods, as well as techniques which have not received much attention, such as Fourier filter, optimum discrete filter, and variable sampling rate compression, are described. Results of computer simulations with real data are presented for each method in terms of rms and peak errors versus compression ratio. It is shown that, in general, the geometric aperture techniques give results comparable to or better than the more \"exotic\" methods and are more economical to implement at the present state-of-the-art. In addition, the aperture compression methods provide bounded peak error which is not readily obtainable with other methods. A general system design is given for a stored-logic data compression system with adaptive buffer control to prevent loss of data and to provide efficient transmission of multiplexed channels with compressed data. An adaptive buffer design is described which is shown to be practical, based on computer simulations with five different types of representative data."
"Three redundancy removal bandwidth compression algorithms --the floating-aperture predictor, the zero-order interpolator, and the fan interpolator--are analyzed. Theoretical expressions are found for the mean and mean-square times between output samples of these devices when the input signal is a Markov process. These expressions are evaluated for the case in which the input is a first-order Gaussian Markov process, and the resulting output sampling rates and transmission bandwidths are compared to those required by a PCM system using uniform sampling and optimum linear filter interpolation. It is shown that, given sufficient a priori knowledge of the signal process, there is little to be gained by using these redundancy removal techniques in place of the PCM system. However, if the signal statistics are unknown, the use of these algorithms instead of PCM may provide a considerable bandwidth reduction."
"When an analog signal is encoded into digital form and then decoded back into an analog signal, quantizing noise is always introduced. The amount of quantizing noise which contaminates the decoded analog signal is inextricably tied to the amount of redundancy present in the signal and in the digital bit stream. Reducing the quantizing noise and, therefore, increasing the fidelity of the resulting signal requires that the redundancy in the digital bit stream be reduced or eliminated. There is a point, however, beyond which the quantizing noise cannot be further reduced. This is discussed in quantitative terms by deriving an upper bound on the signal-to-quantizing noise power ratio possible for a given bit rate and signal ensemble. Ratios of signal-to-quantizing noise greater than this bound are not possible for digital encoding systems. This bound is compared with the operation of pulse code modulation, differential pulse code modulation, and delta modulation systems."
"An adjustable uniform quantizer dependent on observation of blocks of quantized samples is investigated. In this quantizer, the range the samples are expected to occupy within a block is predicted from observation of the previous block. Then the upper and lower saturation levels of the quantizer are adjusted independently to correspond to this predicted range. This procedure is repeated for each new observed block of samples. The adaptive quantizer is evaluated by means of a computer simulation, comparing it to a uniform quantizer with fixed saturation levels. The system is evaluated for television signals, spacecraft engineering sensor signals, and a multiple Gaussian Markov process. For the television signals, the adaptive quantizer acquires a \"variable-range\" mode of operation, making use of coherence between successive lines in a frame to achieve a reduction in error. When processing the other signals, the adaptive quantizer acquires a \"fixed-range variable-mean\" mode of operation achieving reductions in mean squared quantization error from 30 to 90 percent. A comparison with an ideal quantizer illustrates the ability of the adaptive quantizer to make effective use of coherence between samples to achieve a reduction in quantization error."
"New results are presented, offering insight into the performance and optimization of linear and adaptive delta modulation, together with a comparison with pulse code modulation. The results are applied to three cases of practical interest: television, speech, and broadband signals. The results are presented as follows: first, a characterization of the quantization noise of linear delta modulation (DM) is given; second, an adaptive DM system which seems promising for television and speech is evaluated; and third, a comparison between pulse code modulation (PCM) and adaptive DM is made for speech, television, and broadband signals. It is concluded that 1) the adaptive system provides DM with a companding capability, 2) adaptive DM offers a bit rate or channel bandwidth reduction capability in comparison with PCM for television signals, 3) adaptive DM appears better suited to television and speech signals than linear DM, 4) the maximum S/N performance of adaptive DM is the same as that of linear DM, 5) the companding improvement offered by adaptive DM is not limited by the same practical considerations as those of PCM, and 6) the S/N performance of adaptive DM is the same for both Gaussian and exponential signal densities."
"This report describes the results of a study of Statistical Delta Modulation (SDM), a new method of digital transmission of analog information [1]. In this method the system design is tailored to the statistical properties of the input data so as to provide analog reconstruction values with a minimum mean squared error. The method of system design is an iterative procedure in which conditional means are evaluated based upon actual input data. The report presents the theory of operation of the system and describes the results of a computer simulation in which such questions as the effects of sampling rate, channel noise, system memory, and mismatched input processes are discussed. At the present time only a brief comparison has been made with conventional techniques. It was found that at low sampling rates and for a particular non-Gaussian process, sampling rate reductions of 38 percent could be achieved relative to a conventional delta modulation system at the same SNR performance."
"A critical view is presented of the development of certain picture coding systems. An attempt is made to unify the treatment of these systems by emphasizing the reaction of the observer to the types of alteration introduced into the transmitted signal, on the basis of what is known about vision. For the purpose of casting a number of apparently different techniques into similar forms, the relationship between differential quantizing and PCM is discussed in detail. We conclude that the pre- and post-quantizing filters play a key role in these systems. Optimum choice of such filters is shown to improve both quality and efficiency. Two-dimensional and dual-mode systems are seen to be outgrowths of these considerations. Recent results are described and a method of comparison between systems is proposed."
"We present some results concerning the effects of changes in system parameters on the picture quality in PCM transmission systems. We restrict our attention to low-resolution monochrome still pictures, and discuss in particular the effects of the number of samples per frame, the number of brightness levels, the scanning pattern, and the channel noise, with a view to the optimal choice of these parameters."
"The results of a computer simulation of an image transmission system are reported. A reduction in the total number of bits required to describe a picture by a factor of 4 to 23 is possible as compared with 6-bit PCM. In this system an image is treated as a two-dimensional signal of the spatial coordinates x and y. The large changes in brightness in a picture occur at the edges of objects and are accentuated by the visual system. The edge points can be isolated by the gradient or Laplacian operator. The fact that these edge points lie along connected contours in two dimensions is used to code the location and characteristics of each point efficiently. Two-dimensional reconstruction filters are derived to synthesize the high frequency picture from the decoded edge information. A two-dimensional low-pass or out-of-focus picture is also formed which can be transmitted with a relatively small number of bits. After a possible accentuation to make the picture appear \"sharper,\" the \"synthetic highs\" signal is added to the low-pass picture to yield the final output."
"An optimization of a PCM coding system has been evaluated. The system consists of a linear signal predistortion filter, a linear network in a noise-feedback loop around the quantizer, and a linear reconstruction network. Synthesis procedures for these filters to minimize the runs weighted noise have been reported [1]. Results of a program of subjective testing show that the subjectively optimum system is nearly the same as that predicted theoretically. With a sampling frequency of twice the signal bandwidth and three-bit quantization, the optimum system gives nearly a 12-dB improvement in subjective signal-to-weighted-noise ratio over a conventional quantization system with no filtering."
"A pseudo-random quantizer has been constructed to operate in a standard 405-line television system using a digital channel of only two bits per sample capacity. The \"dirty window\" effect on moving pictures of a synchronized dither signal has been converted to noiselike flicker equivalent to 30 dB S/N ratio."
"The transmitter/receiver system for bandwidth or data-rate compression of television signals, described herein, is a prototype model of the experimental system of Cherry et al. [1]. The system is suitable for both black-and-white or half-tone pictures, in realistic noise conditions. The system parameters my be adjusted so that an optimum run-length encoding may be found; the great advantages of run-length quantizing are shown, especially with regard to practical instrumentation, leading to the use of buffer stores of modest capacity. One particular cheap form of receiver operates on a quantized-variable-velocity principle and, being much more simple and cheap than the transmitter, is suitable for use in situations requiring many receivers."
"The first stage of efficiently coding television signals--the nonreversible process of obtaining a discrete signal--is investigated. The process depends on the properties of the source and the receiver which in this case is the human sense of vision. Emphasis is given to the examination of the properties of the receiver and the selection of an appropriate criterion of performance. The criterion adopted is the probabilistic measure of viewer preference in a direct comparative judgment between the original and the coded-decoded version. For this criterion the precision with which picture components need be reproduced will depend primarily on the visual thresholds associated with the picture components. The \"Optimum Decision\" model of threshold vision is investigated using the criterion. As an example a practical encoder is discussed which is designed around the loss of sensitivity of the visual system adjacent to a change in luminance. High-quality pictures have been encoded having first-order entropies in the range 0.8 to 2.0 bits per picture element."
"In this paper Shannon's model of a communication system is extended to allow for the influence of the human viewer on the encoding and decoding processes. The extended model is shown to represent actual visual systems more realistically and to lead to the design of viewer-oriented codes which maximize the fidelity of transmission. Systematic procedures for the calculation of these codes are suggested, with practical examples."
"The ability of a dictionary encoder to reduce the redundancy of printed English text is evaluated by simulation on a general-purpose digital computer. The dictionary encoder matches segments of the input text to entries of a stored dictionary which contains frequently occurring sequences of letters. The text is thus defined as the succession of code designations corresponding to the selected dictionary entries. Since, for a normal piece of text, fewer binary digits are needed to specify the code designations than the text itself, the encoding produces a compressed equivalent of the original input. In addition to evaluating encoder performance the simulator also collects language statistics which are used for optimization of the encoder logic and the dictionary entries. For a broad type of English language text (news dispatches prepared for newspaper publication) the number of binary digits required to represent a piece of text can be reduced by 50 percent when using a 1000-entry dictionary. While a better compression than 50 percent is theoretically possible it may be difficult to realize, but a compression of the input text to 60 to 70 percent of its original size appears to be easily realizable with a small dictionary."
"If s(t) is a real, band-limited signal, the corresponding analytic signal is defined as s(t)+js^(t), where s^(t) is the Hilbert transform of s(t). For signals whose spectral width is due primarily to large-index frequency modulation, the \"square-rooted\" signal, defined as s½(t) = Re [s(t) + js^(t)]½, has approximately only half the bandwidth of s(t). A case of practical interest of a signal having approximately this property is a speech signal filtered to remove all but one formant. In such a case, a close replica of the original signal can be recovered by squaring the analytic signal corresponding to a band-limited version s~½(t) of s½(t): s(t) ≈ Re [s~½(t) + js~½(t)]2. Application of these two processes to the transmission of speech signals over channels of reduced bandwidth is described. Results of computer simulation for a 2-to-1 bandwidth compression are encouraging and suggest that even higher compression factors, using higher roots of the analytic signal, may be feasible."
"The letter describes a new type of extremely compact latching switchable ferrite junction circulator that is well suited for application requiring fast (approximately two microseconds), low-energy (tens of microjoules in the microwave region) switching. The letter presents results of an approximate theory and initial experimental data."
"Power spectrum and band speading of a recorded sinewave due to random flutter is analyzed for the general case, in contrast to a previous correspondence in which a rectangular flutter spectrum was assumed. Results are expressed in terms of mean-square flutter and time-base-error, which can be determined readily with proper instrumentationn."
"Conventional steady-state nodal analysis may lead to inaccurate answers if some admittances in the network are very much greater than others. It is shown that this inaccuracy can be avoided by pivotal condensation of the indefinite (instead of the usual definite) admittance matrix."
"This letter deals with the problem of calculating the cutoff frequencies of hollow piped waveguides of regular polygonal cross section. By conformally transforming the given cross section onto a unit circle, the boundary conditions can be identically satisfied; however, the transformed partial differential equation must be solved by approximate procedures. The results are considered excellent, demonstrating remarkable agreement with the exact values in the case of square and circular cross sections. Only TM modes are considered in the present study; TE modes can be treated in a similar manner."
"The bias and gain stabilized integrated linear IGFET circuit is considered. An IGFET is used as a load element in the reactance mode. The experimental result shows that the bias point moves only 0.15 volt over the temperature range from 3°C to 100°C."
"An expression for current gain applicable to both homogeneous and graded base transistors in a radiation environment is developed. Using this development, it is shown that damage constant can be accurately determined for both homogeneous and graded base transistors, with identical experimental procedures and design equations."
"The Booton technique of replacing a nonlinear element in a feedback control system by an equivalent gain is widely accepted. In this letter, the use of a criterion for choosing the equivalent gain which is different from that proposed by Booton is suggested and discussed."
"Tellurium thin-film triodes were formed on quartz substrates which exhibited gain-bandwidth-products up to 170 MHz. Gain-bandwidth-products of 50 MHz and one-watt dissipation capabilities were exhibited by tellurium TFT's formed on sapphire substrates."
"Using 35-GHz CW radiation, it is shown that microwave optical field distribution patterns such as focal areas and other diffraction phenomena can readily be visulized by means of Czerny's infrared thermo-sensitive transducer method (Evaporography). Even at the present state of the art, some typical thermographic displays permit comparison of actual field patterns with those that were theoreticlly predicted."
"The aliasing error in the reconstructed frequency domain function, referred to as the foldover error, is well known. Estimates of the corresponding error in the reconstructed time domain function are apparently rarer. An upper bound on this error is derived; it depends only on that portion of the spectrum for which the frequency is larger than half the sampling frequency. Comparison with a recent bound presented by Papoulis shows the present bound to be more useful for some cases."
"Step-recovery diodes allow high-order frequency multiplication without the use of idler circuits. Good filtering is essential in selecting the required harmonic; for certain circuit configurations, however, the time-varying impedance of the diode can seriously affect the filter circuit. Experimental results with two different circuit arrangements illustrate this effect."
"Measurments of the peak and average output power of a 337-micron cyanide laser are reported. The tests served to indicate the usefulness at this high frequency of available oversize waveguide instrumentation-- a room-temperature average-power measurig bolometer, a liquid helium-cooled InSb detector-mixer and a double-prism attenuator."
"Electromagnetic wave problems in anisotropic and inhomogeneous media can be solved by defining scalar and vector potentials. By means of a relation between the scalar and the vector potentials different from the one used by Nisbet, a simpler vector potential wave equation is obtained. Polarizable and magnetizable type of media are considered."
"This letter reports an experimental investigation in which the use of acoustical coupling between thickness-shear resonators to obtain a monolithic crystal filter with bandpass characteristics is extended to the VHF region and overtone operation. Attenuation curves for a 112-MHz fifth-overtone filter with a bandwidth of 14 kHz are given, showing good stopband performance over the 10 to 300 MHz range of measurement."
"The use of a horn radiator with sector-shaped radiation pattern rednces the reaction of a rotation-symmetrical parabolic reflector to less than one quarter of the reaction with conventional horn radiators. No vertex plate is necessary."
"An enlarged internal laser beam was used to project high-contrast images generated on a photochromic plate positioned within a laser cavity. An opaque image on the plate caused the coherent light passing through it to be diffracted. A flat, oblique apertured mirror reflected this diffracted light out of the cavity onto a screen."
"Oscillations produced with p+-n-n+silicon avalanche diodes at high current densities and low transit angles are attributed to measured small-signal negative conductances These are interpreted by theoretical studies including specific space-charge effects due to the high carrier densities occurring in this mode of operation."
"The reciprocity theorem of electromagnetism is not generally true for ionospheric propagation paths, and this has been demonstrated from time to time since the earliest days of HF radio. In the past ten years, particularly, significant progress in understanding the characteristics of HF nonreciprocity has been made by various workers who have studied the two-way fading of pulsed signals propagated by single ionospheric paths. Meadows [1956] and Balser, Smith, and Warren [1958] observed correlated two-way fading of E and F layer signals but on other occasions the two-way fading was uncorrelated. Jull ind Pettersen [1964] found the two-way fading of F layer signals transmitted between horizontal antennas was almost inversely correlated when both ordinary o and extraordinary e waves were present in the signal. When only one wave was present in the signal, the two-way fading was correlated. These latter results were interpreted on the basis of a recent ray theory of reciprocity [1964]. This letter presents evidence to show that ray theory can also account for the nonreciprocal characteristics of a 1500 km path between Atlanta, Ga. (33'45'N., 84O, 3O'W), and Ipswich, Mass. (42\" 45'N., 70\" 45'W.)."
"Pulse propagation on nonlinear transmission lines is studied by phase-plane analysis. It is concluded that RGC lines (where G is a single-valued function of the voltage across its terminals, and R, C are linear) cannot support the propagation of dynamic steady-state pulses."
"PPL acquisition from an initial frequency offset is affected by the rate of change of the frequency being acquired. The relationships between the rate of change of frequency and the pull-in range and pull-in time are determined. A \"two-speed\" PPL is presented which has superior acquisition performance."
"A depletion-mode thin-film transistor is presented in which magnesium fluoride is used as the insulating layer material. The proposed application for linear integrated circuits is based upon the suitably large drain current under no-gate bias and the good linearity of the amplification characteristics."
"The causes of degradation in the speech channels of multi-channel telephony FM signals, when several such signals are amplified in a common amplifier (e.g., in a multiple-access communications satellite), are briefly considered. It is shown how previous results on interference between FM systems can be readily applied to this problem."
"Wave propagation in extrinsic semiconductors is considered, with emphasis on the dynamic variation of the carrier temperature. An expression for the RF conductivity is given, and propagation of waves in nonpiezoelectric and piezoelectric semiconductors is discussed."
"Experimental results for a Gunn diode operated in the \"LSA\" mode of operation at X-band frequencies are reported. Powers as high as 33 watts have been obtained. Theoretical limits in both power and frequency for this mode of operation are also discussed."
"Efficiencies as high as 7.8 percent yielding 380 mW at 6.8 GHz and output powers up to 1.3 watts at 6.5 GHz (3.6 percent efficiency) have been observed in GaAs p-n junction avalanche diodes. Diode diameters ranged from 2.5 to 7.5 mils with best efficiencies occurring in the range from 2.5 to 4.2 mils, for the circuit used."
"A technique is described for mapping remote emitters of radiation, based on optical correlation of the signals received by a multilobed, side-looking receiving pattern in constant-velocity, straight-line motion. An \"ambiguity function,\" formally identical to that of radar theory, governs system performance."
"A class of frequency multiplier circuit configurations which utilize an arbitrary number of n of identical varactors to handle n times the power of a single diode at the same efficiency is described."
"It is shown how the variable grounded gyrators now becoming available in integrated-circuit form can be used in conjunction with transistors and capacitors to obtain oscillators, modulators, and mixers."
"W. R. Crowther and C. Rader have found an efficient linear encoding for vocoder chanels which uses the Hadamard matrix. Minimization of expected mean square error leads to the conjecture that the Hadamard matrix diagonalizes the covariance matrix of the logarithm of 16 vocoder channels. The resulting covariance matrix has been computed for different choices of characteristic values."
"The proposed method for the determination of all the four-pole h-parameters of a transistor is based on the linear relationship that exists between the different terminal voltages of a transistor amplifier circuit. No assumption regarding the open-circuit input or the short-circuit output is required."
"The eikonal equation as derived by Sommerfeld and Runge has been extended to include the case of moving media under the condition where (v/c) ≪ 1 (v is the velocity of the medium, c is the speed of light in vacuum). Using the Hamilton Jacobi formalism, the equivalent system of linear equations was determined which can be used for ray tracing. An exmple of a moving medium where the index of refraction is a function of one of the coordinates has been considered."
"Series-connected silicon varactors are used in a frequency tripler to obtain over 12 W at 1.5 GHz with a conversion efficiency of 75 percent."
"Stability of satellites subjected to persistent perturbations is examined using Malkin's theorem. Expressions are presented for distrubing torqnes about all three spacecraft axes due to light pressure. Malkin's theorem is shown to be a valuable design tool for satellite attitude control."
"In this letter a one-transistor all-pass network is analyzed and compared with A. I. Larky's two-transistor network."
"Linear microwave amplifiers with continuous power outputs of 100 mW have been constructed utilizing the frequency-independent negative conductance observed externally in Gunn oscillators (n0ċ L > 1012cm-2). The optimum values for carrier concentration n0and sample length L are discussed together with measured bandwidths and noise figures."
"A previous work showed how to apply D'Alembert's method in solving two-coupled first-order ordinary differential equations with variable coefficients. As an extension of it, this letter generalizes the number of coupled differential equations from two to any finite integer."
"The optical configuration allowing most efficient transmission of laser beams over long distances has been determined from the computer calculations described, which give the radiation pattern and received intensity of arbitrarily truncated Gaussian aperture distributions. Some representative radiation patterns and received intensity vs. beam truncation are plotted."
"The purpose of this letter is to demonstrate a method of suppressing inband harmonics to a level 90 dB below the desired signal. In particular, the design of a varactor diode, a varactor diode holder, and a microwave circuit, is described."
"Lithium tantalate, a clear single crystal material that is both ferroelectric and piezoelectric, has been found to have a low temperature coefficient of frequency and an electromechanical coupling factor of 0.50 when x-cut plates are driven piezoelectrically in thickness shear."
"The achievement of 2.7 watts of CW power at 13.8 GHz with 10.2 percent efficiency is reported for an abrupt-junction p-n silicon avalanche transit time oscillator. Good efficiency requires a high current density without excessive diode temperature. The use of diamond heat sinks and arrays of small area junctions are suggested."
"An advanced differential equation for phase angle of output voltage, when an unmodulated or modulated oscillator is locked to a modulated or unmodulated external driving signal, respectively, is solved by analog computer. Suppression of the modulation rate is verified experimentally and applied to noise reduction of an avalanche oscillator."
"A new operator Q is introduced for use in the representation of the ideal transformer by means of topological graphs. This operator obviates the need for a limiting process in analysis and enables matrices which would normally be singular to have nonzero determinants."
"The spectrum produced by the deviation of an FM carrier by a single unipolar pulse is discussed. Computed power spectrums for a rectangular and a half-sine pulse are given from which the spectrums of other unipolar pulses may be inferred."
"Measurements of the circuit Q of a self-resonant coil of niobium stannide, a Type II superconductor, have been made at radio frequencies (26.8 MHz). Unloaded Q's of 3.7 million at 4.2°K, and near 450 000 up to 16.2°K, were obtained. The above values of Q were limited by dielectric and radiation loss, rather than by the superconductor."
"Transistor negative feedback, between stages of a 3-tunnel diode ring, permits the generation of pulses for a 3-phase clocking system. The clock rate is dependent on the transistor switching speed which may be varied by conventional means. A circuit is shown for a 67-MHz clock, 200- MHz phase rate."
"This letter presents an extension of the Booton equivalent gain method to include a multiplier in a closed-loop system with random inputs. An equation is derived for the equivalent gain which minimizes the mean-squared-error between the output of the multiplier and a linear gain replacing the multiplier in one of the signal paths. A criterion is also suggested by which the validity of the approximation may be established for any particular case."
"This letter describes some characteristics of spontaneous oscillations of transistors in particular avalanche conditions. An interesting performance of this behavior is the high speed and power of base signal, a useful equivalent circuit, and the repetition frequency dependence of oscillations on external components and operating point are given."
"The described C-band traveling-wave maser utilizes metallized rubies. The slow-wave structure is directly photo-etched on ruby. Among the advantages of this technology are the reduced size and the easy realization of small pitches, resulting in high slowing factors."
"The power output pulse at 119 µ in a water vapor laser was observed for discharge current durations up to 6 µs. Laser action did not occur until the end of the discharge current pulse, indicating that laser action is inhibited during the discharge for the pulse lengths and currents used."
"Parametrically excited contour modes of vibration were discovered in a rectangular AT-cut quartz plate. These modes of vibration were found to satisfy the relationship f0= f1+ f2where f0is the driving frequency at the principal thickness-shear mode, and f1and f2are the vibration frequencies of two contour modes."
"Experimental results on large-signal amplification obtained from epitaxial silicon p-n junctions biased into avalanche are described. It was found that the diodes under investigation are capable of delivering stable power outputs of 30 to 40 mW CW with 10 to 15-dB power gain. The output equals approximately that of an oscillating device under the same dc operating conditions."
"The theoretical treatment of a system composed of a varactor and a negative conductance element is presented, taking the nonlinearity of the negative conductance into account. An example is given, using a tunnel diode as the negative conductance."
"By using a linear transformation matrix consisting of only ± 1's prior to encoding a set of dependent signals a substantial improvement in encoding efficiency can be obtained in many interesting cases."
"Diamessis proposed a new method for evaluating the parameters of a nonlinear system by successive integration with different upper limits of time. In this letter, a different approach is taken which makes use of the invalidity of the superposition property of the nonlinear system by varying the amplitudes of the input function."
"This letter gives efficiency and power handling capacities of frequency doublers and up-converters for negative values of γ where S(V) = V1/γ. It is shown that negative values of γ yield greater efficiencies than varactors with γ = 1/2, 1/3, and 0 which are commonly used."
"A general distributed-constants N-port hybrid network is described which for N = 2 coincides with the rat-race hybrid ring. Its adoption is proposed for parallel connection of coherent signal sources when their number is not a power of 2."
"A special three-port which may be constructed in integratable form from transistors and resistors is defined. Its use in the realization of integratable ideal transformers (which may also be active) with dc response is demonstrated, and the circuit diagram and performance of an experimental model is given."
"This letter points out that phase distortion can arise in linear bandpass networks which have linear phase characteristics within the pass-band. In particular, it is shown that even in the case of an ideal bandpass filter having a linear phase response within its passband, signals bandlimited to the filter bandwidth can undergo a distortion upon transmission through such a network if the phase function of the filter does not pass through the zero frequency point of the frequency axis. This type of phase distortion is termed intercept distortion."
"Flat single crystal films of CdS are grown by sublimation. Negative resistance and the switching phenomenon accompanied by breakdown are observed. Thickness dependences of the breakdown and the sustaining voltage are analyzed. The breakdown field is 1.5 × 105V/cm."
"The expression for Pn-1 above equation (10) on page 1988 of the above-named letter is corrected."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"Provides an overview of the technical articles and features presented in this issue."
"Network methods are by no means limited to lumped systems. Once the ports of a generalized physical structure are defined by use of a modal decomposition of signals, the structure can be analyzed using network techniques which extend beyond the domain of RLC systems and rational network functions. If the physical system is observed as a black box at its ports and various physical time-domain postulates such as linearity, energy, and power conservation theorems are applied in network terms, a variety of realizability relations are obtained for linear, passive, time-invariant structures. For example, one is led to generalizations of bounded real and positive real functions for distributed systems. The network technique also results in a number of interesting theorems for lossless structures such as a generalization of Foster's reactance theorem, and restrictions on minimum phase realizability, and on signal transmission and group delay in distrributed, lossless networks. These results apply in structures containing gyrotropic, dispersive media as well as in the reciprocal, nondispersive case."
"The overall performance characteristics of ground-level millimeter-wave links are analyzed. Transmission reliability is examined on the basis of statistical data on pertinent meteorological variables and as a function of various link design parameters. Link systems operating under climatic conditions roughly characteristic of those prevailing along the mid-Atlantic coast of the United States are found to he limited most severely by attenuation due to rainfall. For a required degree of transmission reliability, trade-offs between the basic link design parameters are seen to lead to a certain range of hop distance and a corresponding range of transmitter power level. Detrimental effects due to reflection and diffraction by the terrain may in most cases be essentially avoided for short and medium hop distances. The discussion also includes considerations on diversity operation for increased transmission reliability and a brief comparison of the advantages of millimeter waves over both microwaves and optical wavelengths for links with short and medium hop lengths. Experimental work is reported on point-to-point transmission at 90.5 GHz (or 3.3 mm wavelength) carried out over a period of more than one year. Operation with antennas exposed to precipitation and wind has been found feasible. Measured transmission losses under a wide range of weather conditions were found to stay well within the limits predicted. The need for more research on short-term signal fluctuations (\"scintillations\") and propagation-time fluctuations is pointed out. The theoretical and experimental results have established a considerable degree of confidence in the feasibility of millimeter-wave link systems with short to medium hop distances and low power requirements."
"Consideration is given to the realization of maximally flat amplitude responses of overall fractional bandwidths ranging from 30 to 150 percent, using mutually coupled double-tuned networks as coupling elements. No restriction on the Q of the coupled circuits has been imposed and design curves for determining the network parameters for any value of primary Q are included. These have been computed from a knowledge of the necessary pole distribution for the appropriate degree of flatness and bandwidth of the overall response. The effect of reducing the primary Q of a coupling network is discussed. The material presented is applicable to transitionally coupled double-tuned networks and maximally flat pairs, but the method can be extended to more general cases."
"By using Shannon's sampling formula, the problem of the detection of a deterministic signal in white Gaussian noise, by means of an energy-measuring device, reduces to the consideration of the sum of the squares of statistically independent Gaussian variates. When the signal is absent, the decision statistic has a central chi-square distribution with the number of degrees of freedom equal to twice the time-bandwidth product of the input. When the signal is present, the decision statistic has a noncentral chi-square distribution with the same number of degrees of freedom and a noncentrality parameter λ equal to the ratio of signal energy to two-sided noise spectral density. Since the noncentral chi-square distribution has not been tabulated extensively enough for our purpose, an approximate form was used. This form replaces the noncentral chi-square with a modified chi-square whose degrees of freedom and threshold are determined by the noncentrality parameter and the previous degrees of freedom. Sets of receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curves are drawn for several time-bandwidth products, as well as an extended nomogram of the chi-square cumulative probability which can be used for rapid calculation of false alarm and detection probabilities. Related work in energy detection by J. I. Marcum and E. L Kaplan is discussed."
"The small-signal theory of the parametric coupling of two waves in the presence of attenuation is summarized. The example chosen to illustrate the effects of losses on parametric coupling is two transmission lines coupled by a temporally and spatially varying capacitance. Included are analyses of contra- and co-flow parametric coupling, i.e., group velocities of the waves in the opposite and the same directions, respectively, with the pumping frequency either the sum or difference of the frequencies of the two waves. Contra-flow coupling with sum frequency pmnping is discussed in detail and it is found that the solutions for the mode amplitudes with loss are exponential, while without losses they are sinusoidal."
"As an application of high-field, high-current superconductors we sketch the design of a power transmission line to carry 100 GW (1011watts) of direct current over a distance of 1000 km. (It is interesting to note that the present peak power generating capacity of the United States is approximately 200 GW, or just twice the capacity of the proposed line.) Such a line, in contrast to one made of ordinary metal, would dissipate none of the power transmitted through it, although it is necessary to tap power from the line for refrigeration. The consequences of negligible transmission loss are substantial: power transmission would be more economical than the present practice of shipping coal to the region in which electricity is generated and consumed; generating-plant site selection could be made almost entirely on economic considerations; at the same time, thermal and air-pollution problems could be minimized; novel power sources could be considered. The power line would be made of Nb3Sn and would be refrigerated to 4°K. The power must be transmitted as direct current, rather than as alternating current, because the very large (comparatively) alternating-current losses would require excessive refrigeration capacity. Specifically, we shall discuss a line at 200 kV carrying 0.5 × 106A. The investment in the line will be approximately $806 million, or $8.06/kW. Of this, some $6.06/kW is line cost, the remainder being converter cost, which, of course, is the same for an ordinary dc line. In comparison with the shipping of coal, the investment cost would be repaid in ten months. We have investigated in some detail the problems of refrigeration along the line, including those of heat leak through the wires which deliver power to customers at room temperature. The efficiency of the line is greater than 99.9 percent (power transmitted less the power drawn off to run refrigeration equipment, all divided by transmitted power). While the technical discussion is probably correct, the cost figures do not include engineering expeditures and do not consider in detail the costs involved in providing the redundancy and safety factors for, say, a failure rate of one per ten years with a time of a few seconds to restore power. This is not an engineering study but rather a preliminary exploration of feasibility. Provided satisfactory superconducting cable of the nature described can be developed, the use of superconducting lines for power transmission appears feasible. Whether it is necessary or desirable is another matter entirely."
"Beam-intensity modulation based on varying the power of the hydrogen RF-discharge was used in an automatic tuning system. Two hydrogen masers were tuned automatically and simultaneously. Their beat frequency was measured to have a long-term stability of 3 × 10-13."
"Two grounded, inverting amplifiers, interconnected by resistors and capacitors, can synthesize an open-circuit voltage gain equal to any ratio of real polynomials in the complex frequency variable. The amplifiers can have finite gains (greater than unity), finite input conductances, and finite output resistances."
"Scattering matrix problems requiring complex normalization can be converted to real normalization problems. This letter shows how this may be accomplished by defining a new port voltage applicable to a simple modification of the original network being considered."
"It is shown that a particular type of traditor, i.e., a three-port network element derived from the Lagrangian L = Aq1q2q3, where qkdenotes the charge driven through port number k, can be realized by idealization of a circuit comprising two Hall plates situated in the magnetic fields of two driving coils, and two gyrators."
"A relation is described which, when satisfied by a set of orthonormal functions, is sufficient to assure that the spectral coefficients of a system can be obtained in a simple way from the spectral coefficients of the input and output signals."
"The time dependence of the coherent emission wavelength shift of GaAs1-xPxlaser diodes during a flat-topped, 240 ns current pulse (20 ns rise time) was measured and found to agree reasonably well with calculations based on a simple thermal model of the diode which gives a square root of time dependence."
"Means of reducing undesired modes on axial-mode helical anteanas are presented. Using tapered feeds and tapered terminations, the radiation properties and impedance behavior of helical antennas may be substantially improved."
"An axial mode helix in a conical horn produces a circularly polarized pencil beam of low sidelobe level over a 2-to-1 bandwidth. The gain of the combination or \"helicone\" is four times that of a simple helix of the same length and the sidelobes are 15 to 20 dB lower."
"Sources of error in present methods of measuring circuit delay are described, along with a new technique which is particularly well suited to sub-nanosecond measurements. This technique measures the insertion delay of the circuit in a transmission system, has a time resolution of less than 10 picoseconds, and is directly calibrated in terms of length and the speed of light."
"The autocorrelation function for the output signal of a phase-modulated oscillator is derived directly, without the use of series expansions. The modulation characteristic of the oscillator contains a quadratic non-linearity and the modulating signal is assumed to be a stationary Gaussian process."
"A wideband electrically controllable resistive attenuator using a distributed MOS transistor is described. Bandwidth and attenuation for lumped and distributed structures are compared and a quality factor is defined. Some exmples of application for controlling the gain of amplifiers are also given."
"An anomalous shift in the gate threshold voltage of high-transconductance p-channel MOSFET's has been observed during exposure to space-like radiation of 2 × 1012electrons/cm2that is two and one half to three times its saturation value at 2 × 1014electrons/cm2and is five to seven times its pre-irradiation value."
"In this letter it is proven in a simple manner, without using results from electrical networks, that the basic loop matrix of a connected graph is unimodular. This result is established by using several properties of loop matrices in the theory of linear graphs and basic results from linear algebra."
"A proposed temperature sensor is described which consists of a pyroelectric material on the gate of an MOS transistor. Analysis of the device shows a sensitivity of 6.6 × 10-9°C is possible."
"The third-order elastic constants of crystalline quartz are used to calculate the stress dependence of the frequency of quartz oscillator plates."
"A description is given of meteorological factors associated with a severe nocturnal signal strength depression on 4 GHz radio paths, over a coastal plain in South Australia. It is suggested that the fading was caused by a subrefractive layer, formed when a cold front moved slowly over a region where a radiation inversion existed."
"Radio propagation measurements at 4 GHz over two paths on a coastal plain in South Australia have shown occasional periods of prolonged and very severe signal strength depression. The two paths are end-to-end and each about 27 miles long, with effective transmitting and receiving aerial heights of 245 feet. The depression occurs earlier, and more severely, on the west path."
"A theory is outlined for propagation of electromagnetic waves over a conducting half-space which is coated by a thin inhomogeneous layer. The source is a vertical electric dipole. An asymptotic development indicates that the conventional ground wave formulas are applicable if the surface impedance parameter is defined in a more general manner. An exampie indicates that a lossy half-space with a nonabrupt boundary has effects akin to a dielectric-coated homogeneous half-space."
"The extension of holographic techniques to radio frequencies offers new possibilities. The recording can be done by scanning an area with a probe. The reference wave can be replaced by a signal whose phase is varied with the probe position according to some program. Thus, \"slow\" reference waves (k > k0) can be simulated. Complex modulation schemes can also be used. A product detector can multiply the probe and the reference signal together and the recorded product can be used in the same manner as an intensity hologram. With two such \"correlators,\" the probe signal can be obtained in phase and magnitude. Optical reconstruction can be done from this information."
"The interaction of a conducting ring with an axially symmetric magnetic field is considered theoretically in order to derive the induced voltage expression. The results are suitable for experimental applications and may be extended to disks and slugs by computer integration."
"Tables are presented which make possible quick approximation of a curve by a series of Chebyshev polynomials: f(x) ≈ a0/2 Σi = 1naiTi(x); nmax= 10 The given curve is replaced by linear pieces between 21 equidistant points in the interval 〈- 1; + 1〉. The nth coefficient is computed as an= Σ Kn,jkj+ Σ Qn,jqjwhere Kn,j, Qn,jare constants of the tables and ki, qjare constants of the linear piece y = kjx + qjin the jth interval."
"An extension of a recently published method for finding the inverse z-transform is presented. It is predicted that this easy-to-use extension will supersede the usual technique of z-transform inversion by long division."
"The problem of finding power and impedance in a lossless tuned varactor tripler is considered when the charge waveform varies between reverse breakdown and a prescribed minimum in the forward conduction region. A diode model is assumed for which the diode elastance is zero in the forward conduction region."
"Two simple theorems for generalizing any known nonuniform transmission line problem are stated and proved. The matrix parameters of the generalized lines have been shown to be simply related to those of the original line. These theorems should be useful in other areas also, such as in acoustics."
"An extension to Yanagisawa's active synthesis is given which stresses the importance of tunability. The approach is to use multiple inputs, each one differing from the other by a constant. Using this approach, controllability of the zeros of transmission is achieved without changing the values of the elements in the synthesized network, and precorrection for the internal resistance of the voltage source is possible in most cases."
"A recent letter by Chawla and Unz (ibid., Vol. 54, pp. 1103-1105, Aug. 1966) has suggested that the problems in electromagnetic theory can be solved by two different models:' a) polarization current mode (PCM), b) convection current mode (CCM). In the letter, they remarked equivalence between these two models and, by CCM, they obtained the formal solution to the electric field in a moving anisotropic plasma. The purpose of this letter is to point out that, although both PCM and CCM give the same answer as far as the dispersion relation is concerned as stated by Tai (1965), Poynting vectors obtained by PCM and CCM are entirely different from each other. Thus, it is noted that the problems of radiation in moving media should be carefully formulated."
"The paper deals with the frequency stability of a class of oscillators with two feedback paths, one containing a null network representable by a transfer function K/(1 - jb/u), and the other a frequency independent attenuator of gain δ. The latter provides the finite feedback voltage necessary to maintain oscillations at the null frequency and usually incorporates nonlinear thermal dements such as lamps or thermistors for amplitude stabilization. Such oscillators are important and interesting because 1) the overall feedback can be arranged to be degenerative at practically all but the oscillating frequency with consequent improvement in waveform, and 2) their frequency stability, which can be shown to depend inversely on δ and hence directly on the gain of the maintaining amplifier, can be made quite high. A general theory for the frequency stability of these oscillator circuits is developed and it is shown that the figure of merit of a particular null network for oscillator applications is its \"sensitivity factor\": -K/b. A number of illustrative examples show how the theory can be applied to determine the frequency stability of a wide variety of such circuits and for the synthesis of the optimum configuration of any particular null network for oscillator applications."
"A linear system utilizing a noiseless feedback channel is shown to achieve the rate-distortion bound on performance. The result follows from the previous study of linearized phase-locked loop models."
"Experimental results are given for bulk n-GaAs diodes when used as a two-state memory element and as a logic gate. An additional contact near the cathode improves the triggering sensitivity and isolates the input from the output. Bulk devices will ultimately operate at higher speeds than junction devices."
"The recently reported negative derivative with respect to collector current of the collector capacitance of an integrated-circuit transistor can be explained by the effect of free charge carriers in the collector depletion layer. The current-capacitance relationship is expressed for both diffused-and alloyed-collector transistors."
"Silicon avalanche diodes with a pnn+mesa structure were made according to suitably chosen design parameters, and carefully fabricated to meet stringent pedormance specifications. Operating under pulse conditions with a duty factor of approximately 10-3, efficiencies as high as 25 percent, and power outputs up to 435 watts at 425 megahertz, were achieved."
"Two probability density functions (pdfs) for the power from a Rayleigh target are compared empirically. Swerling's one-dominant pdf is shown to be approximately valid for a unit dominant-to-background scatterer power ratio. The power form of the Rice pdf is used to define the input signal fluctuations in the calculation of detection probability."
"Microwave field distributions were measured when a thin plate of n-InSb was placed vertically at the center of a K-band waveguide, and also when the waveguide was filled with n-InSb. The field distributions were asymmetrically deformed in the applied magnetic fields, and the propagation properties were demonstrated to be nonreciprocal."
"The described cryogenic memory cell is selected by currents on three drive lines. With respect to the cell driven by two lines the amplitude of the select pulses is reduced and the stored magnetic flux degradation is decreased. This selection offers a considerable increase of the operating range."
"Lasers made with various diffusion schedules are compared and a two-step diffusion process is described which is used in the fabrication of high power (approaching 3 watts CW), at 77°K, high efficiency (15 percent) lasers."
"A new device which accomplishes frequency-selective limiting through parallel pumping of subharmonic magnetoelastic waves in YIG is introduced. In addition, the general requirements for any frequency-selective parametric limiter are discussed and shown to be applicable to the magnetoelastic limiter as well as the more conventional spin wave limiter (YIG or ferrite limiter). These general requirements may now be used as guides for developing other frequency-selective parametric limiters."
"It is shown that for a random function of two or three dimensions and the case where statistical properties are isotropic in space, the Wiener-Khintchine theorem takes on the form of a Fourier-Bessel transform instead of a one-dimensional Fourier transform."
"The probability of simultaneous fading on two vertically separated receiving antennas is estimated from a Rayleigh model for strongly correlated signals, with the effects of the terrain included."
"A novel technique for determining the plane-wave shielding effectiveness of thin films utilizing a TEM mode structure has been previously described. This letter presents some of the results obtained. In addition, note is made of an error which existed in the original measurement setup and its effect on the results is discussed."
"This letter comments on discrepancies among the theoretical results reported by several groups investigating extensions to the theory of trapping in AT-cut quartz resonators."
"A digital-computer algorithm is described for synthesizing Fourier transform holograms to be used as spatial frequency filters. The spatial frequency content of the hologram is reduced over that obtained by the conventional off-axis method. Experimental results are shown where a \"TI\" pattern is reconstructed. An optical analog is also described."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"Provides an overview of the technical articles and features presented in this issue."
"Recent research has produced a number of frequency-domain stability criteria applicable to linear systems having nonlinear and/or time-varying feedback. One of the more interesting of these stability criteria is the so-called Circle Criterion which represents a generalization of the familiar result of Nyquist. The present paper provides a basis for generating instability counterparts of most of the available frequency-domain stability criteria. The procedure is described in detail for the Circle Criterion. Once the general pattern is established it becomes a simple matter to generate instability counterparts of other similar stability criteria. Several worked examples are included to illustrate the theory. The paper has been written with both the general reader and the specialist in mind; it is hoped that both will find something of interest."
"Much of the theoretical research on reentry blackout is in a format difficult for the communications design engineer to use in his system analysis. This paper derives simplified equations for the average sheath power loss that may be added (in dB) to the usual space loss to obtain an approximate total propagation loss. The plasma and sheath properties are discussed in detail but largely without supporting mathematics, in order to give the design engineer a better understanding of the overall problem. For the same reason and to provide insight into the final results, the average radiated power is found, using both intuitive and rigorous techniques. Several graphs of plasma properties are included in the development as an aid to numerical computations, and results are compared with the work of other authors."
"An analysis is presented of the decorrelation effects of target velocity and acceleration on high-gain, wideband linear FM correlation sonars that match the received signal against a family of velocity reference functions, each of which is a different time-compressed or -expanded replica of the transmitted signal. Such sonars are shown to have velocity (i.e., Doppler) and acceleration tolerances far different from that predicted by narrowband radar theory. Unlike the narrowband case, the wideband velocity tolerance may be quite small and is approximately independent of the carrier frequency and inversely proportional to the time-bandwidth product (TW). Narrowband radar-type calculations of velocity tolerance can give erroneous results far in excess of the true value. This is because the narrowband velocity tolerance is derived entirely on the basis of temporal overlap loss, whereas the actual tolerance depends primarily on the slope difference between the frequency-time sweeps of the received and reference signals. High acceleration tolerance, without separate acceleration processing channels, can be achieved by cross-correlating the acceleration return with a \"best match\" velocity reference function. The resultant wideband acceleration tolerance is approximately inversely proportional to WT2and better than the narrowband tolerance by a factor of 12 Q (Q = carrier frequency/bandwidth). This improvement arises because the wideband reference functions are able to partially compensate for the nonlinearity imparted to the transmitted frequency-time sweep by an accelerating target, whereas such compensation is not possible in narrowband systems employing carrier-shifted reference functions."
"On-line circuit design involves interaction between a designer who initiates circuit modifications on the basis of circuit performance, and a digital computer which calculates the performance resulting from such modifications. Besides network analysis, the flexibility of an on-line utility makes possible a variety of other services such as on-line definition and modelling of new circuit elements, while graphical input and display devices facilitate man-machine communication, requiring no programming knowledge on the part of the user. Compared to conventional design or batch-computer design, the on-line approach includes advantages such as savings in design time and cost, and progressive accumulation of diverse and accurate knowledge about expected circuit behavior, before actual construction is undertaken. This paper discusses a family of on-line nonlinear circuit-design systems known as CIRCAL, in terms of features visible to a user, internal structure, supporting theory, experience, and future plans."
"The equivalent circuit model is developed in this series of papers and applied to solid-state junction devices. In this paper, the exact equivalent circuit of a single energy level defect center in a semiconductor is developed based on the Shockley-Read-Hall model. It is then applied to the calculation of the steady-state lifetimes of electrons and holes and to the transient decay time constants. The transient decay time constants are obtained for arbitrary nonequilibrium, but steady-state, conditions and are presented as a function of the steady-state electron and hole concentrations by means of contour maps. Simple examples and gold in silicon are used for the construction of these maps. The general criteria of trapping, recombination, and generation are also obtained using the single energy level defect center model which divides the carrier concentration plane log10N versus log10P into four quadrants centered at the equality carrier concentrations p*and n*. At this equality point, the four rates of electron or hole capture or emission at the defect center are equal and the four quadrants represent regions where recombination, generation, electron trapping, or hole trapping dominates."
"In this paper, the equivalent circuit of a defect center with multiple energy levels in a semiconductor is formulated and applied to the calculation of the characteristic time constants of the multiple energy level system. Detailed numerical example of gold-doped silicon is given, including the constant characteristic time constant contour maps. The steady-state charge distribution ratio RN= Ns+1/Ns(s = charge state of the center) and recombination rate ratio RR(s) = RSS(s = ½)/(RSS(s-½) diagrams are developed and applied to the numerical calculations of the steady-state recombination and generation rate of electrons and holes in gold-doped silicon."
"This is a discussion of previous letters in the PROCEEDINGS and includes two possible extensions on the formulation of matrix coefficients."
"A new type of MOS field effect transistor has been fabricated utilizing anodically formed valve metal oxide films (AMOS). These anodic oxide films such as hafnium dioxide (HfMOS) offer the advantage of producing high dielectric constant insulators in the channel in order to improve the transconductance (gm) and voltage gain (µA= Cin/Cfb) of the device."
"A configuration is proposed which leads to a digital filter that is less sensitive to parameter quantization than are the standard configurations. A few examples illustrate the differences between the various realizations."
"Experimental results of more than 1-watt pulsed power output at 16 GHz with an efficiency of more than 4 percent are described in avalanching GaAs diodes grown by liquid-phase epitaxy. The high-power capability is attributed largely to the uniformity of the junction."
"CW and pulse measurement distinguish between ion-drift gas pumping effects [1],[2] and other factors affecting laser output as a function of the confining magnetic field for large diameter (> 5 mm) ionized gas lasers. With pulse lengths too short for pumping to occur laser operation optimizes at 400 gauss, whereas in CW operation the optimum magnetic field may be > 2600 gauss (at low pressures)."
"A simple method is described for controlling the surface potential of semiconducting films which are covered with evaporated insulating layers."
"A simple procedure to calculate the transient response given a network function as a ratio of polynomials in the complex frequency is presented. The numerical solution is obtained by a recursive transformation of a vector and does not depend on the computation of the state transition matrix or any other matrix."
"Phase detectors having sawtooth-type transfer characteristics are superior in some respects to those having cosine-type transfer characteristics. However, the superiority exists only for large input signal-noise ratios. It is shown that for small SNR, the sawtooth characteristic degenerates into a cosine characteristic."
"Sharp peaks of microwave emission from high purity, n-type indium antimonide are reported for magnetic fields oriented approximately ±20 degrees and ±160 degrees from the applied electric field, as well as for transverse fields. The former, \"low angle,\" peaks are explained in terms of transverse breakdown associated with a large Hall electric field."
"Data on a microstrip [1] circulator fabricated on an all-garnet substrate is presented. Fabrication involves only evaporation of copper lines, disk, and ground plane on the substrate. The implications for microwave integrated circuits are discussed briefly."
"Downward bias-field pulsing in a magnetoelastic delay line, when the wave packet is purely acoustic, removes the turning points from the sample. Echoes are recovered by subsequent upward pulsing. Continuously adjustable delay to 50 µs at L-band, and room temperature, has been achieved."
"That shape of passband response which causes a perfectly bandlimited low-pass system to have a monotonic step response with minimum rise time, is derived and compared with other systems."
"Results are reported which are of interest in the automatic equalization of telephone lines or other narrow bandwidth channels where data transmission is limited primarily by intersymbol interference. We describe an algorithm for adjusting the tap gains of a tapped delay line equalizer which converges for all channels. The algorithm also adjusts the tap gains to match a changing channel."
"The problem of detecting pulses of unknown amplitude and arrival time from sparse, noisy samples is considered. Several approaches are found to result in the square-law video amplifier, the performance of which is compared graphically with both single-sample detection and clairvoyant matched filtering."
"Observations of the effect of temperature gradients in ultrasonic diffraction experiments with rutile crystals are reported. Means of reducing such effects by choice of crystals with preferred characteristics are discussed."
"Pulsed avalanche diodes have been observed to have multiple modes of operation which are current and time dependent. Oscillations at a given frequency can be delayed 2 µs by proper tuning and current. The initial mode is unstable and is considerably noisier than the delayed mode. Experimental results are given."
"An infrared detector utilizing internal photoemission as a detection mechanism is demonstrated. The detector consists of a metal-semiconductor contact with photoemission taking place over the associated Schottky barrier. Quantum efficiency and bias effects are investigated."
"A theorem concerning the inversion of a linear operator which is expressible as a combination of matrices is proved. Two examples, one in electrodynamics of moving media and the other involving a scaling operator in Lorentz transformation, are given to demonstrate its applications."
"Reflex klystrons exhibit small unwanted frequency changes when amplitude-modulated by a square-wave signal. Data obtained from experimental observations of different klystrons are presented for both repeller and grid modulation, and the causes of such frequency changes are discussed."
"A guarded comparator for the calibration of inductive voltage dividers against a calibrated standard is described. It features the use of a fixed RC network for phase compensations and a minimum of specialized equipment. Accuracy degradation in voltage-ratio determinations is less than ±0.05 parts per million at, typically, 1 kHz."
"Absolute values of the elasto-optic coefficients of YAG were measured by using a photoelastic technique based on the principle of Bragg scattering. Longitudinal acoustic waves with a frequency of 1.57 GHz were used for these measurements."
"It is shown that a relationship exists between the impedance matching at the input and output ports of a reciprocal negative-resistance low-pass amplifier and the sensitivity of its transducer power gain to the variations of the component values. When the negative resistances are more than one, the sensitivity is defined assuming an equal relative variation of their values."
"Controlled pulse generation in Gunn oscillators was achieved by providing current paths outside the active semiconductor material. If the path was floated, pulses of excess current flowed through the cathode when domains passed by the path; if the path was grounded, the excess current was bypassed to the ground and no current pulse appeared."
"Early practice in the use of tapped delay lines for altering the time structure (delay modulation) of waveforms is cited. The use of sampling with position-modulated pulses to achieve the same end, but with continuous delay variations and simpler requirements for the smoothing filter, is described. A certain awkwardness, traceable to the use of memories of finite capacity, is noted."
"The tolerance spread of the base-emitter voltage of a transistor depends on the absolute temperature of the device. The spread of the temperature coefficient of the base-emitter voltage seems to be independent of the transistor geometry and is equal to about 3.9 µV/°K per 1-mV tolerance spread of the base-emitter voltage for a constant emitter current and T = 300°K."
"A pulsed avalanche transit-time diode oscillator has been phase locked to a low-level CW signal. The phase locking reduces the incidental FM on the phase to a negligible amount, and pulse-to-pulse coherence is achieved."
"Data are presented showing that CdS thin-film microwave transducers can handle RF input powers of at least 46 watts peak, thus leading to practical microwave acoustic devices with output power levels exceeding several milliwatts and acoustic intensities in excess of 1 watt/mm2."
"A varactor frequency doubler was built using a varactor array of two diodes [1]. The varactors were separated by a transmission line one half wavelength long at the fundamental. An output power of twice that achieved with a single diode was obtained at the same efficiency."
"Submillimeter radiation from 0.5 mm to 1.0 mm wavelength has been generated by means of a 6 MeV electron beam exciting a Fabry-Perot resonator. With a beam current of 4 mA, power levels of 10/µW to 50 µW were obtained in each harmonic of the fundamental 2800 MHz accelerating frequency."
"Linear amplification in the 20 to 60 GHz range has been obtained using n-GaAs samples 5 microns thick. Gain was exhibited over several GHz and saturation occurred when the output power level reached 1 mW. The oscillatory power output was between 7 and 20 mW."
"In the above named letter, Paris has presented a method of generating conjugate potentials. This letter shows that his results could be more easily obtained from complex variable theory and how conjugate potentials may be used to find solutions of some first-order ordinary differential equations."
"A saturated high-field domain in a Gunn oscillator with high nL product is equivalent to a wall moving with constant velocity, through which constant density of current flows. Consequently, the waveform of a nonuniformly shaped oscillator is the replica of its shape. The characteristic can be applied for high-speed current function generation."
"In a line the incident and the reflected voltage can be rebuilt in an analog manner by detecting the current I and the voltage V, and realizing tbe linear combinations V+= (V + ZI)/2 and V-= (V-ZI)/2 with the help of suitable networks, either passive or active. Active directional couplers, obtained with one triode according to this method, are proposed."
"Equivalent networks for each type of controlled source are given. These equivalent networks contain only nullators, norators, and conventional bilateral immittances. No coupled or unilateral elements are required, and it is suggested that the use of such networks my simplify the setting up of network equations for computer solution."
"This letter deals with the propagation of coupled electro-magnetic and electroacoustic waves in a magnetized, compressible, generally inhomogeneous electron plasma. Some second-order coupled wave equations are derived."
"A semiconductor diode mount in the form of a resonant iris is proposed. This mount eliminates the need for reduced-height waveguide transducers. Some experimental results for a broadband PIN diode modulator using the proposed mount are shown. To reduce intermodulation between two modulating signals a modulator with two diodes was used."
"Lasing on several Si II and C1 II lines has been observed in a pulsed gaseous discharge in SiCl4vapor. Laser output as a function of current indicates that one Si II line lases in the afterglow of the discharge. Some possible mechanisms for achieving the population inversion are noted."
"An electromagnetic wave propagates along the x-axis through a nondispersive homogeneous medium in a stationary frame x-y-z-t. A primed frame x'-y'-z'-t' moves parallel to the x-axis with a constant speed. Using the Lorentz transformation, an equation for energy-transport velocity in the stationary frame has been reformulated in the moving frame."
"A method is briefly described for direct read-out of information written in SiO2films by a finely focused scanning electron beam. The technique utilizes the electron beam induced current collected at a p-n junction. Preliminary results are presented and discussed."
"A subharmonic parametric oscillator, pumped at 1500 MHz, which uses the charge storage effect in a p-n junction step-recovery diode is described."
"The previous analysis on the self-quenching oscillation of the feedback oscillators was a numerical analysis for the special example, and the operation mechanism, the physical characterization of this oscillation system, and the quantitative condition of generating or preventing the phenomenon have not been obtained in general form. Therefore, in this letter, the above subjects are clarified in general form and this result is applied to the general feedback oscillators."
"Conditions for space-charge-wave growth and differential negative resistance are obtained in \"two-valley\" semiconductors. The latter can be considered to be the condition for one of the small-signal instabilities. Numerical values of the conditions in a bulk GaAs are presented."
"The steady-state one-dimensional carrier distribution in depth is computed for electron-beam excitation of semiconductors, including diffusion and surface recombination. An exmple is given for n-type GaAs bombarded by a 29-kV electron beam."
"Interaction between electromagnetic fields and plasma in waveguides and cavities are analyzed. The treatment refers to a hot, inhomogeneous, collisionless electron plasma in a magnetic field, described by the linearized transport equations. The permittivity operator is introduced and variational principles are derived."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"Provides an overview of the technical articles and features presented in this issue."
"The interdependence of science and technology and measurement capability is especially significant in measurements at radio frequencies. An example of this symbiotic relationship involves microwave spectroscopy and quantum electronics. Accuracy of measurements at radio frequencies is highly critical in satellites and similar craft. Growing international cooperation in the exploitation of satellites for research and other peaceful uses has developed concern over compatiblity of international radio frequency measurements. Accordingly, the International Bureau of Weights and Measures in 1965 initiated a program to improve the techniques of measuring electrical quantities at radio frequencies."
"The history, purpose, and functioning of URSI, and the relationship of the United States National Committee of URSI to the IEEE, are described. A few examples demonstrating the interest of the Union in the field of this special issue of the PROCEEDINGS are given."
"The distinctive task of Commission I of the International Scientific Radio Union (URSI) is to extend the ability of all radio scientists to make valid measurements as a necessary means for the international exchange of scientific and engineering results. The Commission concentrates on: improved measurement methods applicable either to new phenomena or to closer tolerances for familiar phenomena, the highest national and international levels of accuracy, and progress for the long term. The Commission functions by surveying both progress and deficiencies in radio measurements and standards, by evaluating new results for their lasting contribution to the measurement structure of radio, by recommending the general adoption of proven advances and the pursuit of further research to remove deficiencies, and by giving its recommendations force and effect through the efforts of its members. A sketch of the international and national URSI organizations and operations is given. The functions are performed mainly by organizing technical meetings devoted to measurement and instrumentation, by encouraging pertinent publications, and by committee interactions with other international organizations having related interests. The organization has exerted significant impact on time and frequency standards, on international uniformity of radio standards, and on precision coaxial connectors as an aid to more accurate radio techniques."
"Activities to establish international agreement on measurements of high-frequency electrical quantities have been in progress since 1957 at the initiative of the International Scientific Radio Union (URSI) and the International Committee of Weights and Measures (CIPM). Results accomplished and the overall up-to-date status are presented."
"Economic expansion of industrial countries is dependent upon production and export of well-qualified and reliable products. National industrial controls, through a single unified Measurements System, establish compatibility of an export-nation's products with an import-nation's requirements as well as supplying internal national needs A survey was conducted in 1966 to determine the extent to which certain selected nations have established legal measurement systems. For comparison purposes, the measurement system maintained in the United States is briefly outlined and a presentation is made of the measurement capabilities of several industrial measurement laboratories taking part in an audit conducted by the National Conference of Standards Laboratories in 1964-1966."
"Adequate standards are essential to the practice of engineering. In no other fieid is this requirement more pressing than in the radio-frequency portion of the spectrum. This paper describes the organizations involved and the processes followed in the generation adoption, and dissemination of Standards Documents concerned with RF measurements. A listing of organization engaged in this activity, current Standards Documents, and work in process included."
"RF measurement offers an excellent opportunity to university students and practitioners to advance knowledge. Progress in the field requires better RF measurements, especially for improvement of systems."
"A systems concept of the measurement activities in the United States is briefly reviewed. This concept is the one recently proposed (1966) by R. D. Huntoon and named the \"National Mesurement System\" by him. His description of the role of the Institute for Basic Standards and its parent organization, the National Bureau of Standards, as a functional element of the system is summarized. Following this summary, the Radio Standards Laboratory, an organizational unit of the Institute for Basic Standards, is described as a functional element in the system. Some benefits of considering the Radio Standards Laboratory as an element of the system are given."
"This paper describes three major roles played by the NBS Radio Standards Laboratory in the field of electromagnetic measurements. It highlights the primary technical areas of the Laboratory with specific examples of the work involved, and mentions the various services which the Laboratory provides to the nation. It also describes the dynamic character and wide range of research in radio metrology at a national standards laboratory."
"The character and scope of the biennial Conference on Precision Electromagnetic Measurements (CPEM) are described. Some of its history is recounted and its increasing international coverage is noted."
"This paper reviews progress made over the past few years in the field of quartz crystal frequency standards. Several accomplishments which are thought to be of special importance are discussed in detail. These subjects include, among others, quartz vibrator enclosures, modes of motion including the \"trapped energy\" concept, and studies of quartz material. It has been demonstrated that the Q of synthetic quartz can be improved to a value equivalent to natural quartz. Progress made in the field of long-term stability of precision crystal units is described and the various reasons for aging of such units is discussed. The characteristics of precision crystal oscillators are reviewed, including temperature compensation and the influences of severe environment. The properties of high-precision crystal frequency standards are described with specific emphasis on aging, and the problem of short-term stability of such standards is discussed. Precision crystal standards are available today with a daily drift rate as low as a few parts in 1011and a short-term stability better than a few parts in 1010for a period of one millisecond."
"An attempt is made to trace the historical development of the leading contenders in the atomic frequency standards field--cesium and thallium atomic beam devices, rubidium gas cell standard, and the hydrogen maser. Many of the important experiments leading to the development of techniques basic to the various types of standards, such as the magnetic resonance method, optical pumping, buffer gases and wall coatings, and maser techniques are briefly described. Finally, the application of these basic techniques to the development of the specific types of atomic standards is discussed."
"The relative merits of atomic frequency standards based upon resonances in hydrogen, rubidium, or cesium depend upon the particular application and the specific requirement for each of several performance factors combined with physical characteristics. While the properties of an ideal atomic frequency standard may be established, practical instruments depart from the ideal as the result of compromises in the apparatus design and construction. The resonance line sharpness is an important factor which is dependent upon the apparatus; however, others my have a greater influence upon the essential characteristics. These include instrumental offsets due to atomic collisions with neighboring atoms or walls and magnetic fields. The intensity of the resonance signal is also essential in the determination of merit. These factors are discussed in relationship to hydrogen maser rubidium gas cell and cesium beam atomic frequency standards and the merits of each are compared. The possible merits of frequency standards based upon thallium beams are also discussed; however, a lack of extensive operating experience limits the knowledge in this case."
"Various examples of ideally defined time scales are given. Realizations of these scales occur with the construction and maintanance of various clocks, and in the broadcast dissemination of the scale information. Atomic and universal time scales disseminated via standard frequency and time-signal broadcasts are compared. There is a discussion of some studies of the associated problems suggested by the International Radio Consultative Committee (CCIR)."
"The paper reviews briefly the methods of generating atomic time and the errors inherent in the resulting scales. An atomic clock consists of an atomic frequency standard and an \"integrator\" to accumulate the phase of the signal. Because of noise perturbing the instantaneous frequency, an ensemble of identical atomic clocks will show a distribution of (epoch) times which is unbounded as the system evolves in time. The recognition of this problem has important consequences in national and international coordination of time scales and the construction of average atomic time scales. Also of significance is the not completely resolved question of weighting of individual standards in the construction of average time scales. In spite of these difficulties, it is pointed out that through coordination and proper data handling, most of the advantages of astronomical time scales can be realized by atomic time scales. A statement of some of the problems facing any attempts at coordination is presented without any suggested solutions."
"This paper reviews the present methods of distributing standard frequency and time signals (SFTS), which include the use of high-frequency, low-frequency, and very-low-frequency radio signals, portable clocks, satellites, and RF cables and lines. The range of accuracies attained with most of these systems is included along with an indication of the sources of error. Information is also included on the accuracy of signals generated by frequency dividers and multipliers. Details regarding the techniques, the propagation media, and the equipment used in the distribution systems described are not included. Also, the generation of the signals is not discussed."
"The need for improved accuracy in and understanding of all kinds of measurements has come with the recent rapid advances in modern technology. Radio frequency power measurement is no exception to this requirement. The basic principles of bolometric, calorimetric, and certain other types of power meters are reviewed. The methods for making accurate RF power measurements are discussed in detail. Emphasis is given to the techniques for eliminating or accounting for the errors due to mismatch, dc or LF substitution, and bolometer mount efficiency."
"This paper is a survey of the principal methods developed during the past twenty years for the measurement of RF peak pulse power. The basic principles involved for each method are described together with accuracies attainable under normal operating conditions. General techniques for pulse power measurement and precautions to be observed are also given."
"Tiffs is a review paper dealing with the measurement of fractional nanosecond pulse rise time in which the following subjects are discussed: oscillographic systems, pulse comparison techniques, a basic instrumentation system, and the distortion of pulses by transmission lines. Extensive references are provided. Included in the discussion is a delineation of equivalent-time oscillographic sampling systems and a classification into three sampling categories: sequential, random, and multiple. Also considered are single transient oscillographic systems employing either traveling-wave-deflection structure cathode ray tubes or multiple sampling methods. In order to clearly present the rise-time limitations caused by TEM transmission lines, attention is given to the distortion incurred by pulses upon passing through such lines. Some suggestions and predictions relating to future work are presented."
"This paper consists of four sections covering 1) basic principles of noise measurement, 2) the switching radiometer, 3) a survey of noise sources, and 4) concepts of noise factor and noise temperature. The first section presents basic formulas used in analyzing radiometers. The second discusses the switching radiometer, briefly tracing its development and usage in the standards field. The third section surveys the development of hot and cold thermal noise sources, noise diodes, and gas-discharge noise generators. The last section presents and discusses the basic definitions of receiver noise performance."
"The progress and up-to-date state-of-the-art in measuring voltages at frequencies to 10 GHz and higher is briefly described. The trend towards higher frequencies in voltmeter design is indicated. Advantages of voltage measurements and standards over computation of voltages from power and impedance measurements are briefly discussed. Some pending development problems are indicated and major steps are proposed to improve the application of voltmeters at frequencies above 30 MHz."
"Several methods are presently being used for the measurement of pulse voltage. Oscilloscopes are particularly useful because they provide information concerning the shape of the pulse, besides a measure of the peak voltage. In addition to the oscilloscope, several peak voltmeter circuits are mentioned. These include pulse stretching, sampling, and the slideback method. A standard pulse generator is described which provides a calibrated pulse voltage suitable for voltmeter calibration and other uses."
"The state-of-the-art of radio-frequency current measurement is reviewed with emphasis on the most useful standards. In particular, thermocouple and electrodynamic ammeters are discussed in detail. Reference is made to photoammeters, air thermometer milliammeters, and other types of current-measuring apparatus, some of which deserve additional development. Extensive referencing is included for the convenience of investigators interested in an intensive review of radio-frequency current measurements."
"Concepts and conditions underlying the establishment and use of immittance- and scattering-matrix descriptions of waveguide n-ports are discussed. TEM modes are considered and no restriction to high or microwave frequencies is implied. The discussion is intended to be critical and intensive rather than general. Needed results of electromagnetic (and waveguide) theory are assumed. Emphasis is placed on defining basic quantities needed in the matrix scheme. These include: generalized voltage and current, v and i, for waveguide modes; modal impedance; modal characteristic impedance; the immittance matrices Z and Y; traveling-wave amplitudes a and b; reflection coefficient Γ; and the scattering matrix S. Properties of Z, Y, and S are not discussed; applications are indicated but not discussed."
"This paper is intended to be tutorial in the specific area of lumped parameter immittance measurement at radio frequencies. Included is a brief background discussion with particular emphasis upon the important recent developments of precision coaxial connectors and coaxial air dielectric transmission lines as immittance standards. Special emphasis is given to precision coaxial connectors and their necessity in achieving highest accuracies. Other sections of the paper deal with standards, techniques of measurement, and instruments. The present state-of-the-art is presented in graphical form wherein the accuracies attainable by best practices are compared with the best capabilities found in specifications for commercial instruments. The state-of-the-art presentation includes two-terminal as well as three-terminal measurements. The paper concludes with some recommendations for improving the state-of-the-art in this measurement area."
"This article is a tutorial review of impedance measurements and standards in coaxial waveguide systems propagating a TEM wave. It describes the development of coaxial air lines as impedance standards, reviews representative measurement methods, and discusses the errors and measurement techniques of the slotted line in detail."
"Previous work in precision coaxial connectors for air lines and improvement of coaxial cable connectors is reviewed. The current philosophies and resulting Standards of the United States of America Standards Institute's Subcommittee C83.2 and the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers' Subcommittee on Precision Coaxial Connectors are discussed. Techniques for improved VSWR measurements needed in the development of precision coaxial connectors are described. Applications, development plans, and unresolved problems are mentioned."
"A tutorial review is presented of the measurement of impedance and reflection coefficient in uniconductor waveguide. Normalized impedance in a waveguide operating in a particular mode is defined and related to measured quantities such as the reflection coefficient and the VSWR. Emphasis is given to the rectangular waveguide operating in its dominant mode and to the tuned reflectometer as an instrument for achieving the most accurate results. The evolution of the tuned reflectometer at NBS is outlined and recent techniques are discussed. Different types of standards of reflection coefficient are described and the advantages and limitations of each are mentioned."
"A tutorial review of RF attenuation measurement methods and standards is presented. Accepted and proposed definitions and attenuator models are discussed. Commonly used standards operating from dc through most waveguide bands are compared with the \"ideal\" interlaboratory standard. Characteristics of fixed resistive, waveguide below-cutoff, and rotary-vane standards are included. Measurement methods are classified and described, including comments concerning convenience and accuracy of various methods, and references are given which cover most of the basic important research in the field."
"A phase-shift standard, a measurement system, and the techniques for determining the corresponding limit of uncertainty are all required for obtaining the phase-shift characteristics of UHF and microwave components. Differential phase-shift standards measurement techniques, and measurement uncertainties are all discussed in a general sense and a comprehensive bibliograpby is included to supplement the general discussion."
"A description is given of the CW field-strength and associated measurement instrumentation and techniques used for the calibration of both commercial and military field-strength meters in various frequency bands of the overall range from 30 Hz to 1000 MHz, which have been developed at the National Bureau of Standards during the past 25 to 30 years. The techniques are applicable only for evaluating the strength of steady-state, ac fields varying sinusoidally in time, and are not intended for use in broad-band applications of any kind. Two principal types of field-strength standards and a prototype near-zone field-strength meter are described: 1) magnetic-field-strength standards (30 Hz to 30 MHz), 2) electric-field-strength standards (30 to 1000 MHz), and 3) near-zone electric-field-strength meter and interim field-strength standards (150 kHz to 30 MHz)."
"To calibrate antennas for state-of-the-art field-strength measurements above 1 GHz, standard antennas are needed that have gain values known to within ±0.1 dB. Since this requirements exceeds the verified accuracy of calculated gain values, these standards must be established by making absolute gain measurements. The discussion primarily concerns absolute gain measurements for horn antennas by the two-antenna method. However, much of the discussion is pertinent to high-accuracy field-strength measurements in general. The two-antenna method is considered to be essentially an insertions-loss measurement (with many additional problems and sources of error), and this concept is used to derive a working formula that is suitable for high-accuracy gain measurements. The two most intractable problems-- insufficient antenna separation and multipath interference--are discussed in detail. Some important experimental details are included that have previously been overlooked or inadequately discussed, and it is concluded that previous error estimates of less than ±0.1 dB for horn-gain measurements have been somewhat optimistic. To facilitate the design and evaluation of high-accuracy gain measurements, some simple terms, concepts, and formulas are provided that are useful in analyzing multipath interference."
"Swept-measurement techniques are developing rapidly and have demonstrated their crucial importance in advancing the microwave state-of-the-art. The key components of swept-measurement systems are discussed and the development of reflection coefficient measurements on a swept basis is examined in detail. Reflectometer and slotted-line accuracies are analyzed using signal flow graphs. The results are compared to illustrate that in the typical laboratory, swept-frequency measurements offer accuracy equivalent to the slower, more tedious, fixed-frequency systems. A significant step forward has been the development of instrumentation to completely characterize high-frequency networks by means of the complex scattering matrix. The new techniques for sweep-measuring the amplitude and phase of microwave parameters are explained and the s-parameter design procedures which have evolved are referenced."
"Measurement techniques and measuring instruments in the millimeter and submillimeter wavelength range are described. Included are discussions of devices in dominant (TE10)-mode rectangular waveguide such as a bolometer which possesses an efficiency of 95 percent, a gas absorption wattmeter with an accuracy of 5 percent and a sensitivity of 10-6watts, and isolators and variable attenuators. Components in circular TE01-mode waveguide are described, including a standing-wave indicator with a residual VSWR of 1.02 and an adjustable attenuator with 30 dB of attenuation and a VSWR of 1.08. Devices for use in free space include a pair of dielectric prisms for use as an adjustable directional coupler, a hybrid junction, and an adjustable attenuator. Attenuation is readily adjustable from zero to 30 dB with directivity in excess of 15 dB. Also described are dielectric slab filters and calorimetric power meters with accuracies of 0.5 percent in the power range 1-50 mW. Interferometers for use as wavemeters with accuracy as good as 0.04 percent and for use as cavities with Q as high as 106are described. They can be used in the measurement of dielectric constant with accuracies of 2 percent. Measurements of the characteristics, attenuation, field distribution, and loss per iteration of beam waveguides and reflecting beam guides have been made which yield good confirmation of theoretical predictions. Measurements of focal length, aberrations, and other characteristics of gas lenses for use in free-space waveguides are described. Measurements are carried out using the lateral shear interferometer, and the Mach-Zehnder interferometer."
"Methods of frequency and wavelength stabilization of gas lasers are reviewed with emphasis on principles of operation and results of stability measurements rather than experimental details or apparatus design. Most of the stabilization work has been done with the He-Ne laser. The best long-term stability is about 1 part in 109. Various wavelength measurements of stabilized He-Ne lasers by interferometric comparison with standard lamps give agreement to about 2 parts in 107. Wavelength shifts due to variations of gas pressure and gain are important factors in limiting the absolute wavelength stability of gas lasers. Optical standards of length and their use in length measurements are considered."
"Measurements of laser energy and power are discussed with emphasis on those methods which attempt to establish the accuracy or standards for such measurements. Devices to attenuate laser radiation are summarized. The principles and limitations of the methods are stressed rather than design details of the apparatus. It is found that standards for the measurement of laser power and energy are yet to be definitely established. Thus caution should be exercised in accepting stated accuracies for laser output measurements."
"Modern RF measurements of the speed of light are reviewed, with emphasis on those methods capable of attaining an accuracy of 1.0 km/s or better. The geodimeter and microwave interferometer methods are discussed in some detail because of the significant role they have played in arriving at our present value for c. Serious limitations of the microwave resonant cavity method are pointed out and brief mention is made of the electrical units and band spectrum methods. A recent measurement by Karolus and Helmberger, who obtained the value 299 792.1±0.2 km/s, is mentioned. Some experimental factors that should be considered in planning future speed-of-light measurements are presented, and an experiment involving lasers, now in progress at the Joint Institute of Laboratory Astrophysics, is described briefly. The conclusion is that the presently accepted value of 299 792.5±0.3 km/s is still valid. Only two or three measurements have been completed since its adoption nearly ten years ago and they are not of sufficient accuracy to warrant a re-evaluation of c."
"The extension of radio frequency techniques to the optical region of the spectrum has made possible many types of measurements which were not feasible before. One area in which important scientific contributions can be expected during the next few years is the use of lasers to measure long distances with high accuracy. Three types of distance measurements which have been discussed in the literature and which are now being investigated actively are: 1) interferometric measurements over distances of up to hundreds of meters through evacuated or sealed-off tubes, 2) measurements with modulated laser beams over distances of perhaps one to fifty kilometers with corrections made for the atmospheric index of refraction along the path, and 3) range measurements to artificial satellites and to the moon using laser radar. Some of the possible geophysical and geodetic applications of such measurements will also be discussed."
"Methods for radio and microwave measurements of dielectric and magnetic pcoperties of materials are discussed and referenced. The reference period extends to mid-1966. Measurement errors are analyzed where appropriate."
"Standards extending the frequency range of both instrumentation and techniques up to 1000 MHz are being developed. Along with the spectrum signature concept, the use of automated instrumentation is becoming increasingly important. Of recent interest are techniques for measurement of harmonic power in a waveguide, near fields of antennas, line current, the Poynting vector, and device radiation at frequencies above 50 MHz."
"The general factors involved in the estimation of uncertainties in calibration or measurement are reviewed briefly. Twenty-five accuracy charts are presented showing the estimated uncertainties in National Bureau of Standards calibrations of laboratory standards or measuring instruments for electrical and radio-frequency quantities."
"A poem about writing a paper for IEEE."
"Self-pumped parametric amplification was achieved with an avalanche diode oscillating at 14.7 GHz. Gain of 17 dB was measured in a reflection-type configuration at 2.1 and 4.5 GHz."
"The authors compare the merit of transverse and longitudinal waves in ultrasonic light modulators. In modulation modes in which the desirable property of polarization rotation of the modulation is achieved, transverse waves are shown to be superior to longitudinal waves in all significant respects. The reduction in background illumination attainable in a diffraction modulator employing transverse waves is demonstrated experimentally."
"Gunn oscillators have been made from epitaxially grown GaAs n+-n-n+\"sandwich\" structures. Peak powers up to 56 watts have been obtained in L-band with an efficiency of 15 percent. The positive temperature coefficient of resistance of the epitaxial material provides a built-in protection against thermal runaway."
"Coincidence pulses generated upon sinusoidal scanning of a curve originally recorded optically (e.g., ink-on-paper, photographically) trigger a sample-and-hold circuit having the scanning waveform as an input; a sampled electrical version of the original curve thus results. This principle is readily adaptable to simultaneous multichannel operation for continuous automatic reading of electroencephalograms, seismograms, etc."
"With reference to the above-named letter, the commentor reports that a complete theory of double-gap and multigap interaction in klystrons was published by Chandra and Gavin in 1964. A microwave cavity suitable for double-gap interaction in klystron amplifiers and reflex klystrons was also described by Chandra in 1964. Experimental work on a double-gap reflex klystron is in progress at the National Physical Laboratory, New Delhi, India."
"Dependence of microwave emission intensity from InSb on an angle between the dc electric and magnetic fields is measured in X-band at 77°K to investigate the mechanism of instability. Rather complicated magnetic field dependence is also shown. A linear relationship is found between log B0and θmax, where B0is the threshold magnetic field and Gmaxis the angle between the electric and magnetic fields to give the maximum emission intensity."
"An analysis has been made of the performance of a proposed microwave rotator, which utilizes wave propagation through semiconductor material, subjected to a high electric field. Calculations based on the properties of n-type germanium are presented for such a system."
"A parallel electro-optical technique for implementing linear threshold adaptive networks is described. The technique is characterized by its ability to converge upon a dichotomous decision on patterns presented in a two-dimensional optical image form. An experimental example and results are presented."
"Transient emission characteristics of tungsten and thoriated tungsten filaments are investigated in terms of an emission time constant τep. This analysis is extended to oxide coated tungsten filaments in a way which makes it useful for the design of quick-heating cathodes."
"This paper considers two important aspects of the electron distribution function in n-GaAs: the anisotropy of the distribution function at high applied fields and the nonparabolicity of the central valley. The number of electrons in the central and outer valleys is calculated by numerical methods for a typical value of the electric field both for a parabolic and for a slightly nonparabolic"
"By using a conventional slotted-line technique, a high value of VSWR can be measured by initially obtaining a reading at the Vmin, and then, without changing the meter scale, decoupling the probe in successive increments until the Vmaxis reached."
"A graphic-numerical construction of integral curve-separatrices corresponding to differential equations of a circuit with a tunnel diode is described. The letter discusses the occurrence of multiple-valued separatrices which are significant in the design of nonconventional circuit elements including tunnel diodes."
"Systematic tracking errors that are in planar monopulse phased arrays of rectangular form and with uniform excitations, produced by phase shifters having a transfer characteristic with a departure from a straight line of sinusoidal shape, are given."
"The condition for preservation of entropy power through sampled data filters is given. The input is a stationary bandlimited random process."
"The image circle is used as a basis for determining the power transfer through a 4-terminal network. Conditions for maximizing the power transfer are presented."
"Semitransparent materials are examined for their suitability as thermal calibrators in millimeter-wave radiometry. It is shown that at 75 GHz, a typical error of about 20°C is incurred in the calibration of a radiometer when the semitransparent material is assumed to be opaque."
"This letter deals with the calculation of cutoff frequencies of a type of grooved waveguides using conformal mapping techniques."
"The coupled integral equations for the transverse and the axial currents in a tubular antenna are derived for the case in which it is driven along an infinitesimally narrow circumferential gap by an EMF which is allowed to vary along the circumference. The cases where the EMF is assumed to be maintained either on the outside surface only, or on the inside surface only, or on both surfaces of the tube as in the conventional treatments of antenna theory are considered."
"A simple general relationship between dc and ac transistor common emitter current gain for the low injection level condition is developed. Measured data substantiating the calculated relationships is included."
"A method for measuring the transducer film coupling constant of microwave thin-film piezoelectric transducers is presented. Measured coupling constant data for a simple form of CdS transducer is reported, and is compared with published data for bulk, single crystals of CdS."
"One approach to the design of highly selective active RC filters is based on the use of positive immittance inverters (PII), of which the gyrator is a common example. A PII is described which is more general than the gyrator and leads to the design of integrable, highly selective filters."
"We show that an algorithm, due to Omura and Schalkwijk, for transmitting real numbers over a white Gaussian noise channel, is most efficient in a minimum-mean-square-error sense because, at least for white Gaussian sources, it achieves the lower bound predicted by Shannon's theory of fidelity criteria (rate-distortion theory)."
"A method of using lens arrays is described which reduces the information content of a hologram and hence the bandwidth needed for its transmission."
"Diffused p-n junction diodes with measured zero-bias cutoff frequencies to values in excess of 2000 GHz have been made by planar techniques. Their fabrication and properties are described."
"Esaki diodes have been fabricated on n-type Ge diffused with Au. A hump is observed in the valley of the I-V characteristics due to two-step interactions with the Au levels."
"Metal-oxide-semiconductor (MOS) capacitance-voltage measurements are used to determine the epitaxial layer resistivity. This method can be used to characterize epitaxial layers without removing the oxide present on the as-received wafers. The results are compared with that obtained by diode-capacitance technique and point contact method."
"In this letter it is pointed out that a substantial improvement in the effective quantum efficiency of ordinary photodetectors can be obtained by simply tilting the detector surface to Brewster's angle. The technique is best applied to laser heterodyne systems in which the light is linearly polarized, and for which the quantum efficiency directly determines the system sensitivity."
"A new method has been developed for minimizing the back-scatter of a conducting plate. This method consists of placing a loaded wire loop in front of the plate. By adjusting the loading of the loop the induced current on the loop can be modified to cancel the effect of the induced current on the plate so that the total backscatter is minimized. This method has been verified experimentally to be very effective (up to 25 dB reduction) and it should have great practical applications."
"Beam lead varactors arranged in an array are used as a composite varactor in a high-power microstrip thin-film frequency quadrupler. Less than 6 dB conversion loss is obtained for 2.250 to 9.000 GHz frequency conversion at 2 watts input peak power."
"Given a stable linear time-invariant dynamical system x·= Ax, it is shown that there exists a related stable family of dynamical systems x·=A(k)x. The Lyapunov stability criterion remains valid for all linear operators A(k)=DkA of this family."
"The probability density function of the ratio of two nonzero mean Gaussian random variables is derived. The particular application here is for calibrated signals using noisy calibration levels."
"A peak pulse power of 5 watts was obtained at 9 GHz from an avalanche breakdown NIP planar diode mounted in waveguide. This result is believed to be the first report of appreciable power from a planar avalanching diode. The power impedance product is among the highest reported to date."
"This letter describes the formation of acoustic holograms retaining the properties of holograms made by the Leith-Upatneiks method without requiring the use of an acoustic reference wave. Holograms are recorded by scanning a linear transducer over an inclined plane; the phase reference is synthesized electronically in the receiver. Experimental results in air at 25 kHz are described."
"Preliminary results are presented which were obtained during a measurement program designed to investigate multipath effects in the propagation path at UHF frequencies from a synchronous satellite to an aircraft. Specular reflection was observed over both land and sea for grazing angles up to about 15°."
"Since point electrons in atomic environments should be unstable, classical electrodynamics has been proclaimed inadequate. An electron size estimate is made from which it is concluded that earlier estimates were too small, and that stable atomic electrons are commensurate with classical electrodynamics."
"A class of RC oscillators which incorporate a paraphase voltage amplifier instead of the conventional single output amplifier is presented. Interesting properties are displayed and low-frequency oscillators can be constructed using far lower values of resistance and capacitance than would be required for, say, a Wein oscillator."
"Using principles of point estimation theory, and certain results pertaining to deterministic systems, a stability criterion (stability with probability 1 - ε) is developed for the case of linear systems containing time-varying parameters. It is assumed here that certain statistical properties of the time-varying parameters are known."
"Regions of p and n silicon were obtained on the same substrate using a modified etch and refill technique. n- and p-channel enhancement mode MOS transistors were fabricated in these regions. The depletion of boron from the silicon surface was minimized by the use of low-temperature pyrolytic oxide for the diffusion mask and the insulator of the MOS transistors. An integrated complementary MOS memory circuit constructed with the aforementioned techniques exhibited a standby power dissipation of 8.4 µW at 12 volts supply."
"This letter presents an algorithm for constructing state-equations corresponding to a well-formed, linear, time-varying system L(t,p)y = R(t,p)u."
"A general reciprocity theorem is formulated for a magneto-ionic medium both in the frequency and the time domains. This reciprocity when stated through the use of the time-reversal transformation in a reference frame in which all the field quantities conform to causality yields the conventional reciprocity relations valid for a magneto-ionic medium."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"Provides an overview of the technical articles and features presented in this issue."
"A relationship has been established between departure from small signal theory gain, the onset of nonohmic I-V characteristics, and gain saturation on broadband acoustic noise flux in the CdS ultrasonic amplifier. Noise figure measurements in material whose experimental gain behaves according to small signal theory have allowed evaluation of the level of acoustic flux at the amplifier output plane when noise saturation occurs. Extrapolation from measured points yields a relationship between the acoustic flux saturation level and the material carrier concentration. Measurements also indicate that, even for noise flux levels approaching saturation, signal saturation occurs for bunching parameters slightly greater than 1. Second harmonic distortion is more than 20 decibels down in this condition. The interrelationships between signal power levels and noise flux levels are examined for their effect on an amplifier's maximum possible gain and dynamic range. In particular, maximum possible ultrasonic gain is found to be limited to approximately 80 decibels."
"A program which provides man-machine communication for the analysis of electronic circuits on a time-sharing computer is presented. The program is a part of AEDNET, a simulator for nonlinear networks, written in the AED-0 language and operating on the Project MAC time-sharing computer. The Electronic Systems Laboratory display console is used as a graphical input-output device on which the circuit diagram is plotted and the calculation results are observed. The requirements imposed on such a man-machine communication system are discussed and a unified way of answering these requirements is presented by developing some basic network concepts and their associated data structure. From the experience gained in writing and using the system, several conclusions are reached regarding the features that such a communication program should have to insure convenient and natural man-machine interaction."
"This paper describes the application of the phase-controlled oscillator to precision frequency comparison in order to improve the measurement accuracy. A relation derived between the counter readings, which measure the average frequency over time T, and the power spectrum of the added phase noise forms the basis for the design of the loop in various applications: frequency comparison, optimization of the operating parameters of frequency standards by detecting the frequency shift due to an applied parameter change, and assessment of the phase jitter generated in multiplier chains. The design procedure includes a determination of the error due to drifts in the oscillator and an estimate of the response time of the loop. An example of a loop which multiplies a noisy 5.6 kHz signal by 200 is given. In determining the mean frequency of a 9.2 MHz crystal oscillator compared to a rubidium vapor frequency standard the one-second counter readings of the multiplied beat signal are found to have a standard deviation of 1.16 × 10-11."
"The conditions sufficient to assert the existence of absolute (time-growing) instabilities in distributed parametric structures or media are shown. Treating the simple, linearized, time-space periodic transmission line model, it is shown that time-growing instabilities exist in an unbounded medium whenever the pump modulation velocity is greater then the characteristic velocity of the medium and is in the convergent (\"nonsonic\") range of operation. The existence of these instabilities is based upon the rigorous calculation of the dispersion relation for the model, accounting for all small-signal frequencies. Proof of the existence of the instability, using the dispersion relation of the active structure, is based upon the method of Briggs, previously used in electron-stream interactions. The waveform of these instabilities is that of the backward-wave oscillator and comparisons with backward-wave oscillator (electron-beam) tubes are made. The predictions of the theory hold only for the transient period, for which the linearized model is valid, before the fields reach the nonlinear regime. The analysis, however, forms the basis for certain simple calculations of oscillation frequency, growth rates, predictions of competing interactions, and identification of wave types--all useful for application. The method of analysis should be useful for application to various other types of parametric interactions involving elastic waves, spin waves, plasma waves, etc., in single or multimode coupling schemes. The frequency range of application of such traveling-wave parametric effects extends from the optical range down to the radio-frequency range."
"This paper examines in detail the effects of high and low energy electron, X-ray, and ultraviolet radiation on oxidized silicon surfaces and planar devices. Two permanent effects of ionizing radiation on oxidized silicon surfaces are distinguished: 1) The buildup of a positive space charge within the oxide, and 2) The creation of fast surface states at the oxide-silicon interface resulting in increased surface recombination velocity. The dependence of these effects on dose and dose rate, on bias applied during irradiation, and on structural parameters is discussed and a theory is presented which accounts for the observed features of the space-charge buildup. This theory involves trapping of holes which are generated within the oxide by the radiation. It is shown that all details of the experimental observations can be accounted for by assuming a high density of hole traps near the oxide-silicon interface which decays rapidly with distance into the oxide. Radiation-induced changes in the characteristics of MOS and junction field-effect transistors, p-n junction diodes, and p-n-p and n-p-n transistors are reported and examined in terms of the above two effects. It is shown that the charge buildup causes shifts in the operating point of MOS transistors, catastrophic increases in the reverse current of p-n junctions, and variations in their breakdown voltage. The increase in fast surface-state density is responsible for the lowering of the transconductance of MOS transistors and, in combination with the space-charge buildup, for the degradation of the current gain in bipolar transistors. It is shown that junction field-effect transistors are relatively insensitive to both effects of ionizing radiation and therefore offer the most promise for use in ionizing radiation environments."
"A technique for the frequency stabilization of an FM laser is discussed. This technique employs a stabilization discriminant derived from a residual variation of the phase and amplitude of the small FM laser beat note at the modulation frequency, as the frequency of the FM carrier moves across the Doppler gain profile. A first-order analysis describes the dependence of that stabilization discriminant on δ, the mode coupling coefficient produced by the internal KDP phase modulator, and Γ, the resulting FM modulation index. Experimentally, a 50-mW He-Ne FM laser was frequency stabilized to better than one part in 108on a long-term basis. In addition, the beat note at the modulation frequency was suppressed by 40 dB from its free-running value."
"This paper gives formulas for the transients in a simple lossless harmonic generator circuit consisting of a step recovery diode, two inductors, and two capacitors. By means of graphic plots of the instantaneous values of currents and voltages, it is concluded that high efficiency requires approximately equal values of the two inductors."
"An experiment is described in which prime and irreducible multiples of fundamental frequencies near 70 GHz are mixed with radiation from a carcinotron at 300 GHz. Forty-seven orders of mixing were observed. From the recent successful mixing of 75 GHz with radiation of a CN laser at 964 GHz, it is argued that in the above experiment 3300 GHz were actually present in the mixer."
"A tin lasing line at 6579 Å has been observed in a pulsed gaseous discharge in SnCl4vapor. Lasing was also observed on Cl II lines in the discharge. The laser output had an annular appearance and the tin line lased only during the period of current increase."
"A novel design criterion for the lumped element coaxial transmission line directional coupler is discussed for HF band operation (2 to 30 MHz). This technique utilizes the inherent self-compensating low-pass equalizing characteristic of a high reactance secondary transformer winding. Experimental results of a representative coupler design are shown."
"It is shown that a relationship exists between the impedance matching at the output port of a negative resistance amplifier and its noise performance. The class of amplifiers considered is characterized by a lossless embedding network and by negative resistances having the same noise exchangeable power."
"A new system is presented for displaying radar signal parameters in color using techniques based on the modern math application of Venn-Euler diagrams. These diagrams are portrayed on a standard color television picture tube. The observer can monitor several signal parameters simultaneously which are in the form of dynamic kaleidoscopic patterns. The system appears to be most applicable to resolving radar target \"signatures.\""
"By utilizing the concept of the generalized inverse of a matrix, it is possible to obtain more complete multivariable control system design equations than have previously been published. Also, condition equations can define the limitations which must be imposed upon the desired system H' in order to realize a mathematical solution."
"Accurate low-frequency noise measurements over the range of 1 Hz to 10 kHz on a number of different transistor types showed that the majority obey the f-α-law, the factor α being between 0.96 and 1.23. Certain samples, however, exhibited an additional noise component with a frequency dependence of the form [1 + (f/f0)2]-1."
"A different approach to analog multiplication results in a four-quadrant multiplier using a field-effect transistor FET in a feedback network. The linear multiplication is obtained by operating the FET as a voltage-controlled conductance."
"A useful quantization error bound is obtained for hybrid digital-analog control systems. The error is bounded by a time-varying function that becomes zero if the digital computer has no time or ordinate quantization error. The error bound may either converge or diverge depending on the magnitudes involved. The analysis is valid for a hybrid computerization of a linear time-varying system. Sharp results for the constant coefficient case are presented."
"This letter presents fundamental data on electrode evaporation caused by arc discharge of heavy currents. The reduction in the mass of the wire, i.e., the evaporated mass of the wire, is shown to linearly increase in proportion to the product of the current and the time of the arc. Also, the magnitude of the evaporation was larger in the order of Cu, Fe, and Al."
"A flip-flop circuit suggested by Uzunoglu is considered a little further using ideas of load lines and dynamic trajectories. Owing to stringent requirements it appears that the operation of the circuit is somewhat marginal. This leads to the conclusion that the circuit is not a very practical proposition."
"Reflection of TE11waves at the junction between a circular waveguide and a conical horn was measured. The results were compared with theoretical results of Piefke [4] and Unger [6], and agreed closely with those of Piefke."
"A method of generating ternary sequences with zero cyclic correlation except for the spike for zero lag is described. The sequences are of length given by (3n-1)/2 where n is odd. A method of generating uncorrelated sequences derived from the ternary sequence modified by a Hadamard matrix is indicated."
"The purpose of this letter is to describe a method of approximately determining the radiation fields of rhombic antennas buried in snow. This method is based on reciprocity arguments in conjunction with an assumed current distribution in the rhombic."
"Boff diodes and a tapped delay line are used in the production of pulse burst waveforms with very high bit rates. Applications are in complex pulse generation and parallel to serial conversion."
"The conditions under which the parallel combination of two n-port networks has a short-circuit admittance matrix which is equal to the sum of the short-circuit admittance matrices of the component networks are examined. A convenient test involving the modified cut-set matrix of each network is presented."
"A four-terminal thin-film transistor which provides voltage amplification with variable transconductance and threshold is described. The device structure incorporates the novel feature of asymmetric insulated gates on the opposite faces of a polycrystalline cadmium selenide film. Experimental data describing the device operation are presented."
"A 2-GHz lower-frequency-pumped parametric amplifier with three idler frequencies has been investigated experimentally. The amplifier operates within a second region of stability. The mean design formulas derived from its equivalent circuit are cited. The noise figure and the gain-bandwidth product amount to 2.5 dB and 290 MHz, respectively."
"An analysis is carried out for a frequency multiplier using a charge-storage diode in an inductive circuit. Expressions are derived for efficiency and power output for the case where the diode capacitance is negligible. The results are verified experimentally."
"Coupling between high-voltage clock lines and high-impedance diffused regions in MOSFET IC's can be significant. A method is described for calculating the voltage fed onto a nonlinear p-n junction capacitance from a metal interconnect lead. Analysis is based upon a load line drawn on the p-n junction Q-V characteristic."
"The emission wavelengths and time behavior of laser lines from a pulsed discharge through D2O are reported. Nine new lines are reported in the present work. A total of 30 emission lines are now known for D2O in the range 26 to 172 microns."
"A general invariance of the ratio of open- and short-circuit impedances for arbitrary linear n-port networks is presented. The invariance is derived in terms of the characteristic polynomials (describing the modes of oscillations) associated with an n-port network under various open- and short-circuit terminal constraints. The result is a generalization of the two-port invariance recently published by a number of authors."
"A new approach to distributed network analysis is presented with the analysis of the n-wire exponential line as example. This approach provides the distributed network's transfer matrix in a form useful for both transient and steady-state network calculations."
"A simple relationship between the equicofactor admittance and impedance matrices of any n-terminal or n-mesh network is described confirming a conjecture of Spence."
"This letter describes the pulsed operation of large area silicon p-n junction avalanche diode oscillators. At X-band 30 watts were obtained and at 21 GHz, 8.8 watts."
"An effect induced by illumination of cooled Gunn oscillators which results in an abrupt shift from the transit-time frequency mode to a higher frequency is reported. The mechanism responsible for the observed operation has tentatively been identified as high-field trapping by deeplying acceptors."
"The question of the existence of distributed gain mechanisms in solid-state plasmas is discussed. It is concluded that such plasmas may be active, i.e., capable of transferring net energy to electromagnetic waves, even though these waves are stable in the sense that they do not grow spatially."
"The magnetic field distribution is derived which gives linear dispersion of magnetoelastic waves in an axially magnetized YIG rod. The specific field variation for dispersion of 100 MHz/µs at a center frequency of 2 GHz is computed."
"A curve was deduced giving the maximum sphere gap against the sphere diameter so that the corresponding discharge potential will not depend on the positions of the spheres. The distortion effect in the original field was eliminated by extrapolating the results obtained to the case of a testing sphere of zero diameter."
"This letter considers the significant device parameters making a current-gain monolithic circuit, using a matched pair of silicon transistors. Equations are derived which relate the current gain to the device characteristics, the parameter matching, and thermal matching."
"A new semiconductor pressure transducer is presented which shows a higher sensitivity than commonly used devices. A new diode avoids the problem of extremely accurate stylus positioning."
"This letter corrects a misconception concerning the surface current on a perfect conductor as stated in a recent paper and simplifies the formula for the field backscattered from a rough surface."
"Two active circuits realizing ideal transformers are considered from the stability point of view. One of them employs negative resistances and the other controlled sources. Stability conditions are found. For the latter case stability was checked experimentally."
"Applications of the Gunn effect in logic-circuit devices are described, where the domain-nucleating field near a small negative electrode can be changed by a second small electrode. This leads to single-component devices such as a \"comparator\" and an \"inhibitor,\" which have essential advantages over the corresponding conventional circuits."
"Electrical characteristics of an epitaxial GaAs FET are reported. The device is of an interdigitated structure, employing alloyed evaporated metal source and drain contacts, and an evaporated Schottky barrier gate. Transconductance of the order of 20 millimhos is obtained, a factor of ∼5 better than a silicon device of identical geometry. A cutoff frequency of ∼3 GHz is obtained. The device characteristics demonstrate the feasibility of such a device for use at microwave frequencies."
"The letter presents what is believed to be a new theorem in the field of steady current flow."
"Problems have been experienced with inoperative military equipment which have been traced to a defect in some quartz crystal units. This defect has been determined to be an increase in resistance (loss of Q) of crystal resonators when excited at very low power levels. The typical crystal oscillator, when first turned on, excites the resonator with thermal noise and consequently the power dissipated is very small. Simple instrumentation has been assembled to show clearly the low power increased crystal resistance effect. Tests have shown that surface defects, due to the final lapping process, contribute to the problem. The necessity of surface etch to remove the damaged surface layer is shown to be required to avoid defective crystal units."
"The generalized chirp signal ambiguity function |X(τ, ω, µ)|2describes the output of a filter matched to a chirp signal when the input is mismatched in frequency sweep rate as well as carrier frequency and arrival time. This letter provides an interpretation of |X(0, ω, µ)|2in terms of the amplitude spectrum of a chirp signal. A relationship between |X(0, ω, µ)|2and |X(τ, 0, µ)|2is then developed which simplifies the computation of the latter function."
"It is shown that the well-known phenomenon of total reflection at the interface between two dielectric media is modified in an interesting manner by their relative motion."
"In this letter, closed-form solutions of linear stationary state equations are derived for several important input vectors using integration by parts applied to matrices. The results are then used to find the steady-state responses of linear systems. Recursive formulas for the numerical evaluation of the responses are also discussed."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"Provides an overview of the technical articles and features presented in this issue."
"The limitations imposed on the performance of large-area p-n junction devices by the size and quality of the silicon material are reviewed. It is shown that material quality problems--such as nouniform resistivity, foreign particulate matter, microdefects, dissolved oxygen, and various crystallographic defects--represent real limitations on device performance and yields; however, the effects of process-induced defects--such as diffusion- or stress-induced dislocations, diffusant precipitation, heavy metal precipitation, and interface degradation--often obscure, or even overwhelm, the effects of the grown-in defects. The importance of the interaction of process-induced defects with grown-in defects, and particularly the interaction of heavy metals with defects, foreign particulate matter and dissolved oxygen, has been emphasized by the results of recent investigations. The need for defect-free processing techniques in obtaining information on the effects of grown-in defects is discussed. Representative studies of the effects of defects on device performance are listed. New techniques for studying defects are reviewed with reference to results of interest to silicon device technology. Some growth techniques which may be helpful in eliminating certain material quality problems are discussed briefly."
"This paper is a comprehensive review of the published literature dealing with the phenomenon of second breakdown in semiconductor devices and the problems it creates in the design, fabrication, testing, and application of transistors."
"The power thyristor is the most important semicoductor device used in the control of electric power. An explanation of thyristor ratings and rating presentation is required for the complete understanding and successful application of these devices. This paper not only explains the meaning of thyristor temperature, voltage, current, and gate ratings but also presents insights into how these ratings are developed. Both the semiconductor controlled rectifier (SCR), which is properly called a reverse blocking triode thyristor, and the bidirectional thyristor rating methods are discussed. SCR rating are further divided into those applying to phase control applications at power frequencies and those applying to high repetition rate inverter and pulse current appications."
"This paper describes an experimental investigation of the di/dt failure mechanism of thyristors. The location of the initial turn-on region and the spread of the \"on\" region were observed on a specially designed thyristor having many monitoring electrodes. The turn-on process was studied for triggering by gate, by breakover, and by dv/dt. In many cases it was found that turn-on occurred at almost the same region, whether it was triggered by breakover or by dv/dt. This area coincided with the final holding position in the turn-off process. The di/dt capability of the thyristor was measured. It was found that the capabilities were almost the same for the three triggering methods. The destruction temperature in the di/dt test was estimated from the area of the burn-out spots and the energy dissipation."
"The capability of gate-triggered thyristors to withstand steep wavefront, high-current pulses (i.e., di/dt capability) is a function of both junction temperature and frequency of operation. Localized internal heating occurs during turn-on and may lead to thermal runaway. The conditions required for this to occur have been determined by destructively testing many devices. The initial conducting area of a thyristor largely determines di/dt capability, which is not necessarily related to the size of the device but is a function of the design of the gate region. Gate drive is very important for determining the di/dt capability of a thyristor having a conventional gate design. Two devices which have been designed to increase the initial conducting area are discussed. One of these devices, if improperly designed, can lose its effectiveness with high gate drive. This characteristic can be studied by observing the reverse recovery current immediately following short forward current pulses."
"This paper describes the bidirectional thyristor commutation effect which involves the rate at which off-state voltage can be applied following current flow. This effect is contrasted to the circuit commutated turn-off time effect associated with semiconductor controlled rectifiers. To help describe the commutation effect in bidirectional devices, two common circuit applications are discussed. A test method is introduced for characterizing the commutation behavior as a function of all operating conditions. A great deal of quantitative information about the commutation effect is presented for a typical medium current bidirectional triode thyristor."
"A simple unified charge model applicable to both unsaturated and saturated p-n-p-n dynamic behavior is analyzed. Expressions are obtained for three important dynamic conditions: di/dt prior to saturation, voltage drop during turn-on, and reverse current during recovery. Comparison with measurement shows that interdigitated gate p-n-p-n devices match one-dimensional turn-on theory and closely approximate the behavior of p-i-n rectifiers under similar pulsed conditiom. The major analytical simplifications of the one-dimensional theory are examined in the Appendixes. The limitations imposed by these simplifications can be avoided by use of numerical integration techniques."
"The present review gives an account of a number of investigations that have been recently carried out in the Semiconductor Laboratory Pretzfeld, Siemens AG. The switching processes in power rectifiers from the forward into the reverse state differ greatly from the corresponding process predicted by low-level theory. This result is caused not only by the fact that the conditions are different for high injection, but in addition, the sweeping out of the charge carriers takes place from two sides, owing to the nearly uniform concentration distribution in the forward state. Because of the unequal electron and hole mobilities, the impurity distribution on the side of the p contact is of much greater importance than at the n contact; if there is no p-n junction on this more important side, then the stored change can be swept out without much voltage buildup (example: rectifiers from uniformly doped p material). If, on the other hand, a p-n junction lies before the p contact (example: rectifiers from uniformly doped n material) then tbe reverse recovery current decays soon but slowly, and the switching process takes a longer time. This fact also contributes to the relatively long turn-off time of the thyristors."
"In this paper a survey is presented of the means that can be applied to the suppression of voltage transients that can affect the reliability of equipment and systems employing semiconductor devices. Consideration is given to some of the ways transients are generated, their duration and magnitudes, and the approach taken in the military standard MIL-STD-704 in confining the power supply characteristics within definite limits which must be tolerated by the utilization equipment. Emphasis is placed on the various techniques--their advantages and limitations--that can be applied in suppressing transients generated from 28-volt dc power supplies. In addition, various device approaches used to limit voltage transients to rectifier diodes are also presented."
"The power absorption capability and high-current characteristics of silicon high-voltage punch-through structures were investigated. Impact ionization was observed in the devices using 100- and 75-ohmċcm base material. The transient power absorption capability of these structures was found to be less temperature-dependent than that of avalanche devices. With proper surface contouring, a power absorption capability of 48 kW/cm2at 10 µs was achieved at a junction temperature of 26°C and 38 kW at 200°C for devices made of 350-ohmċcm base material."
"A new form of the basic equation for the I-V characteristics of a generalized p-n-p-n device is derived. Approximations are then introduced to obtain a simplified basic equation in which all current-dependent terms appear on one side of the equation and all voltage-dependent terms on the other. A graphical technique for solving the simplified device equation is then described and used to develop and illuminate the family resemblance among a large number of related p-n junction devices; viz., the p-n junction diode, the p-n-p diode, the p-n-p transistor, the p-n-p-n diode, and the p-n-p-n triode."
"The concentration of injected carriers is large compared with the impurity doping concentration in the base region of a power transistor operating at high level. Carrier concentration and characteristics of a two-dimensional transistor model are calculated for this case. Emitter and base contacts are in the form of strips. Most of the injected emitter current reaches the collector while the remainder recombines in the slightly doped base region under the emitter, resulting in a current in the highly doped base contact. In addition, a recombination current generated in the base region under the base contact is added to this base current and results in a decrease of current gain. In order to analyze the base recombination current, a special transistor with divided collector contacts was prepared. In this way, the collector current due to the region under the emitter contact can be separated from the collector current due to the region under the base contact. The presented theory could be verified. Additional corrections are necessary, however, in the direction of the current in the slightly doped base region."
"It is shown that the saturation characteristic of high-voltage NPvN transistors can only be explained by a lowering of the v-layer resistance due to conductivity modulation. A semi-quantitative model is developed which explains this modified saturation region. An experimental method of isolating the resistive portion of the external collector-base (CB) voltage is presented. The results verify that the CB junction may be forward-biased even when the characteristic seemingly indicates that the transistor is unsaturated. Data is also presented showing how variations in collector resistivity and thickness alter the saturation region."
"The potential and carrier distributions of a p-n-p-n device in the ON state are measured by electrical and optical probing techniques. The measurements are compared with numerical calculations of the potential and carrier distributions and the current-voltage characteristics as a function of device temperature. The calculations are based upon an analysis of the p-n-p-n device at high current densities using an abrupt junction model and including the effects of carrier-carrier scattering, conductivity modulation, and the dependence of emitter efficiency upon current density. The conditions under which the p-n-p-n device may be approximated by a p-n-n+device are also considered. The range of applicability of the results includes all ON currents of practical interest in a p-n-p-n device."
"A theory on the forward V-I characteristics of P+-P-N-P-N+thyristors is proposed. Taking the minority carrier lifetime in the base region into account, the effects of the device structures on the forward characteristics are discussed on the following three cases: 1) low-level operation, 2) middle-level operation, and 3) high-level operation. At middle-level operation, the term that is independent of current and, at high-level operation, the √I dependency, appears in the forward characteristics of the thyristors. The general theory is illustrated by reference to experimental results on silicon-controlled rectifiers."
"A concentric ring junction has been devised to prevent surface breakdown of a planar junction. By properly choosing the spacing between the main junction and the ring, the ring junction acts like a voltage divider at the surface. In addition, the ring junction minimizes the effect of the junction curvature at the periphery of a planar junction. Devices fabricated with three such rings showed breakdown voltages of 2000 and 3200 volts on n-type silicon with impurity concentrations 6.5 × 1013and 2.5 × 1013cm-3, respectively. That the structure operated as proposed was corroborated by comparison of the reverse leakage current with a one parameter fit to a theoretically calculated current obtained from the approximated volume of the space charge regions. These results together with the photo response measurements indicate that the field-limiting ring junction can be used successfully to obtain high-voltage planar p-n junctions."
"The fabrication and characteristics of a high-power GaAs injection laser for room-temperature operation are described. A single laser emits 70 watts peak power from one facet at four times the threshold current. The diodes are fabricated from epitaxial wafers prepared by the solution-growth process. Scaling from work on low-power (7-watt) units to this high power has been accomplished by increasing the junction width, which requires general improvement in the crystalline quality and in the control of the doping. Data are given on the effect of doping density, crystal quality, and imperfections near the junction, as well as junction width. The reduced yield in high-power diodes, of which only one-third from a single batch give the desired output, is associated with filamentary lasing and with super-radiant walk-off modes, neither of which is under full control. Preliminary data on life tests show that long-lived units can be made, but that apparently identical units from the same batch show wide variations in the rate of degradation."
"The coherent amplification properties of antireflective coated GaAs diodes are considered for application to a phased array amplification scheme. The developmemt and design characteristics of a ten-element array system are discussed. An experimental diode array possessing good electrical and spectral match among diodes and excellent thermal dissipation is shown to provide optical gains, for main master laser modes, of at least 13 dB per array diode after coating. Temporal and spatial coherence within a GaAs laser spot, approximately 35 µ wide, is found to be adequate for array amplification purposes. The effects of array amplification on an incident coherent beam are evaluated by comparing predicted fringe patterns with observed interference patterns. The coherence of the incident beam is shown to be preserved during the amplification process."
"Power semiconductors--transistors, thyristors, and rectifiers --all have found widespread application in the three major consumer markets --automotive, entertainment, appliance. These devices have been developed to provide low-cost solutions to existing needs. In the mid-1950's, the germanium power transistor, as used in hybrid auto radio sets, was the sole power semiconductor represented in a consumer application. It was soon joined by rectifiers designed for power supply use in line operated television sets. Near the turn of the decade, the development of press-fit alternator rectifiers created a completely new consumer use. Today these devices in only slightly modified form are used for the original application as well as a host of allied uses. Recently, power thyristors expressly designed for appliance controls have opened up entirely new concepts in this market area. Upwards of 200 million [1] power semiconductors are used in consumer applications each year. As technology progresses, indications are that this market will more than double in the next few years as TRIAC [2], [3] and QUADRAC open new appliance markets, as high-voltage power transistors phase into television, and as alternator regulators switch to large area integrated circuitry. Whether the market is automotive, appliance, or entertainment, and whether the application is audio, phase control, or switching, the penetration of power semiconductors into consumer use has followed a history of applying advanced device technology directly to a market opportunity. The successes have always been the result of providing lower costs, a better way, or in adding value to the consumer product. This paper will discuss the features of consumer power devices and their applications that make them different from their predecessors."
"Applications for high-power thyristors continue to increase at an accelerated pace. The circuit designer (user) and device designer (producer) have attained a high degree of maturity in their respective areas of interest and in the joint effort of mating the device to this application for optimum performance. It is the purpose of this paper to describe and analyze recent developments in the device encapsulation design area which are directed to tailoring thyristors for high-power, multikilovolt service. The use of conventional thyristors in an application requiring, e.g., 100 kilovolts holdoff capability, presents a number of problems. The physical layout alone is quite extensive, considering perhaps 100 devices plus balancing networks, anode reactors, firing circuitry, etc. Also, one must properly cool the aggregate of units which may be dissipating on the order of 25 kilowatts. A thyristor encapsulation and stack module specifically designed to fulfill the requirements of high-power multikilovolt applications are described. Compression bonded encapsulation and integral heat sink design principles are employed. Stack modules for forced air cooling and oil cooling applications are reviewed. Particular note is made of a radar modulator application and, more recently, the projected use in high-voltage dc transmission line converter stations. Mechanical and thermal design features are emphasized in the review. Potential application of the devices in conventional bridge-type arrays is explored."
"The application of semiconductor rectifiers and thyristors in the control of power to ac, dc, and diesel powered locomotives in the French National Railways is presented. A total of 260 locomotives have been equipped with 60 000 semiconductor rectifiers since 1959. The failure rate of these rectifiers has been 0.12 percent or 1.35 percent for every million kilometers traveled. Four locomotives have been equipped with thyristor control circuits and it is anticipated that all future single-phase ac powered locomotives will use thyristors."
"For the induction heating of metals it is advisable in many cases to use higher frequencies. So far, the input required has been supplied by rotary converters or high-vacuum tubes. Recently, static converters with thyristors have also been employed. Equipment already installed is described, and details are given on the considerations leading to the solution adopted."
"High power thyristors are employed with a battery to provide constant voltage to a quarter-megawatt dc load for 1/2 second, in order to operate a sonar transducer at a pulse repetition period of 10 seconds. Despite the heavy pulse power and the low duty cycle, the power drawn from the mains is maintained almost constant at approximately 12.5 kilowatts, with less than 5 percent variation over a power pulse cycle. The system utilizes a battery for energy storage, in conjunction with a phase-controled ac line to charge the battery at essentially constant current. The availability of high power thyristors for a high frequency inverter-type dc to dc converter makes the entire concept feasible, as the battery voltage drops substantially during the pulse. The inverter is pulse-width-controlled during the output power pulse, to maintain the dc output voltage constant within 3 percent during the power pulse. Basic circuits are described for providing the high peak power to the load, and maintaining virtually constant average power drain from the source over the entire cycle."
"For devices to be useful, they must be applied in circuits. Expensive power transistors can be destroyed by undesired oscillations and instabilities. Furthermore, troublesome unwanted spurious frequencies must be avoided. The problem of stability is complicated by the fact that a class C amplifier represents the superposition of a linear class A amplifier and a nonlinear instabilities can occur. This paper discusses different physical transistor effects which could be responsible for such instabilities. It tries to clarify several aspects of the stability problem in RF power amplifiers. It is shown that this problem can be solved, at least to a certain extent, if one increases the stability of a hypothetical superimposed \"class A\" amplifier in the critical frequency range F1< F < F2. In this region the transistor is potentially unstable due to internal feedback. The upper limit F2of the critical frequency range is given approximately by one-half the transconductance cutoff frequency. F2may be much lower than the operating carrier frequency. Rules for the design of stable RF power amplifiers are given."
"The rapidly advancing integrated circuit technology is making practical the inclusion of increasing numbers of circuit functions in small individual packages. In power applications, the most significant effect will be the reduced cost of regulating small amounts of power. The magnitude of cost reduction for high-performance regulators at fractional watt power levels is great enough to open new possibilities for decentralizing the power regulation function. This paper describes a versatile high-performance integrated voltage regulator circuit. This integrated circuit features excellent decoupling from the power source; insensitivity to load and temperature variations; and provision for switching, off power to the load. Particular aspects of the integrated circuit development discussed include: temperature compensation, stability, noise, and close tolerance on output voltage. By adding external compnents, the integrated circuit can be used to perform a number of operational functions. Examples are shown of possible applications of the integrated circuit to the control of larger devices for regulating power at high levels and as a voltage sensor for actuating various alarm and protection functions."
"Transient voltage protection for transistors, integrated circuits, and SCR's can be achieved by using many matched Zener diodes paralleled on a common heat sink. The assembly reacts instantaneously and limits the voltage to a pre-determined value. It does not introduce extraneous noise into the circuit and it is immediately operational after the transient is gone."
"Experimental data have been obtained which verify predictions of Sze and Gibbons that the avalanche breakdown voltage of linearly graded junctions in silicon is related to the impurity gradient at the junction by a 2/5 power law. Diodes have been fabricated using planar technology in n-type silicon covering a resistivity range of 0.03-240 Ωċcm, with breakdown voltages in the range of 7 to 1500 volts. Experimental and theoretical results agreed to within ±5 percent."
"Although the current density distribution under an emitter finger has been theoretically determined by many authors, the calculations have never been experimentally verified. This letter presents a method of verification by comparing the surface temperature distributions predicted by those current distributions to those measured by an infrared radiometric microscope."
"The application of thyristors to inverters is, in general, difficult. Rapid change of voltage and current requires high component tolerance. Thyristor turn-off time is most important. High forward current and reverse voltage provide considerable component stress. Static inverters are enjoying great popularity as frequency changers, motor speed controls, standby systems, phase changers, \"direct voltage transformers,\" and in direct voltage transmission systems. A noticeable trend in these applications is the increasing power capability of the inverter. The use of higher operating potentials provides a means of handling higher power without using components having extremely large effective areas. Some applications, notably direct power transmission, are feasible only at operating potentials in the kilovolt range. Above about 400 volts, series strings are necessary. Combining a difficult application and cascaded components results in a design problem for both the component and the system designer. In addition to the normal inverter application troubles is the necessity for dynamic voltage balance. Such mundane problems as gate drive isolation and insulation prove to be formidable. The application of series thyristor strings in an oil-cooled inverter operating at 4000 direct volts is described. System design solutions to component limitations are also discussed."
"Measurements of turn-on voltage VTOon large-area semiconductor controlled rectifiers (SCR's), some having one gate and others having two gates spaced 90 degrees apart, confirm earlier findings that current spreads at approximately 0.1 mm per microsecond. Dual gate units turned completely on in significantly less time and exhibited higher di/dt capability."
"The conductivity level of a ZnO layer is maintained for long periods by the field-effect action of a trapped negative surface charge, and this charge may be \"set\" optically. Using a ZnO layer to control an electroluminescent layer, transient input images can be displayed for long periods and erased at will."
"A two-port magnetoacoustic delay line, for operation at L-band and room temperature, is described utilizing a YIG-YAG-YIG structure with optical contact bonds. Comparisons in performance are drawn with the arrangement employing a YIG rod and YAG quarter-wave plates for circular polarization reversal."
"The described superconductive storage cell offers a simple geometry with only two lines and an operating range great enough for application in a word-organized continuous film store."
"Charge storage in MNS capacitors is presented as a function of time with temperature as a parameter. Activation energies for shifts of flat-band voltage are found to be 0.02 eV and 0.1 eV for two samples that have different deposition parameters."
"In general, Floquet's theorem cannot be used to solve for the fields of periodic structures when excited by aperiodic sources. However, the Fourier transform of the fields obeys Floquet's theorem with respect to the source coordinates. This property and reciprocity is used to expand the Fourier transform in a very useful form."
"An integral of the type which commonly occurs in radiation theory is evaluated by the method of steepest descent to optain a well-known asymptotic expansion. The coefficients of the first three terms of this expansion are given in terms of functions and derivatives of functions which appear in the integrand; the coefficient of the third term does not appear to have been given previously."
"The conductivity of high-mobility n-InSb at 35 GHz and 77°K is higher perpendicular than parallel to a dc electric field at least between 25 V/cm and 150 V/cm. This result, which can be explained by the deviations from Ohm's law, contradicts previous publications."
"Linearized perturbation analysis provides a method for establishing the stability properties of neuristor waveforms. A dynamic steady-state waveform on an RC line with nonlinear shunt conductance is shown to be stable. Solutions of the linearized perturbation problem may be used to solve the exact nonlinear problem."
"Electric fields E were applied transverse to helicon wave propagation. For E < 100 V/cm an increase of the transmitted helicon reveals an increase of mobility. For E > 100 V/cm an abrupt decrease and a shift of the volume resonance indicates a decrease of mobility and increase of carrier density due to transverse breakdown."
"A common error encountered when decimal numbers are handled by humans is the transposition of two adjacent digits. The coding scheme described here will protect a decimal number of arbitrary length against a single transposition error involving two adjacent digits, some multiple transposition errors, and some substitution errors."
"A solid-state sandwich composed of a capacitor-InSb diode detector-GaAsP diode emitter is proposed and demonstrated for efficiently converting infrared signals of wavelengths to 5.3 µ into visible 0.6- to 0.7-µ radiation. The device integrates the low-level incident radiation and delivers it to the emitter as high-current pulses."
"A general formula is presented for the mean radar cross section, σ-, of long, thin, straight, cylindrical metallic wire of finite length, radius, and conductivity at radar frequency f. Curves of σ-versus f for bismuth (poor conductor) and for perfectly conducting wires, having length 3.14 meters (10 feet) and radius 0.0127 cm (5 mils), illustrate the dependence of σ-on conductivity."
"A Q-spoiled YAG laser system was used to switch a high-voltage spark gap at rates up to 50 pps with jitter of approximately 1 ns."
"Some basic upper and lower bounds for the power consumption in arbitrary passive resistive n-ports under bouded applied inputs are derived."
"It is shown that under certain conditions, Z-transform theory can be applied to simplify analysis and synthesis of unequally spaced antenna arrays. The approach provides significant advantages over other techniques since the method yields closed-form expressions for array factors that are otherwise often cumbersome and difficult to work with analytically. The method is useful for both broadside and endfire arrays and allows many of the results originally derived for equally spaced arrays to be applied."
"A nonlinear tunnel diode amplifier output is found approximately. It contains a pair of false images, one due to the nonlinear characteristic, that can cause significant degradation."
"A Twin-T resistance-capacitance null network is obtained, such that it has the maximum selectivity possible and also possesses the property of maximum open-circuit input impedance z11and short-circuit output admittance y22."
"The limitation imposed by the film resolution (N) on the size of a hologram, the Rayleigh resolution criterion, and the hologram's ability to resolve the interference patterns are discussed. It is shown, for configurations with a plane wave or point source and specified λ (wavelength), that all the interference patterns recorded on the film will be resolved if Nλ = 2."
"This letter analyzes the increase in mixer conversion loss in the presence of a strong input signal. A method is presented for the prediction of gain saturation in an exponential resistive diode mixer for any given local-oscillator power."
"A basic link is established between the reciprocity theorem of electrical engineering and the self-adjoint linear operators over an inner product space. The central theorem of the letter suggests a deeper and broader understanding of reciprocity."
"Extremely high bandwidth requirements for holographic data transmission make application of holograph undesirable for many practical systems, such as television. A technique which reduces this required bandwidth while maintaining the usual and desirable large viewing angles is presented."
"The problem of finding the efficiency of an overdriven varactor tripler is considered. A diode model is assumed for which the diode resistance is constant and is equal in both the forward and reverse regions."
"Effects of charge storage on the response of a silicon-controlled rectifier (SCR) to a sinusoidal current and on the efficiency of the SCR circuit are analyzed. The frequency response of the SCR is characterized in terms of a time constant τFand the frequency ω."
"High-power high-speed silicon transistors were fabricated on a single wafer using a double-epitaxial single-diffused technique. An N-collector region was deposited on an N+substrate material. The base region was also formed epitaxially by depositing, in situ, a P+layer on the top of the collector region; and the emitter region was formed by diffusion. The transistors were found to have a collector current (Ic) capability of 150 A with a total switching time of 2 µs."
"This letter presents a method for obtaining the probability density of light energy p(ε) from a knowledge of the probability distribution of photoelectrons P(n). It is shown that if p(ε) is expanded in an infinite series of orthonormal Laguerre functions, then the coefficients of the Laguerre functions are simply linear combinations of P(n). Examples are presented."
"The firing sensitivity of a thyristor depends on two parameters: 1) the response time τ of the thyristor, 2) the gate-to-cathode resistance. Using this new notion of response time, the \"rate effect\" capability is evaluated."
"A Gunn-effect diode (n-GaAs) was biased at the post-threshold conditions and operated simultaneously as an oscillator and a mixer. The oscillation frequency was 9.98 GHz. An input signal at 600 MHz was converted to one at 9.38 GHz with gain of -3∼ + 6.5 dB."
"Two Rieke diagrams are presented for typical avalanche diodes at 10.859 and 8.217 GHz. Four photographs of the output spectrum are also included to show noise characteristics as a function of load. The noise of the output spectra is greatest where the gradient of the frequency-pulling contours is large and the noise is least where the gradient of the frequency-pulling contours is small."
"Hamilton's principle for the linear piezoelectric continuum is presented and is shown to yield the well-established differential equations and boundary conditions of the linear theory. The Lagrange density for the piezoelectric case is shown to be the kinetic energy minus the electric enthalpy, rather than the kinetic energy minus the internal energy as in the purely elastic case. The possible application of the variational principle in obtaining approximate solutions to both homogeneous and inhomogeneous piezoelectric boundary value problems is discussed."
"The fact that variational principles are not necessarily unique can be of practical significance when formulating approximation techniques. This result, which is particularly relevant where complicated boundary conditions exist, is pointed out here for the case of piezoelectric media problems."
"This letter deals with propagation transverse to the magnetostatic field of coupled electromagnetic and electroacoustic waves in a horizontally stratified, horizontally magnetized compressible electron plasma. Vertical electrostatic and gravitational fields are allowed for. Some first-order coupled wave equations are derived and propagation constants of characteristic waves are obtained."
"Curves are presented for the sequential detection of slowly fading and constant cross section radar targets. These results assume the use of a biased, square-law detector and were obtained by means of a digital computer simulation."
"Comments are made pertinent to the recent letter of Schilling and Smith regarding the threshold phenomena in the phase-locked loops. The remarks are based on experimental data and theoretical analysis."
"A transformation has been introduced whereby an LC-transmission line problem may be converted to that of an rc-line problem or vice-versa. This transformation is used to derive equivalent circuits for an exponential rc-line from those of an LC-line."
"The wandering of the laser beam causes a fading effect at the receiving terminal. A simple model is discussed to investigate the probability distribution of the power intercepted by a circular aperture."
"The optically read ferroelectric memory described utilizes nondestructive optical reading made possible by the unique switching and optical properties of single-crystal ferroelectric bismuth titanate (Bi4Ti3O12). The use of known photoconductor access techniques for the writing operation in conjunction with Bi4Ti3O12crystals provides a completely optically accessed ferroelectric memory."
"The bistable light gate described utilizes ferroelectric domain switching in Bi4Ti3O12single crystals. Switching speeds in the order of 1 µs are readily obtainable."
"Previously published experimental data on operation above twice the Gunn threshold is compared to the characteristics of the LSA mode. Conclusions are reached as to the conditions required for LSA generation during a self-modulation cycle. A set of experiments is described which validates the conclusions reached."
"An automatic impedance plotter is described and demonstrated, which allows the display of instantaneous complex impedances with respect to time for fully driven microwave diodes. The drive signal, which may be pulsed or CW, has been choosen sufficiently high in frequency that the impedance display reflects effects like charge storage, leading to hysteresis and negative resistance."
"The author of the above-named work has called the following to the attention of the Editor: in the first term of (1), page 600, absolute value signs should replace the parenthesis. In the last term of (3), page 600, the parentheses should close after v."
"Notice of Change in Direction of Radiated Power fromN BS Radio Station WWVH, Mad, Hawaii and Notice of No Change in Phase of Seconds Pulses from NBS Radio station WWVB; No Change in Phase of Time Pnlses from NBS Radio Stations WWV and WWVH on August 1, 1967; and Monthly Fractional Frequency Offsets and Time Deviations for NBS Radio Stations WWV, WWVH, WWVL, and WWVB."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"Provides an overview of the technical articles and features presented in this issue."
"The purpose of this paper is to introduce the reader to some of the fundamental hardware and software aspects of typical CRT display consoles. Techniques for accomplishing display refresh are explained. The evolution of the CRT controller, from a device which simply includes a pair of digital-to-analog converters to a system which is a rather sophisticated, special-purpose hybrid processor (including analog function generators and digital control logic), is developed. Means by which a user generates display processor interrupts, particularly those associated with graphic input devices, are described. The use of electronic \"pens\" for user interaction with a display is then explained. Finally, the software structure for a typical graphic processor is discussed from a functional point of view. The linkage between a high-level symbolic picture description and the CRT \"machine language\" display file, via a set of generation subroutines, is described. The calling of picture modification programs by an interrupt analysis routine is also explained. Reasons for the need of a linked-list data structure are presented."
"In the conventional treatment of traveling waves on lossless lines, inductance and capacitance per unit length of line are used. Such treatment results in the usual concept of surge impedance and only certain aspects propagate with the velocity of light. The usual concepts of inductance and capacitance are defined in terms of their steady-state values. In the present paper, the treatment follows from electric field concepts in which the propagational time delays are taken into consideration through the use of retarded potentials. The current that flows is determined when a unit EMF is suddenly inserted in series in an infinitely long isolated conductor of zero resistance. The current equals the transient surge admittance and its reciprocal is the transient surge impedance. The surge impedance increases with time in a determinable manner from a very small value. When such a conductor forms only the connecting leads to a pair of infinitely long parallel conductors, the surge impedance approaches the conventional value for the parallel lines."
"This paper presents a new linear, reciprocal, active two-port network element called a rotator, of which there are three types: an R- rotator, an L-rotator, and a C-rotator. They have the unique property that whenever a nonlinear resistor, inductor, or capacitor is connected to one port of an R-, L-, or C-rotator, respectively, the resulting two-terminal network behaves as a new resistor, inductor, or capacitor whose characteristic curve is that of the original resistor, inductor, or capacitor, rotated by a prescribed angle about the origin. The rotator is realizable by either a π-network or a T-network of linear resistances, inductances, or capacitances. It can also be realized by a balanced lattice network of linear elements. Operational laboratory models are reported, and experimental data agree remarkably well with theoretical predictions. The sensitivity, power rating, and stability performances of rotators are considered in detail in this paper, and practical stability criteria are given. They are shown to be indispensable building blocks for realizing multivalued elements, and some potential applications are described."
"A digital measurement method for narrowband noise power is described and analyzed in the case of flat spectrum Gaussian noise. Noise power is measured by counting the number of times the noise voltage crosses upwards a fixed voltage level. The method should be useful in noise-figure measurements, and by applying it a digital radiometer can be constructed. This digital radiometer has the same theoretical (about 9 percent worse than the best possible radiometer) as conventional radiometers now in use but offers several advantages in comparison with them. A switched digital radiometer is somewhat more sensitive to large gain variations than a normal switched radiometer."
"The standing-wave method was used to measure the radar cross section σ of a flat piece of ground on which stood a single tree. Measurements were made at 26 MHz at angles of elevation γ up to 22.5 degrees, by raising the transmitting antenna with a balloon and moving the receiving probe along the transmitter-target line by means of ropes. For horizontal polarization, σ was a smoothly increasing function of γ. For \"vertical\" polarization (polarization parallel to the plane of incidence on the ground), σ increased rapidly up to 10 degrees, then became fairly constant with a value of 6 m2. The sudden change in the slope of σ(γ) is the knee effect suggested by previous observations. The Brewster angle was 14 degrees, consistent with a theory that the knee should occur a few degrees below the Brewster angle. Below 15 degrees, the cross section for vertical polarization was greater than that for horizontal polarization by as much as 30 dB."
"An experimental television camera incorporating a completely integrated self-scanned solid-state image sensor has been built. The integrated sensor includes a photosensitive array having 32 400 picture elements, two 180-stage shift register scan generators and associated video coupling transistors. This large-scale integration of more than 100 000 components was carried out in the laboratory entirely by evaporated thin-film techniques. Each element of the photosensitive array comprises one or two photoconductors of CdS or CdS-CASe mixture, each in series with a diode. The 180-stage scan generators utilize 540 CdSe TWF's deposited upon a glass snbstrate. Center-to-center spacing of elements in the array and in the scan generators is 2 mils. The array is scanned at conventional television scan rates permitting the picture to be displayed upon a commercial television receiver. The camera is connected to the receiver either through a cable or through a UHF link with camera and transmitter powered by a self-contained battery. Camera circuits other than the integrated sensor employ conventional transistors and integrated components. Progress toward the development of an improved sensor having more picture elements is outlined."
"The optical characteristics of a pulse compression system which makes use of Brillouin scattering in the Bragg limit have been studied. If one makes use of a diffraction-limited laser source of illumination, it is found that the correct system geometry results in a bandwidth which is as large as simple diffraction theory predicts. The study shows that the bandwidth of the system, for maximum signal, is given by one-half the total frequency sweep of the incident chirped pulse and that the expected dynamic range of signals that the system can reproduce is of the order of 104. The analysis also indicates how accurately certain system parameters must be controlled to achieve the maximum compressed pulse signal. These parameters include the angle of propagation of the sound pulse, the slit position of the light detector for the time compressed pulse, and the tolerance of the system to undesirable variations or fluctuations in the prescribed ideal frequency sweep of the acoustic wave."
"A simple formula giving the growth rate of high-field domains in bulk semiconductors is derived. When the diffusion constant is small, it reduces to an extension of the equal-area law discussed by Butcher et al."
"The study of propagation in lossless waveguides containing lossless magnetized ferrite leads to a paradox: energy is not conserved. This letter shows that the lossless ferrite model used is not physically realizable, as it violates the principle of causality, and should not be used in general theoretical developments."
"Silicon avalanche diodes have been mounted on diamond to achieve a continuous power density more than twice that achieved on copper. A pair of parallel connected wafers oa a single sample of diamond produced 4.7 watts of CW power at 13.3 GHz using a room temperature heat sink."
"A new pulse regenerating circuit is developed, which has no reflection and transmits pulses unidirectionally, when it is inserted in a transmission line. The circuit consists of a pair of Esaki diodes connected face to face and a transformer."
"In a practical variable frequency crystal oscillator the difference between the operating and series resonant frequencies is always smaller than fp- fs. This limitation can be overcome by a negative capacitance realized using a NIC which does not seriously degrade overall stability."
"The first-order coupled differential equation for waves in gyrotropic inhomogeneous warm magnetoplasmas are derived for the case where the plasma parameters N0(z), T0(z), v(z), and H0(z) vary in the z direction only. In this form they are well sited for solution on a digital computer by the Runge-Kutta method."
"A mechanical cavity of coaxial or waveguide type is generally used as a resonator of a Gunn oscillator. Reported here is the use of a resonator consisting of a ferrimagnetic sample instead of the mechanical cavity to obtain the electrically tunable Gun oscillator. The coupling between the Gunn diode and the the ferrimagnetic resonator was experimentally observed and oscillation frequency from 3.2 GHz to 2.4 GHz was obtained proportionally to the applied dc magnetic field."
"An acoustic hologram is constructed using a sound wave (20 kHz), scanning the acoustic fields by a microphone, and lighting a lamp by amplified electrical signals from the microphone. The original image is reconstructed to illuminate the sound wave hologram of reduced size by the laser light (6328 Å) and observed by a microscope."
"A simple circuit is proposed for amplifiers that consist of cascaded negative-conductance stages. A biasing scheme is proposed that utilizes the incremental resistance of the active devices to reduce series resistance in the bias circuit. An experimental two-stage tunnel-diode amplifier of this design provides voltage gain of 10 dB ± 1 dB over a frequency range extending from below 200 Hz to above 25 MHz. The proposed circuit appears practical for design of monolithic circuits requiring broadband gain extending to gigahertz frequencies."
"A simple technique for linear phase approximation is illustrated. The approximation polynomial used is of the form Pn(s) = M(s) + kN(s), where M(s) and N(s) are even and odd polynomials with interlaced, and equally spaced, imaginary zeros. The influence of constant k is investigated, and it is shown that a proper selection of that constant leads to good approximation."
"The nonparametric rank order c1test is proposed and evaluated as a method for obtaining a quantitative, numerical measure of the degree of similarity existing between two radar cross section signatures as a function of aspect angle."
"A numerical calculation of the radiation transfer efficiency, performed on the basis of geometrical optics, is presented, wherein the reflectivity of chamber walls is considered. The high efficiency of the ellipsoidal pumping chamber is found experimentally and numerically to be achieved mostly by the use of filamentary light sources."
"The governing equations for electromagnetic fields in an anisotropic plasma imbedded in a moving dielectric medium are obtained. Examination of the wave and dispersion equations yields information on the elliptically or linearly polarized waves which may exist when the external magnetic field is parallel or perpendicular to the direction of motion, respectively."
"A highly accurate method is presented for determining TV scan pattern linearity using a dot pattern transparency. This technique allows a standard scan pattern to be compared with both the camera scan pattern and display raster. It displays the difference as moiré interference patterns."
"Photovoltage versus light intensity measurements, performed on high-resistivity CdS layers with Cu contacts, showed excellent agreement with a previously proposed model for the saturation of the photovoltage in the high-intensity region. This yields a new possibiliy of measuring the barrier voltage for CdS-metal contacts."
"In this letter a procedure is outlined for evaluating system performance indices of the form ∫0∞tn(d(t))2dt. The result is also valid for time functions with nonrational Laplace transforms; this is not true for methods based on Lyapunov theory."
"The pulse field effects of phosphors excited by cathode rays exhibit the enhancement effect and the quenching effect. The color variation of the output light from the cell made by mixing these phosphors was tested by using the electric field effect."
"A theorem concerning the existence of confidence intervals for estimation based on single observations is established. The theorem extends and completes a previously established result. It leads insight into some funadamental theoretical aspects of the nature of decision making."
"Two algorithms for computing the two-sided correlation function (correlogram) and several identities for the cross correlation of binary codes are developed. The basic theorem (The Product Rule) shows the correlogram of two binary codes, X * Y, to be the arithmetic product of Y and the mirror reversal of X, when the code symbols are ±1."
"When investigating noise in FM receivers, Frutiger approximated experimental and numerical data. The main results are here shown to agree with Rice's rigorous analysis as extended by this author. The same applies to the threshold location, expressed here by a simple, but general, formula."
"A latching T-circulator utilizing a bulk ferrite located inside the waveguide T-structure was fabricated and tested at a wavelength of 8 mm. Circuit arrangements for efficient testing are presented. The reverse attenuation and the reverse-to-forward attenuation ratio are approximately 20 dB and 13, respectively, at the present stage."
"Relations are derived defining the \"amplitude\" of the limit cycle. The derivation permits a simple approximation of the VA characteristic of the tunnel diode that corresponds to the measured characteristic with sufficient accuracy. Also presented are the part of the VA characteristic and the assumptions under which the stable, unstable, or semistable limit cycle may be realized."
"For coherent digital communication in a noisy environment, it may not be possible to provide a perfect phase reference. The consequence is a degradation from theoretical coherent performance. This letter derives the performance bounds for convolutional encoding and sequential decoding of binary antipodal signals with a noisy phase reference."
"A new method of synthesiziag a sine wave frequency divider (division by 2) with theoretically unlimited bandwidth is presented."
"It was expected that a Gunn oscillator whose electron concentration uniformly decreases from anode to cathode is voltage tunable. Oscillators in which the concentration gradient is maintained by temperature gradient were studied and wideband voltage tunability, similar to that of a tapered oscillator, was observed."
"An analogy is established between the minimization problems of software design based on decision tables and the problem of minimizing relay tree switching networks. The analogy facilitates the adoption of a large number of techniques developed for the design of computer hardware by the designers of computer software."
"An experiment is described in which two avalanche oscillators are frequency locked through signal injection but not phase locked. Shift in the relative phase of the microwave output of each oscillator can be accomplished electronically by bias current variation. Practical ranges of phase shift with small change in output power are shown to be possible."
"Digital computation of the field radiated by in-phase magnetic line sources on opposite sides of a perfectly conducting wedge is discussed. The sources are covered by finite wedges of lossy dielectric. Attention is given to the convergence of the computations."
"The well-known performance equations for the constant velocity MHD Faraday generator employing a fluid of constant conductivity are rewritten in terms of a general performance parameter Q. These equations are plotted for various constant values of Q in such a way as to make the resulting plot a general performance chart. From this chart general optimal operating conditions are deduced."
"A zero to 360° phase shift network having less than 1 percent change in amplitude with respect to phase and using two center tapped transformers with RC circuits and amplifiers is described. The same phase shift is realized using integrated circuit operational amplifiers to replace the audio transformers, thus reducing the size and weight."
"Two mathematical models of a multijunction transistor (i.e. those controlled by terminal voltages and terminal currents) are presented and the transfer relations between them are given."
"The optimum (minimum mean square error) linear time-invariant equalizer for PAM over a randomly selected noisy channel is specified. An example shows the trade-offs between local oscillator phase error, sampling time error, and excess bandwidth in the synchronous demodulation of passband pulses."
"An experimental study has been conducted to search for the electroacoustic wave which is excited by an antenna in a hot plasma. It was observed that an electroacoustic wave is excited when the average local plasma frequency in the antenna vicinity is near the antenna frequency. However, no electroacoustic wave is excited if the plasma frequency is sufficiently lower than the antenna frequency."
"The linearly tapered transmission line is very attractive as a matching section because it is the simplest and easiest to fabricate. It is shown that the high- and low-frequency behavior of the reflection coefficient is strongly frequency dependent."
"Van der Pol's nonlinear differential equation is formulated matrically for computer use, permitting amplitude and time scaling in an explicit and rational manner. The formulation, which is quite general, is employed to generate the solution and its derivatives on the matric computer, an analytic machine homeomorphic to matric mathematics."
"The random variable generated by adding two Gaussian variables may or may not have a Gaussian distribution. Also, the random variable generated by adding two non-Gaussian variables may or may not have a non-Gaussian distribution. Of several examples given, one illustrates how the sum may be Gaussian while the individual variables are not."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"Provides an overview of the technical articles and features presented in this issue."
"The fast Fourier transform is a computational tool which facilitates signal analysis such as power spectrum analysis and filter simulation by means of digital computers. It is a method for efficiently computing the discrete Fourier transform of a series of data samples (referred to as a time series). In this paper, the discrete Fourier transform of a time series is defined, some of its properties are discussed, the associated fast method (fast Fourier transform) for computing this transform is derived, and some of the computational aspects of the method are presented. Examples are included to demonstrate the concepts involved."
"The fast Fourier transform algorithm has a long and interesting history that has only recently been appreciated. In this paper, the contributions of many investigators are described and placed in historical perspective."
"The problem of estimating the errors arising in a variety of numerical operations involving bandlimited functions is considered. The errors are viewed as responses of suitably created systems, and the analysis is based on the evaluation of the maximum response of these systems in terms of the energy or power of their input. The investigation includes deterministic and random signals, and it is extended to two-dimensional functions and Hankel transforms. Finally, the results are related to the uncertainty principle in one and two variables."
"A theoretical and experimental evaluation of optical communications systems capable of microwave bandwidths is presented. The optical transmitter, modulator, and detection techniques are discussed with respect to both direct-detection and optical heterodyne receivers, and experiments in a nonlaboratory environment are described. At the high optical power levels or photon rates which are fundamentally necessary for gigahertz instantaneous bandwidths, it is found that signal-shot-noise limited operation may be obtained with new wideband photodetectors incorporating internal gain. Direct-detection receivers are thus generally superior to heterodyne receivers in these systems. A comparison is made of the relative merits of alternative systems and their dependence on various parameters such as information capacity, range, and background illumination."
"The sampling theorem for bandlimited signals of finite energy can be interpreted in two ways, associated with the names of Nyquist and Shannon. 1) Every signal of finite energy and bandwidth W Hz may be completely recovered, in a simple way, from a knowledge of its samples taken at the rate of 2W per second (Nyquist rate). Moreover, the recovery is stable, in the sense that a small error in reading sample values produces only a correspondingly small error in the recovered signal. 2) Every square-summable sequence of numbers may be transmitted at the rate of 2W per second over an ideal channel of bandwidth W Hz, by being represented as the samples of an easily constructed band-limited signal of finite energy. The practical importance of these results, together with the restrictions implicit in the sampling theorem, make it natural to ask whether the above rates cannot be improved, by passing to differently chosen sampling instants, or to bandpass or multiband (rather than bandlimited) signals, or to more elaborate computations. In this paper we draw a distinction between reconstructing a signal from its samples, and doing so in a stable way, and we argue that only stable sampling is meaningful in practice. We then prove that: 1) stable sampling cannot be performed at a rate lower than the Nyquist, 2) data cannot be transmitted as samples at a rate higher than the Nyquist, regardless of the location of sampling instants, the nature of the set of frequencies which the signals occupy, or the method of construction. These conclusions apply not merely to finite-energy, but also to bounded, signals."
"A new video digital data compression technique, time-buffered coarse-fine (TBCF), is presented along with experimental results. This technique has the ability to produce high-quality video pictures with compression ratios, referenced to a 6-bit pulse code modulation (PCM), from 2-to-1 to greater than 20-to-1 depending on the subject complexity and the element accuracy required, with a 6-to-1 compression typical. This system uses a modified version of the coarse-fine compressor invented and implemented by the authors with additional processing of the data by noise recognition and removal circuitry and run-length coding. The coarse-fine system is briefly discussed followed by a detailed description of the time-buffered coarse-fine system operation. Time-buffered coarse-fine compressed pictures are then presented and analyzed."
"While ray-optical methods have been employed for the analysis of high-frequency radiation and scattering problems and also for the study of optical resonators, their use for description of guided modes has been less evident. This paper presents a systematic procedure whereby the asymptotic functional dependences and eigenvalues of modes in uniform and nonuniform guiding structures are deduced by purely ray-optical means, utilizing either the eiconal and transport equations of geometrical optics or a modal consistency argument. The method is illustrated first on the simple example of a homogeneous plane slab, and is then applied to various nonuniform waveguides including an angular sector, a more general taper of either parabolic or hyperbolic shape, and a guide filled with an axially inhomogeneous dielectric. The role of caustics in the latter configurations is emphasized, and stress is placed throughout on a physical interpretation of relevant concepts which retain their validity even under conditions more general than those considered at present."
"A definition is formulated for average time delay in a linear system having a nonlinear phase characteristic. The concept is based upon the determination of the time delay which minimizes the mean-square error between input and output signals."
"This paper describes a low-loss tunable dielectric resonator band bandpass filter for the frequency range 1 to 12 GHz. The filters are mechanically and/or magnetically tuned. Mode splitting, due to coupling between dimensional dielectric resonances with ferrimagnetic modes, and heat sinking techniques significantly improve the power-handling capabilities."
"Gyrators containing negative resistances produce complex poles only by means of Q-enhancement, in a manner quite similar to NIC circuits. Therefore, such structures are unsuitable for producing high stable Q. Improvement is possible by application of amplifying gyrators, but the best structures are those which desist from Q-enhancement."
"Moiré patterns are generated on a computer digital printout when a mathematical sampling grid is superimposed over a two-dimensional function to be plotted. The appearance of these Moiré effects in the computer-generated zone plates takes the form of additional zone-plate patterns if the incremental sampling grid is rectangular."
"This correlation as derived by experiment is discussed. The considered system is not in general thermodynamically closed and the parameters involved do not necessarily satisfy the required conditions of stationarity and ergodicity. Consequently, the correlation is moderate as compared to that which one obtains by using a more stationary radio parameter, i.e., the hourly medians of the received field. The nature of the used radio path, however, allows no definite conclusions to be drawn."
"A limitation on frequency of Gunn effect associated with the relaxation time for intervalley scattering of electrons in a small-signal approximation is described. The upper limit frequency is higher than the limit frequency associated with each relaxation time and increases with an electric field."
"The propagation constant and the general conditions for the existence of a quasi-TEM mode in ferrite-filled coaxial line are re-examined in view of recent results."
"It is shown that the Poynting vector representing the power flow per unit surface area in the polarization current model of moving plasma used in the Minkowski theory of moving media should be E × B/µ0and not E × H."
"Theoretical studies are made to investigate the effect of feed-point displacement (transverse to dipole axis) on the radiation resistance of a center fed half-wave dipole antenna. A mathematical expression is developed and the radiation resistance is calculated for various feed-point displacements using the numerical integration method."
"The criteria given by Loeb and by Belevitch for the stability of oscillations in nonlinear filtered circuits are compared. It is shown that for a single parallel RLC filter both criteria are equivalent, but that for more complicated filters the criterion of Loeb is only a necessary condition for stability."
"Compared to standard Verneuil ruby, Czochralski ruby shows a rather high inversion ratio when used as a microwave maser material in the 4-GHz range. This is in good agreement with the more pure spin-lattice relaxation behavior which was observed when testing this material."
"We consider a random communication channel that models, among other things, optical communication through turbulent atmosphere. We estimate signal amplitude with large apertures and show that as large an aperture as possible is best and that there exists a practically best finite transmitted amplitude."
"CW operation of an abrupt-junction p-n silicon avalanche diode has produced 370 mW at 36.5 GHz with 6 percent efficiency. Another unit produced 320 mW at 39 GHz with 7 percent efficiency. Higher efficiency with present diodes requires power densities exceeding 3 × 105W/cm2."
"Experimental results are reported which show that domain-nucleation control can easily be achieved by two neighboring small ohmic contacts on one surface of a GaAs sample and one large electrode on the opposite surface. This effect can be employed for logic-circuit applications, such as comparators, which are used in digital adders."
"Systems theory descriptions alternative to those already known are presented for transfer function matrices which are positive real. They are derived using the fact that the transpose of a positive real matrix is itself positive real."
"A phased array for transmission which uses feedback to adjust the phase of each element is described. The feedback corrects both phase and amplitude variations of all the active components associated with each transmitter. The phase shifting is accomplished at low power levels and hence there is no appreciable loss of power."
"A novel optical detector has been developed, consisting of a length of single-mode optical waveguide with a photodetector at the output. The device is sensitive to the spatial phase of an incident field, and is particularly well suited for null detection, and measurements requiring large dynamic range."
"The aim of this letter is to show how to synthesize with one transistor stage any RC all-pass whatever its order may be. This study extends a result by U. S. Ganguly."
"Phase locking of pulsed avalanche diode oscillators has been demonstrated. During the locking process, changes in phase between the locking signal and oscillator have been observed. These observations indicate that emission of identical pulses does not necessarily imply that the diode and locking frequencies are the same."
"This letter points out a generalized version of the inversion formula, together with other references pertaining to its application."
"Results are presented for the mutual admittance of a pair of slots in an infinite conducting plane which is covered by a dielectric layer and an impedance sheet."
"A design method is described in which properly designed λ/4 transmission line is used such that one varactor impedance is utilized to conjugately match that of another varactor at input frequency. Two such pairs are again connected by a properly designed transmission line such that they match each other at the second harmonic output frequency. Thus, a basic building block of four varactors without any external tuning circuit is obtained. Any number of these building blocks can be put together to obtain any desired output power."
"It is pointed out that the state-space representation for a linear RLC network with the independent sources of the network as components of the input vector does not always exist. The necessary and sufficient conditions on a network for such a representation to be possible are stated, and an example of an important class of networks not meeting these conditions is cited."
"A new method of constructing laser holograms is discussed wherein the only light used is that received directly from the object. Reconstruction is accomplished in the usual way. Long-distance holography is an immediate application."
"A method of analog circuit analysis is proposed that is based on the use of the transistor as its own dc model. Time-scaled carrier storage effects are simulated by capacitors that are driven, through operational amplifiers, by voltages that are proportional to terminal currents."
"Theoretical studies are made to predict the effect of feed points displaced transverse to the axis of a center fed dipole antenna. A mathematical expression to elucidate the effect of feed-point spacing is given."
"Read-type oscillations were observed in the low-current region, as well as uniform avalanche-type oscillations in the high-current region from the same silicon p-v-n diodes designed for varactors. The existence of the peak in electric field is considered as a reason for the former oscillation. Effects of the series resistance of the diode were experimentally clarified."
"A constant-amplitude phase-shift generator is described. It produces a sinusoidal signal of frequency f from a pulse train of frequency 6f. The phase of the output is linearly and continuously variable, and controlled by a shaft rotation. The phase-shift circuit is completely independent of frequency over the region of interest, except that a single capacitor may be chosen to produce an optimum waveform."
"It is shown that the chain matrix parmeters of a nonuniform transmission line are interrelated and that, knowing any one of them, the other three may be determined. It is also shown that the parameters obey differential equations corresponding to those of either the voltage or current of the line."
"A theoretical pattern recognition model is constructed to explain a experimental self-corrective character recognition scheme which was recently described."
"Presented is the observation of microwave frequency conversion due to parametric interaction between an incident extraordinary electromagnetic wave and a space-charge wave near the second cyclotron harmonic. The electrostatic mode is excited by the incident signal. It propagates across the magnetic field and is \"quantized\" because of boundary effects."
"A functional device with the logic operation of a half adder using optical coupling in a single unit of the injection laser was fabricated. The mechanism of the operation is described and the results at 77° are shown."
"The letter presents an RF method for determining the sheath thickness of a plane probe immersed in a plasma and biased with a dc voltage. Expressions are derived giving the sheath thickness in terms of the RF impedance of the probe for different regions of the V - iecharacteristic."
"Systematic correlation studies have recently been conducted on measured field-strength data with reference to meteorlogical parameters. Their results yield a possible method of predicting scatter-signal loss during periods of frontal disturbances."
"Necessary constraints useful in the stability test of linear discrete-time systems are introduced. These constraints, which are obtained from the coefficients of the characteristic polynomial, are also used to obtain information on the root distribution within the unit disk."
"It was assumed that a chromium-silicon monoxide film is composed of metal grains dispersed within a dielectric matrix. Therefore its electrical behavior was iterpreted according to the hypothesis that the charge transport takes place by tunnelig through the potential barriers between conducting islands."
"A novel method for fabricating very small metal-semiconductor contacts for high-frequency applications is described, together with results obtained by using this technique to produce extremely small Au-n-type GaAs Schottky barrier diodes."
"Notice of No Change in the Phase of Seconds pulses from NBS Radio Station WWVB and No Change in Phase of Time Pulses from NBS Radio Statim WWV and WWVH on October 1,167 and Monthly Fractional Frequency Offsets and Time Deviations for NBS Radio Stations WWV, WWVH, WWVL, and WWVB"
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"Provides an overview of the technical articles and features presented in this issue."
"In this tutorial paper, the influence of the computer not only on the modus operandi of circuit design, but also on network theory itself, is discussed. The topological properties of linear graphs are reviewed and a matrix-topological formulation of the network problem is described. In addition to the classical mesh, node, and cutset methods, a mixed method of analysis is described which is applicable to dc, ac, and transient problems. Numerical methods of solving linear and nonlinear dc network problems are discussed and a new approach to ac analysis, using the mixed method and a numerical solution of the matrix eigenvalue problem, is described. The extension of this method to the transient analysis of linear networks is also explained. Finally, the problem of instability in the numerical integration of differential equations is discussed and several means of solving the problem are outlined."
"Matrix inversion is very inefficient for computing direct solutions of the large sparse systems of linear equations that arise in many network problems. Optimally ordered triangular factorization of sparse matrices is more efficient and offers other important computational advantages in some applications. With this method, direct solutions are computed from sparse matrix factors instead of from a full inverse matrix, thereby gaining a significant advantage in speed, computer memory requirements, and reduced round-off error. Improvements of tea to one or more in speed and problem size over present applications of the inverse can be achieved in many cases. Details of the method, numerical examples, and the results of a large problem are given."
"A detailed exposition is presented of a computer program for evaluating frequency response characteristics in arbitrary, linear, lumped, electrical networks. The program is based on Branin's \"link-at-a-time\" algorithm, which is adapted for frequency domain analysis and extended to networks containing nonreciprocal elements by exploiting the close relationship between Branin's work and the reinforcement technique of matrix inversion. The program is particularly effective for carrying out sensitivity studies which are often required in tolerance analyses, optimal network design techniques, and the development of network alignment procedures. The sensitivity capability of the program also forms the basis of a novel and effective method for computing group delay data from a nodal impedance matrix. Experimental and theoretical results are presented which demonstrate the superiority of the program to those based on more traditional techniques such as Gaussian elimination or Gauss-Jordan matrix inversion."
"A new iteration method for nonlinear dc analysis, based on Broyden's modification of the Newton-Raphson method, is described. Broyden introduces a variable correction factor which is chosen so as to minimize, or at least reduce, the size of the error vector at each iteration. This completely precludes divergence of the algorithm. Broyden also develops a means for updating the inverse Jacobian matrix without ever having to compute or invert it explicitly. Two algorithms are described, one for solving a single nonlinear problem and the other for solving a large number of neighboring problems such as are encountered in statistical (Monte Carlo) analysis. Timing measurements on these two algorithms are reported. Application of these algorithms to statistical ac analysis and to frequency response calculations is proposed and a possible method of improving the basic algorithm by means of a sparse matrix technique is described."
"Digital simulation of linear systems often is complicated by the simultaneous presence of \"slow\" and \"fast\" time constants (or of small and large eigenvalues). A procedure is described that simplifies the treatment of such systems. Roughly speaking, the procedure consists of separating the response into a \"low-frequency\" and a \"high-frequency\" component, calculating each component, and then adding the results. The response separation is effected by using elementary Filter Theory ideas in a matrix context. Exact eigenvalue information is not required; a rough idea of eigenvalue locations is needed, however, to effect the responce separation."
"Formal optimization procedures are destined to assume an increasingly useful role in network design. To form a basis for continued development, this paper summarizes the field by 1) presenting an extensive and detailed review of the optimization methods used in computer-aided network design and 2) giving state-of-the-art examples of iterative network design."
"The variational approach to the optimal design of high-speed switching circuits is explored. The approach implements the variational calculus to obtain an expression for the vector sensitivity of a scalar performance function (e.g., delay, or switching time) to changes in the vector of design parameters. Gradient methods are established for using the vector sensitivity to iteratively update the parameter vector and obtain an optimal design. It is shown that the variational approach retains, typically, an M-fold computational advantage over conventional step-and-repeat methods in determining the sensitivity of a scalar performance function to M design parameters. The approach is shown to be well adapted for incorporation into package analysis programs with matrix formulations, and vested with sufficient generality to be applicable to a wide range of switching circuit problems (e.g., low-power or large-scale integrated circuits). It is further shown that subsumed in the general class of nonlinear parameter-value synthesis problems is the class of delay-minimization problems, and that the switching time minimization problem is a special case of the classical \"time-optimal\" problem."
"An economic schedule for real power generation is obtained by a Lagrangian method and the allocation of reactive power generation is determined by a gradient method. Alternate real and reactive power requirements for economic system operation are computed until the total cost is minimized within the limitations imposed by system constraints. Repeated solutions of the network equations are used to incorporate the effects of transmission losses in lieu of a precalculated transmission loss formula. The computer program provides a means to determine the optimum use of available real and reactive power generation and to plan economically for future requirements."
"It is shown that many engineering design problems can be formulated in terms of inequality constraints on the system response function(s) and on the design parameters. Any set of design variables for which these constraints are satisfied constitutes an acceptable design. There may be many acceptable designs or none at all. In either case it is possible to define a best or optimal design in a meaningful minimax sense. Such an optimal design is the solution of a related nonlinear programming problem involving the minimization of an easily determined objective function, subject to inequality constraints. Some suggested minimization techniques for solving such problems are briefly described. Two reasonably complex examples, using these methods, are presented: the first details the design of an under-water sonar system and the second describes the design of a wideband crystal filter."
"A systematic and general method of computing ac and dc characteristics of double-diffused junction transistors using major process parameters such as dimensions of the device, surface concentration, junction depth, diffusion time, temperature, and diffusion coefficient as a function of temperature and impurity concentration is described. These parameters can be checked during the process and, therefore, can aid the process control problem by predicting the expected values of junction depth and sheet resistivity. If the specified control parameters are met during the fabrication, the ac and dc characteristics of the device will be realized. The time and/or frequency response of a circuit can be computed using the ac and dc characteristics of the diffused devices of the circuit on the basis of a distributed or an equivalent lumped model. The measurement of important ac parameters on the basis of these models has also been simulated on the computer, thus aiding the characterization problem of the device in the integrated circuit environment. Also, the switching speed of a loaded logic net can be computed and optimized by trading off interacting parameters and relating them back to the original diffusion process parameters and dimensions of the components. Finally, experimental verification of the computed results has been accomplished and found to be satisfactory."
"This paper describes the development and verification of mathematical models which will approximate the electrical characteristics of Zener and/or avalanche diodes and tunnel diodes. Each model consists of a circuit of discrete components with their defining equations. The equations are in a form compatible with the digital computer language which makes the models useful in analysis and design, by computer, of electronic circuits containing these devices. The Zener diode model is basically the familiar Ebers-Moll conventional diode model except that additional current sources have been added to approximate the voltage regulation when breakdown of the junction occurs. The equation for junction capacitance has been modified to model the decrease in capacitance due to avalanche in the junction. A tunnel diode model is presented which approximates the entire static characteristic, including the negative resistance region. Methods for extracting model parameters from a limited number of easily obtainable data points are developed. A method for measuring and describing junction capacitance is also presented."
"The use of general network analysis programs to analyze complex electronic circuits requires that valid models be developed for the active devices in these circuits. A nonlinear model of the field-effect transistor is presented for use in large-signal applications. From this model several piecewise-linear models suitable for use with an Electronic Circuit Analysis Program (ECAP) are derived. The approximations usable in these models are evaluated, and models intended for use in pulse inverters are presented. Techniques for measuring the parameters in the models are described and results of the measurement of these parameters for a sample of field-effect transistors are given. Finally, the behavior of actual pulse inverter circuits is shown to compare favorably with ECAP-Computed circuit performance."
"Fixed-structure lumped, linear, time-invariant RLC network design problems may be solved by means of the digital computer in terms of gradient techniques in parameter space. Formulation of the network constraint equations in such a way that the variable parameters enter linearly allows the extension of this computer-aided scheme to the design of networks of originally unknown structure. The feasibility of this approach to fully automated network design is illustrated by means of computational examples. The extension to more general network design problems, involving controlled source models and time-variable and nonlinear elements, is discussed in the concluding section."
"The morphology of design and the process of design are examined in an effort to establish a commonality between component and system design which would permit the expansion of design automation. The characteristics of a design problem that make it amenable to computer-aided design (CAD) are defined. The capabilities of CAD for the solution of these problems are analyzed and the difficulties facing the implementer outlined. It is concluded that a methodology for CAD development is essential to its use as a system engineering tool and that among the other needs are: commonality of programs, transferability of programs, better efficiency, and standardization of tools and techniques."
"Computer-aided analysis of electronic circuits is examined from the standpoint of the user. A general discussion of program requirements is presented, and several numerical and practical aspects of computer-aided electronic circuit design are given. The engineer's role is discussed in terms of the information and insight needed by the user, and some of the methods utilized in developing computer analysis capabilities at a particular laboratory are given. On-line design is reviewed, with particular emphasis on graphical input and output systems. A design supervisory program is described that would render on-line circuit design a practical reality. Finally, the impact of on-line systems upon computer-aided analysis is examined with reference to the time-sharing system, OCTOPUS, at Lawrence Radiation Laboratory, Livermore, Calif."
"An experimental software system for on-line analysis of linear networks is described. Inputs to the system such as circuit diagrams are given via the light pen and the teletypewriter of a remote graphical console. Analysis results are available in various forms, including console displays of frequency characteristics. The system provides close user supervision so that it is easy to use even for a network designer without direct computing experience. Some typical operations at the console are described. The interaction strategy employed and the data structure used are also presented."
"This paper identifies and introduces in simple terms a broad view of on-line circuit design, which reflects the interrelation and relevance of several diverse areas such as network theory, linguistics, numerical analysis, programming systems, and on-line computation. Discussion is presented in terms of 1) the structure of on-line utlities, 2) requirements imposed by the interactional nature of on-line circuit design, 3) program structures (data structures), and 4) network-analysis considerations. A brief set of conclusions is given."
"Printed circuit board design time can be greatly reduced by the use of a computer program called ACCEL developed jointly by Sandia Corporation and the Thomas Bede Foundation under contract to Sandia. The ACCEL program designs printed circuit boards and proceduces the drawings for their construction. The program is designed to handle components with up to four leads each. The input is encoded from an engineer's schematic diagram by a clerk with no knowledge of electronics. The computer edits the schematic data, places the components on the board, and generates the interconnections between components, all in one run. The outputs of the program are a schematic, parts list, printed circuit etching negative, assembly drawing, and a hole drilling list. The program is written in FORTRAN II for the IBM 7090 computer and the drawings are produced on the Stromberg-Carlson 4020 cathode ray tube plotter."
"A series of computer programs called CADIC has been developed to assist in the layout desigm of integrated circuits. The CADIC system (Computer-Aided Design of Integrated Circuits) is a man-machine system that takes full advntage of human judgment, while relieving the man of much routine work."
"The trend toward computer-aided design, with its resulting increased complexity and specialized circuitry, places particular emphasis on methods of translating design ideas into hardware. In present integrated circuit structures this is accomplished by an iterative process involving both materials pcocessing and geometrical variations. Because of the large number of similar devices being processed, this \"trial and error\" method can be tolerated, but the full utilization of design automation methods for custom applications is only possible if functional operation can be assured with a number of units. This means that circuit variation must be introduced into the manufacturing process through the photolithographic masking process while maintaining an invariant materials process. In this article, the design automation and fabrication sequence of LSI arrays is reviewed, with particular emphasis on the photomasking requirements. Unique, computer controlled equipment for the rapid generation of masks from a cathode-ray tube is described. An illustration is given of the actual information flow that takes place when this equipment is used to discretionarily interconnect an LSI array."
"Self-supporting transmission towers are highly indeterminate structures. Until recently, analysis of such structures was accomplished by determinate methods due to the number of calculations involved in indeterminate methods. Results from the former were often questionable because elastic properties of members were not considered. Today, large numerical problems are being solved with high-speed digital computers as a matter of routine. This paper presents a technique for efficiently solving large systems of symmetrical linear equations obtained from an indeterminate method of analysis without resorting to matrix inversion. A procedure for incorporating the analysis into a tower design program is then given."
"Digital computers have had a significant effect on engineering practice, but they have not yet had a comparable effect on educational methods, primarily because of a lack of convenient man-machine communication capabilities. However, during recent years substantial strides have been taken in making the digital computer more responsive and easier to use with natural \"problem-oriented\" languages and almost instantaneous response. This emerging generation of rapid-access computer systems promises to have a profound impact on both engineering practice and education. The purpose of this paper is to describe an educational experiment that was undertaken to explore the use of \"computer laboratory\" projects as part of a graduate course on \"Electronic Circuit Theory: Nonlinear and Time-Varying.\""
"Summary form only given, as follows. CADAR is an acronym for the \"Computer-Aided Design, Analysis, and Realizability\" Organization which is sponsored by the IEEE New Technical and Scientific Activities Committee (NTSAC). The purpose of CADAR is to promote the effective utilization of computers in the design, analysis, and realization of electrical and electronic devices, circuits, and systems. The technical scope of this organization includes computer programs for the design and analysis of devices, circuits, and systems. The applications of computer graphics and numerical control to specific fields of technologya re also included in the activities ofC ADAR. CADAR interfaces with many tohfe IEEE Groupsh;o wever, it is not a part of any one Group. CADAR representatives have been appointed by ten Groups : Automatic Control; Aerospace and Electronic Systems; Circuit Theory; Computer; Electron Devices; Information Theory; Parts, Materials and Packaging; Power; Reliability; and Systems Sciencea nd Cybernetics. At present, CADAR encourages the scheduling ofs eminars and sessions pertaining to computer-aided design and analysis as part of the many existing conferencesa nd symposia. Similarly, the publication of papers in this field in existing journals is encouraged. The only publication for which CADAR is responsible is the quarterly Newsletter whose format is more varied than the conventional types. The contents include announcements of coming conferences, calls for papers, membership lists, editorial comments, and chairman's messages. The Newsletter also presents technical notes which are informative descriptions of computer programs for circuit analysis."
"The method of characteristics provides a simple analytic solution for the transient analysis of a uniform, lossless transmission line. The interpretation of this solution in terms of equivalent network of the input and output behavior of the transmission line leads to an efficient algorithm which yields not only the input and output responses but also the incident and reflected waves. This method is superior in both speed and accuracy to the familiar method of integrating the differential equations that describe a lumped LC model of the line; but it is not applicable to lossy lines."
"LINGO is a special-purpose programming language developed for computer-aided analysis of linear networks at a remote terminal of a time-sharing computer system. A special compiler (written in FORTRAN) enables the computer to read and execute LINGO programs, and the complete system can be implemented on very small computers (The General Electric Time-Sharing System, on which LINGO was developed, allots to the user only 5300 locations in core memory.) Taking full advantage of the conversational interaction with the computer, the engineer can proceed from the rough idea of the circuit diagram, through writing the LINGO program, to execution and tabulated results within 20 minutes or less. Having access to such a tool encourages the use of the computer as a real desk-side aid to linear network analysis."
"In this letter, So's hybrid description [1] of linear active networks is formulated in both the frequency and time domains using the state equations."
"Conditions for the numerical stability of the series expansion of eATare given, and an alternative, guaranteed stable family of expansions is presented."
"A major problem in the design of these circuits is that of interaction of input, output, and idler circuits. A technique is described which overcomes this problem by means of an iterative design technique using a digital computer. Some design data interpolated from the work of Burkhardt are also presented."
"It is shown on the basis of quite general assumptions that feedback currents introduced into an antenna structure by means of active amplifying elements cannot lead to an improvement in signal-to-noise ratio over that achievable by using the same antenna structure and amplifiers in a conventional manner. Implications and limitations of the general theorem are discussed. In particular, it does not appear possible to use current feedback of the type considered in a small untuned antenna to obtain the improved SNR which is achievable over a narrow band by means of high-quality loading coils and matching networks."
"Adaptively derived linear decision boundaries are used in the recognition of typewritten numeric characters from a variety of fonts. During the adaption process, the weights are allowed to have as many quantization levels as required by the adaptive algorithm. Once these weights and their recognition rate on a test sample are determined, the number of quantization levels is successively reduced, and the effect on recognition rate is tabulated. System performance is maintained surprisingly well as the number of weight levels is reduced."
"A generalization of the well-known RC-CR transformation, which is applicable to active RC networks, is described."
"Waves in a warm electron magnetoplasma are considered, the Chew-Goldberger-Low approximation being used. Linearized equations, applicable when the plasma is inhomogeneous, are obtained; the effect of static pressure variations is included."
"The problem of radiation from a vertical electric dipole in an inhomogeneous half-space is formulated. The detailed calculation is carried out for a suitable profile. It is shown that in an inhomogeneous semi-infinite (or infinite) medium, the far-field energy may propagate also in the angular direction (θ-direction)."
"A three-step procedure is presented which converts an nth-order polynomial into a (2n + 1)th-order polynomial whose number of right-hand plane poles equals the number of complex roots present in the original polynomial. It is shown that these three steps can be carried out by a simple manipulation of the coefficients of the original polynomial, permitting the first three rows of the Routh criterion used to test the transformed polynomial to be written directly. The procedure is illustrated by two examples."
"Deflection-modulation displays reveal two mechanisms which contribute to the uniqueness of the CRT display: scan line intensification and line number density. These mechanisms provide significant display characteristics for abrupt feature changes which are orthogonal to scan direction. Equation (1) describes line density variations as a function of line number and horizontal position."
"The purpose of this letter is to derive the criteria under which a two-port network can be compensated to behave as an ideal NIC. These criteria enable us to redefine the term \"nonideal NIC\" more realistically."
"Measurements of threshold pumping power as a function of beam voltage and measurements of output power as a function of input power, with beam voltage as a parameter, strongly suggest that surface recombination contributes heavily to nonradiative transitions in electron-beam pumped GaAs lasers at voltages up to 30 kV, at both 4.2°K and 77°K."
"A general solution in closed form is given for the coupled-mode problem for a two-mode system. Difficulties in extending the theory to systems with more than two modes are discussed."
"It is shown that the inverse z-transform can be expressed as a sequence of determinants. Evaluation of these determinants is simplified by developing recursive relations among them."
"A practical method for evaluating parasitic bulk resistances in junction FETs is described. The method does not require a knowledge of the actual device geometry or dimensions. It is shown that parasitic bulk resistances make up a substantial portion of measured open-channel resistance."
"This letter describes a technique for detecting motion due to self-heating of small semiconductor devices. The technique utilizes holographic interferometry coupled with holographic microscopy. The optical arrangement described is similar to a normal illumination microscope. Although oblique illumination of the object could be used, the former technique facilitates the observance of the fringe pattern, indicative of motion of the device."
"Application of the theory of transformer-coupled circuits to parametric up-converters indicates that a double-peaked gain response may be obtained with an upper-sideband converter having single-tuned input and output circuits."
"The operating efficiency of the CO2-He-N210.6-micron laser has beeen increased by 12-25 percent through the addition of Xe gas to the existing ternary flowing gas mixture. The efficiency increase comes about through a reduction in the laser discharge voltage, leaving the output power essentially unchanged."
"Presented is a method of obtainig estimates of a continuous-time system output when only discrete-time samples of the input are available. No z-transforms or integrals need be evaluated to implement this method."
"Source transformations are used to derive same expressions relating the transfer and output impedances of a general two-port linear network terminated in a time-varying element. It is shown that a restricted form of the reciprocity theorem applies to circuits in which the time variation is periodic, such as mixers, parametric amplifiers, and super-regenerative amplifiers."
"The experimental operation of a three-mirror polarized laser cavity is described which is substantially insensitive to either residual or thermally induced birefringence in a glass laser rod, the use of which produces a remarkable improvement in repetition rate over that possible with a conventional two-mirror cavity."
"The temperature rise of transistor junctions is analyzed by solving the two-dimensional thermal conduction equation. The result can be applied to determine the allowable current of the transistor, and it is shown that the allowable current is proportional to the minus one-quarter power of pulse duration at the high-current region."
"An analogy is drawn between RLC networks (without mutual coupling) and networks containing one type of externally variable elements (e.g., temperature-variable) with reciprocal normalized characteristics and constant elements of the same type. This analogy permits the usage of network synthesis techniques in the realization of networks consisting of these three element types."
"Silicon p-π-n diodes have been fabricated which exhibit large negative resistance at room temperature. The ratio of threshold voltage to minimum voltage is as large as 400. The volt-ampere characteristic above breakdown shows near-exponential behavior."
"In recent letters, Stanley[1], Reis[2], and Fielder[3] investigated a matrix which related the numerator coefficients of a rational Laplace transform to the initial values of the inverse transform. In another letter, Silverman[4] had occasion to consider the controllability matrix of a linear dynamic system in canonic form. The present letter has two purposes. The first is to show that these two matrices are identical. The second is to solve the problem, once again, by use of Wronski relations,[5] thereby obtaining an easily computed solution to the problem in terms of eigenvalues."
"In this letter the response of a modified version of a phase-locked demodulator (PLD), called a tunable compound phase-locked demodulator (TCPLD), to an FM signal has been studied. In such a system it has been shown that the maximum permissible value of the input modulation index of the incoming signal can be much higher than that appearing at the input of an ordinary phase-locked demodulator."
"It is shown that for linear sampled-data antenna-array processing, the Wiener filter has, in general, a higher output signal-to-noise ratio than does the mximun-likelihood filter. The two filters become virtually identical as the input signal-to-noise ratio grows large."
"A noise source connected to a universal dc motor would violate the second law of thermodynamics with commonly accepted models of lumped circuit elements. It is shown that this paradox is due to a too idealized representation of the motor model."
"The noise performance of the active circulator is considered here. The theoretical noise figure is given at much lower frequency than the fTof the transistor used. The experimental value is found to be 7.6 dB at 30 MHz."
"The use of holographic concepts of image formation with nonoptical object illumination is discussed. Some limitations on the practical realization of such schemes are pointed out. Comment is made on proposals for radio-frequency holography published it an earlier letter."
"The energy density of longitudinal waves in a homogeneous plasma is found from a general theory for sound waves in dispersive media. The energy relation of Lonngren is then interpreted as the acoustic version of the harmonic Poynting theorem in electromagnetism."
"This letter reports the operation of a tunneling cryotron flip-flop in which a current transfer rate of 107A/s is achieved. The measured time of 2 ns required to transfer 20 mA is in excellent agreement with predicted values. These measurements imply a junction transition time appreciably smaller than 800 ps, the previously measured upper bound."
"A complete set of realizability conditions for networks containing two-terminal R, L, and C components described by second-order state equations is obtained."
"An analysis is presented for the intrinsic time variance originating from thermal noise and finite capacitances in high-speed timing circuits using tunned diodes. The nonlinear differential equation of the transition is solved numerically for a wide range of circuit parameters, and limitations On the minimum attainable time variance are derived."
"The effect of neglecting antenna mismatch in evaluating the RF transmission through a reentry plasma is discussed and evaluated."
"A low-pass filter structure for use in millimeter-wave oversized waveguide or focused-beam systems is described. Tests on a trial structure demonstrated the feasibility of obtaining a low-loss passband and a broad stopband. The structure described uses a number of dielectric plates with copper strips on them."
"Two theorems on the instability of a periodically time-varying system are stated. Their relationship to recently published results on instability is discussed. Proofs, made elementary by the assumption of periodicity, are given."
"The approximation technique, presented in a previous letter, is extended to linear-slope delay functions. The approximation polynomial is, again, of the form Pn(s)= M(s) + N(s)k. The zeros of the M(s) and N(s) can be found with the help of the simple relation or by using the presented diagram. Although the obtained functions do not pretend to be used as a final approximation to the desired ideal, they can be successfully utilized as a starting point for perturbation techniques."
"A technique is described capable of reducing co-channel IM distortion from 10 to 30 dB. The basic approach uses two active elements in which the mixing term of the Taylor expansion of the transfer characteristic is positive and the IM term is positive for one element and negative for the other, thereby cancelling the IM products without affecting conversion loss."
"There is practically no quantitative information in the open literature to substantiate claims about attenuation of laser beams traversing rocket plumes. This letter gives numerical results for very practical circumstances at typical altitude conditions."
"A composite transistor consisting of a conventional transistor and a Schottky-barrier diode is proposed which has a very short saturation time constant τs0. The measured τs0of the composite transistor is reduced to ∼10 to 50 percent of that of the original transistor and is 1 ns at best."
"A high-performance IMPATT diode test circuit has been developed which is very effective in reducing spurious oscillations. In this circuit, a 6-GHz germanium diode has been tested at 12.1-percent CW efficiency and 0.620-watt output."
"Experimental results obtained by measurements on Ge IMPATT diodes show that one of the important parameters governing the microwave efficiency of these diodes is the thickness of the unswept expitaxial material at breakdown. It is shown that about 3 µ of unswept epitaxial material can reduce the efficiency by a factor of 10."
"A general parametric form of the R(D) function is obtained. To each distortion function belonging to a broad class and every source distribution there corresponds a D*> 0 such that R(D) can be explicitly evaluated if D ∈ [0, D*)."
"Transmission type diode switches were constructed with Ge silver-bonded diodes biased in the avalanche conditions. Several types of attenuation versus bias voltage characteristic were observed. One of the switches gave an insertion loss of 0.6 dB and an isolation of 30.8 dB for input power of -10 dBm at 46.6 GHz."
"An arbitrary open-circuit voltage transfer function whose poles and zeros may be independently controlled is realized using RC elements and at most (2n + 2) operational amplifiers, with adjustable gains, where n is the higher of the degrees of the numerator and denominator polynomials of the transfer function."
"The beamless scanning principle was proposed in 1934 by the author. A television pick-up tube using this principle played a significant role in the history of television in the U.S.S.R. It is pointed out that the operation of some recent solid-state devices is based on this same principle."
"Notice of No Change in the Phase of Seconds Pulses from NBS Radio Station WWVB and No Change in Phase of Time Pulses from NBS Radio Stations WWV and WWVH on November 1, 1967 and Monthly Fractional Frequency Ofisets and Time Deviations for NBS Radio Stations WWV, WWVH, wwvL,and wwvB"
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"Provides an overview of the technical articles and features presented in this issue."
"In order to realize the advantages of using lasers for communications, means must be obtained to modulate with sufficient bandwidth and capacity, deflect, switch, frequency translate, or otherwise effect a modification of the optical beam in a predictable manner. This problem has provided the incentive for extensive materials research directed toward the development of any crystal capable of low-loss optical transmission whose properties can be modified by an electric or magnetic field or applied external stress, and whose properties, at the same time, will interact in some specified manner with the optical beam. In this paper some dielectric materials for these uses currently in various stages of development will be described."
"From the transfer characteristic of the junction-type field effect transistor, nonlinear distortion effects can be evaluated without difficulty. It is shown how the conversion transconductance can be calculated as a function of the operating point, the local oscillator voltage and the oscillator output resistance. A new method has been derived which permits a very precise evaluation of the conversion transconductance even if the operating point is chosen in the cutoff region. The investigations deal with the influence of the signal amplitude upon nonlinear distortion in mixer stages and also treat the generation of whistles. The conversion transconductance exhibits a flat maximum as a function of the gate bias voltage. Thus, an optimum operating range can be indicated where the ratio between mixing current and distortion product currents is most favorable. Finally, it is shown how the operating point can be preserved in stabilized mixer stages and some reference details for the behavior of FET stages at very high frequencies are given."
"The case of a rigid conducting sphere or cylinder that travels with uniform velocity relative to a two-dimensional primarily transverse magnetic field with sinusoidal variation in space and time is analyzed to determine the electromechanical characteristics of the interaction. Interest is centered on conductors with diameters small relative to the wavelength of the applied field. For the sphere, an exact solution is not tractable by standard techniques, hence, a method is utilized in which the force is approximated by one of its components. The results are verified by: 1) applying the approximation to the analogous case of a cylinder and comparing the result with the exact solution to that case, 2) comparing the limit of the approximate solution for the sphere with the result obtained by assuming the magnetic Reynolds number to be small, and 3) determining the net time-average force of electromagnetic origin experimentally for comparison with the predictions of the theory. The latter were carried out for the cylinder as well as the sphere over a range of magnetic Reynolds numbers (sRm= µ0σsωD2) from 0.4 to 20. In the course of the work, a method is also utilized in which the original \"skin effect\" problem is reduced to a problem involving interacting low sRmcomponents and the force is found via the techniques of lumped parameter electromechanics. The study is concluded with a determination of the condition under which two spheres or cylinders are electromagnetically independent so that the results for a distribution of conductors may he obtained by superposition of the results for a single body. Situations which may be modeled using the results of this study include holdup or separation of a highly conducting liquid phase from a two-phase flow in heat transfer apparatus as a result of the application of a magnetic field gradient or the energy conversion in a liquid metal magnetohydrodynamic induction machine with a two-phase working fluid."
"This paper attempts to develop a theory of the role of ambipolar phenomena in the mechanism of the post-zero current in high-current vacuum circuit breakers on a more general and more accurate basis that can be found in the literature. Several cases of interest are compared and discussed and their probable range of validity established. Whereas the theory presented in this paper is probably adequate when the density of the neutral gas is low (mean free path comparable to electrode separation), it should probably be combined with other recognized mechanisms, notably gross gas motions and turbulence, when the pressure is higher during the afterglow. No numerical check is presented here, most of the basic data still being much too uncertain."
"A theoretical investigation of a narrow tape helix excited by a modulated electron beam gives quantitative results which can be used to estimate the strengths of interactions obtainable in experimental configurations. Extensive results are presented for the radiation emitted by a single fast space harmonic when a slow beam is in synchronism with the azimuthally symmetric space harmonic. The effects of beam velocity, frequency, beam diameter, tape width, and pitch angle are illustrated. The analysis also demonstrates the influence of the synchronism or electromagnetic resenance condition on the interaction and, further, points out the usefulness of the complex Brillouin (k - β) diagram in predicting some of the quantitative as well as most of the qualitative properties of this influence."
"A system consisting of an antenna array and an adaptive processor can perform filtering in both the space and the frequency domains, thus reducing the sensitivity of the signal-receiving system to interfering directional noise sources. Variable weights of a signal processor can be automatically adjusted by a simple adaptive technique based on the least-mean-squares (LMS) algorithm. During the adaptive process an injected pilot signal simulates a received signal from a desired \"look\" direction. This allows the array to be \"trained\" so that its directivity pattern has a main lobe in the previously specified look direction. At the same time, the array processing system can reject any incident noises, whose directions of propagation are different from the desired look direction, by forming appropriate nulls in the antenna directivity pattern. The array adapts itself to form a main lobe, with its direction and bandwidth determined by the pilot signal, and to reject signals or noises occurring outside the main lobe as well as possible in the minimum mean-square error sense. Several examples illustrate the convergence of the LMS adaptation procedure toward the corresponding Wiener optimum solutions. Rates of adaptation and misadjustments of the solutions are predicted theoretically and checked experimentally. Substantial reductions in noise reception are demonstrated in computer-simulated experiments. The techniques described are applicable to signal-receiving arrays for use over a wide range of frequencies."
"Codes are presented for certain combinations of word length n and minimum distance d. Specifically, the codes are for n = 34, d = 13; n = 38, d = 13; n = 28, d = 11; n = 30, d = 11; n = 24, d = 9; n = 26, d = 9. These codes compare favorably with Bose-Chaudhuri codes as regards the number of words."
"Gain measurements on some of the strong emission lines of a pulsed water vapor laser are presented. For the strong 27.97-micron line, the gain has been measured as a function of both current excitation and pressure. An absorption effect has been found which suggests that the laser transitions take place between highly excited molecular states."
"Corona-generated pulses and radio interference (RI) from a water drop under five different types of excitation are reported. A basic difference in characteristics of pulse trains generated under normal ac, rectified ac, and dc excitations is presented."
"Transmission-type amplifiers in the 50-GHz band were constructed with Ge silver-bonded varactor diodes biased in the avalanche condition. A transmission gain of 4 to 6 dB was stably obtained. The bandwidth was about 230 MHz."
"A method of combining 2nidentical oscillators with 2n- 13-dB directional couplers for output power summing is described. Preliminary experimental results obtained at about 19 MHz with 32 tunnel diode oscillators and lumped constant 3-dB directional couplers show that the output power is multiplied by approximately 32."
"Often a nonlinear transfer characteristic is given in terms of rms input and rms fundamental output. It is shown that this can be transformed into an instantaneous input/output characteristic which includes the odd-order components only. The even-order components have been irrevocably lost. The even-order terms of the instantaneous transfer characteristic can be obtained from the rms-input/dc-output characteristic. The instantaneous characteristic is required, for instance, when calculating distortion."
"A description and preliminary experimental results of high field domain scanning in cadmium sulfide are presented. A prototype optical image sensor was built having two photo sensors connected to a multiterminal CdS bulk oscillator."
"Reduced conversion loss and improved yield and reliability have been obtained in 94-GHz GaAs mixer diodes by substituting a gold-copper alloy wire for the conventional phosphor-bronze whisker."
"The observed effects of an applied magnetic dc field on the oscillation of a p-i-n CW silicon avalanche diode oscillating near 11 GHz at room temperature are described. Near oscillation threshold, the applied magnetic field increases the RF power output significantly and the frequency of oscillation slightly, but has little effect at higher output levels."
"Simultaneous observations were made of current and voltage waveforms of Gunn oscillators mounted in a resistive circuit. From the results of the observations, the efficiency of resistively loaded Gunn oscillators is studied for applied voltages and load resistances, and some quantities for a high-field domain are also discussed for applied voltages."
"Penfield has noted that circuit theory paradoxically suggests that a series motor connected to a \"noise resistor\" should run as a perpetual motion machine of the second kind. It is shown that the paradox results because of the incorrect assumption that the noise current at the resistor terminals accounts for the total motor torque."
"It is common belief among engineers that a pseudo-random sequence, obtained from a linear feedback shift register, can be used as a key-stream to obtain cryptologic secrecy. Communications engineers are advised that this method is fallacious."
"The suppressed or arrested electric discharge, a hitherto relatively inactive regime of gaseous electronics, is revived on account of recent developments in fast, high-power, repetitive nanosecond impulse technology. The incentives include its extraordinary properties and promising and unique applications."
"By making use of an arcsine model to represent the transfer characteristic of a MOSFET stage, a relation is derived that provides the peak amplitude level permissible for gross deviation from linearity to be limited to a preassigned value. The large-signal model is specified by two easily determined parameters."
"When the bit duration-bandpass filter bandwidth product b0T takes any positive integer, the exact expression of the error probability of the noncoherent multiple frequency shift keyed scheme, PCM/MFS, is derived. When b0T ≫ 1, an asymptotic error probability results. The error probability is plotted for a 5-bit code word for various b0T."
"Available microwave methods for the measurement of effective mass of carriers in semiconductors are discussed and two other possible methods using only microwave data and requiring no assumption about the energy dependence of the momentum relaxation time of the carriers are suggested."
"Efficient sputtering has been achieved in a cold-cathode discharge in a magnetron geometry under a strong magnetic field. The sputtering may be readily used for the production of thin-film microcircuits. The mechanism of the sputtering is discussed in connection with the mode of discharge."
"The structure of a decision table which imparts self-diagnostic features to digital computers along with a method of implementing it is developed in this letter. Apart from considerig the relative frequency of failure in the system the present procedure includes an on-line assessment of the sequence of execution of the tests."
"The construction operation, and relative gain of an ultrasonic amplifier using a vapor-phase grown zinc oxide crystal as the amplifying medium is described. The mode of operation was compressional. The desired operational resistivity (∼ 104ohm ċ cm) was obtained at 173°K. Maximum relative gain was about 52 dB/cm."
"The key element of a wideband radar pulse compression system generates a linear frequency versus time characteristic which is usable for either pulse expansion or compression. Data are presented on the performance of a 500-MHz acoustic diffraction grating delay line with linear dispersive characteristics utilizing a design bandwidth of 250 MHz and dispersion of 1.0 µs."
"The Hall angle in n-type InSb at 77°K is investigated from the viewpoint of its dependence on the angle between the current and the magnetic field by taking the magnetoresistance effect into consideration. At a high magnetic field, the Hall angle tends to saturate, and the angle between the current and the magnetic field giving rise to the maximum Hall angle deviates from 90°."
"An experimental low-power nanoseceod X-band microwave switch and accompanying video driver circuit are described. The switch is used to modulate the output of a CW X-band source and provides pulses at a nominal 2-MHz repetition frequency for an experimental, coherent pulse Doppler radar application. Pulse lengths at the -3 dB and -40 dB points are 1 ns and 2 ns, respectively. Pulse shape is characterized by subnanosecond rise and fall times and the amplitude of the pulse time sidelobes is -35 dB or less. The switch provides an isolation of 50 dB or more in the off-state, and 6 dB or less ha the on-state. Maximum X-band input power capability is 10 mW at a frequency of 9.2 GHz."
"The radiation tolerance is defined to be the integrated neutron flux required to reduce the transconductance or common emitter current gain by a tolerable reduction factor. Using this definition, simplified gain models, and empirical data, general expressions are derived and comparisons made which indicate that the junction field effect transistor is inherently more radiation tolerant than the bipolar."
"Two circuits which utilize bulk GaAs to generate baseband subnanosecond pulses are described. The first circuit is a triggered monostable pulse regenerator while the second is a free-running relaxation oscillator which produces sharp pulses at repetition frequencies which can be an order of magnitude lower than the domain reciprocal transit time. This is possible since domain formation is limited for an extended period of time between pulses due to the presence of an external inductor."
"Avalanche diodes have been mounted in microstrip circuits with pulsed oscillation observed at X-band. An improved circuit was designed for the diode based on published small-signal impedance data. Multimoding has been eliminated by the use of this circuit with a new etched diode. Power and efficiency are at present lower than that obtained for the same devices in waveguide circuits."
"Generalizations of a model for signal flow in a store and forward communication network are presented. Included are the cases in which errors are generated in the channels, the nodes are coupled, and zero memory waiting takes place at each node."
"Equations are presented which fit the experimental dependence of carrier mobilities on doping density and field strength in silicon. The curve-fitting procedures are described."
"A simple, reproducible MOS process requiring few steps and no elaborate equipment was developed. A surface charge density of 1 × 1011/cm2was obtained for 1000-Å thermal oxide on 〈100〉 10-ohm ċ cm p-type silicon chips after mounting and bonding. Stability results after temperature-bias test (3 min at 300°C with a field of 106V/cm) exhibited a flatband voltage shift of only -0.50 V."
"A technique for the measurement of the transducer frequency response in an ultrasonic amplifier, using the acoustoelectric effect, is presented. The validity of this method is experimentally verified by using the measured transducer characteristics to predict the amplifier transmission and comparing this result with the actual transmission data."
"This letter is intended to extend and clarify the methods of obtaining digital filters given in the above paper. Pertinent references to related literature are also included, especially those regarding quantization errors."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"Silicon solar cells were constructed with drift fields of various widths and magnitudes. Both initial performance and performance after irradiation with up to 10161 MeV electrons/cm2are compared with theory. Behavior is much as expected if the radiation damage is assumed to vary with doping level. This latter assumption leads to the conclusion that little change in cell performance occurs because of the field. Such a result was not anticipated at the start of the investigation, since the neglect of the capture cross-section variation gave the prediction of appreciably improved radiation tolerance."
"This paper discusses the development of ion implantation techniques for the production of high efficiency n-on-p silicon solar cells. Although the process is still being optimized, ion-implanted cells are already competitive with diffusion produced cells, with air mass zero (AMO) efficiencies of 11 percent having been achieved. A high-current production machine capable of producing 10 000 cells/week has been constructed and is being applied to further cell development. The process has been applied to dendritic material with AMO efficiencies of > 9.3 percent having been achieved. Using an ion beam high-vacuum sputtering process, cells have been fabricated with 1 mil fused SiO2integral cover slips and AMO efficiencies of > 10 percent."
"Studies were made of the degradation of 50 cm2cadmium-sulfide thin-film solar cells caused by exposure to humidity and simulated space environment. Uncovered cells and those laminated with Capran adhesive were degraded at rates proportional to the amount of moisture present. Cells that lost less than 50 percent of their original output could be restored completely by being heated in a vacuum. Recent cells laminated with epoxy adhesive are not affected by moisture. Cadmium-sulfide solar cells fabricated with metal substrates and electroplated gold grids or with plastic substrates have very long thermal cycling lives in simulated space environments."
"The CdS solar cell is a photovoltaic device made from a thin-evaporated film of CdS and a chemically formed layer of copper sulfide. A model is presented which describes the formation of the p-type copper-sulfide layer into the n-type CdS material and the resulting p-n junction. The model explains the physical, electrical, and electrooptical properties of the device and its mode of operation."
"Thin-film solar cells utilizing polycrystalline gallium-arsenide films have been made and investigated to determine their suitability for future solar-power systems. The gallium-arsenide films are vapor deposited onto substrates of molybdenum or aluminum foil. Of the various junctions investigated, the most successful has been one consisting of a surface barrier employing an evaporated film of platinum or semiconducting copper selenide. The efficiencies of platinum gallium-arsenide barriers on molybdenum substrates have been 3 percent for 4 cm2area, 4.5 percent for 2 cm2area and 5 percent for 0.2 cm2area. For copper selenide gallium-arsenide barriers on molybdenum an efficiency of 4.6 percent for 0.73 cm2area has been measured; using aluminum substrates this figure is 4.3 percent for the same area with a power-to-weight ratio in excess of 135 watts per pound. With an etching treatment, cells made with copper selenide barriers have shown no degradation on the shelf or under load at room ambient."
"From the viewpoint of the space power-systems designer, the most useful data for radiation-damaged solar cells is that of output power as a function of cell voltage, temperature, and radiation. This paper reviews the available results from laboratory radiation experiments where solar simulators were used. The solar cells studied were 1 and 10 ohm-cm n-on-p boron-doped cells, 5 and 10 ohm--cm aluminum-doped cells, and dendritic drift-field cells. Most of the experiments use 1 MeV electrons with some data for 0.5 to 2 MeV electrons and 0.5 to 2.7 MeV protons. Comparisons are made between types of cells on the basis of maximum power output and power at a fixed voltage. A fixed voltage is determined for each cell type using the value of cell voltage at maximum power after a 1 MeV electron fluence of 1016e/cm2. There is an apparent lack of agreement among experimental results in the order of 3 or 4 percent, due to spectral variations between simulators. Another reason for the spread in data is attributed to differences that may occur from one group of cells to another, even from the same manufacturer. However, taking this into account, the average power at fixed voltage for the 1 ohm-cm cells is greater than the average for 10 ohm-cm up to a fluence of 5 × 1015e/cm2, where a crossover occurs, and the 10 ohm-cm cells became superior."
"In this paper we describe a time-of-flight technique which has been used to measure the drift velocities of carriers in silicon at high electric fields. Carrier velocities are determined absolutely by measuring the transit time of carriers through a region of approximately uniform electric field and known width in a p+-ν -n+diode. The transit time is obtained directly as the duration of the sample current pulse following bombardment of one face of the p+-ν-n+diode with a very short pulse of 10-keV electrons. The ratio of the known sample width to the measured transit time gives the carrier velocity for a particular value of electric field. The carrier-velocity data thus obtained are absolute, with an accuracy of approximately ± 5 percent. Drift-velocity data for carriers in silicon are presented for electric fields between 4 and 40 kV/cm and the present data are compared with those obtained from measurements of current density in bulk samples as a function of electric field."
"A method is presented which allows the measurement of the velocity-field relationship of charge carriers in a semiconductor. The device used is a four-layer structure. The mode of operation is based on the injection by punch-through of charge carriers into a long depleted region. The velocity can be determined from the VI characteristic of the device and its geometry. Drift velocity saturation is indicated directly by the form of the characteristic. The method has been applied to the measurement of the high-field velocity of holes in silicon. Technological limitations restricted the measurements to fields above 4 . 104V/cm. From this value up to 11 . 104V/cm the hole velocity is found to be constant and equal to 7.5 . 106cm/s ± 5%."
"The differential resistance of an avalanching p+nn+junction is used to obtain the electron drift velocity at electric fields where significant avalanching is occurring (2 × 105< E < 4 × 105V/cm). The velocity is also obtained as a function of temperature and is consistent with energetic phonon scattering."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"A computer simulation of a GaAs Gunn diode in a parallel resonant circuit has been made to determine the optimum device and circuit parameters. The maximum dc to RF efficiency, 5 to 8 percent, is obtained when the product of doping and length is between 1012and 2 × 1012cm-2, the product of frequency and length is 107cm/s, and the bias voltage divided by length is 8000 V/cm for a load resistance of30 R_{0}where R0is the low-voltage resistance of the diode. The product of output power and load resistance varies with frequencyfasC f^{2}whereCis 12,000 watt-ohm-GHz2for a load resistance of50 R_{0}. The frequency can be varied over an octave tuning range by the resonant circuit."
"The microwave-gain characteristics of a bulk GaAs amplifier have been investigated experimentally as a function of temperature. The resistivity of the samples showed a strong temperature dependence, hence the results have been interpreted in terms of changing carrier concentration assuming a constant mobility. It has been found that stable amplification only occurs within a narrow range of temperature (carrier concentration). The highestn . Lproduct (carrier density × sample length) for which gain has been observed was about 5 . 1011cm-2, and this is in agreement with earlier results and theory. Amplification did not occur belown . L = 8 . 10^{10}cm-2. The frequency band where negative conductance appears was found to be strongly dependent on temperature (carrier density) and bias field. Noise figures, measured at temperatures where gain occurred, lay between 20 and 30 dB. Noise figure appears to be nearly independent of temperature. Gain versus field measurements on a stable amplifier indicate that the peak field of the velocity-field curve is about 4000 V/cm. Gain versus frequency and noise figure have also been measured on a bulk semiconductor amplifier which was operated with a coaxial transformer to increase the gain over a broad microwave frequency range."
"The theoretical capacitance of abrupt p-n heterojunctions including the effects of interface states is examined. The interface effects depend on the bulk impurity concentrations and their ratio, as well as the density and distribution of interface states. In the Ge-GaAs junctions studied, the impurity concentrations and density of interface states are such that interface effects have only a negligible influence on the capacitance of these devices. Interface states have a considerable effect on the capacitance of the Ge-Si junctions studied, however. They affect the apparent diffusion voltages obtained by extrapolating 1/C2to zero and add a significant frequency-dependent term on many diodes. The frequency-dependent term is due to the rate limited charging and discharging of interface states."
"An analysis is made of a double-gate thin-film transistor structure, and equations are derived for current flow for different input conditions on each gate. The use of two independent gates allows the possibility of simultaneously maintaining depletion and enhancement regions along the channel, and Poisson's equation is used to find the field and potential distribution along the channel. It is shown that by proper manipulation of the second gate, characteristic curves ranging from the normal TFT \"pentode\" curves to \"triode\" curves can be obtained from the same device. A comparison is given of experimental and theoretical results."
"An analysis of devices with drift fields formed by an impurity gradient is carried out allowing for lifetime and mobility variations with impurity concentration. In the case of silicon n-on-p photovoltaic solar cells, a field width of about twice the diffusion length of the minority carriers maximizes the collection efficiency. For lifetimes longer than one microsecond the optimum field width is about 25 µm, a value governed by the absorption characteristics rather than the diffusion length. In most cases, increasing the concentration ratio above 3 orders of magnitude is of little or no assistance in improving the collection efficiency. It is also shown that if the constant relating lifetime to high energy-particle flux is a strong function of impurity concentration, there is little advantage in using drift-field solar cell structures to enhance radiation resistance."
"A transient component in the breakdown voltage of silicon n+-p junctions, at the onset of breakdown in the region of intermittent microplasma conduction, has been studied. The rates of transition from initial to final values of VBhave been found to be proportional to the relative on-time of the microplasma pulses, and the magnitude of the change in VBreaches a maximum at the temperature at which the position of the equilibrium Fermi level coincides with the energy level of the trapping centers. The effect is explained on the basis of the filling of traps during microplasma conduction, thus changing the net ionized impurity concentration and hence the breakdown voltage."
"Factors determining the performance of a transistor parametric frequency doubler are considered from the transistor equivalent network viewpoint, emphasising the integral nature of the active and parametric regions. On the basis of a simple transistor model connected as a frequency doubler, it is shown that a higher loading of the harmonic circuit is required than for a conventional varactor multiplier. By use of circuit models which incorporate parasitics inherent in a high-power, high-frequency planar transistor structure, it is shown that more efficient pumping of the varactor region is possible than would be predicted from the standard equivalent circuit models."
"Results of measurements on the nonlinear ac currents in a velocity modulated confined electron beam are reported. The test vehicle is a two cavity klystron type device with an axially movable demodulator. The ac beam currents at the fundamental and at the two lowest harmonic frequencies have been measured as functions of the distance along the beam for various modulation levels and dc beam currents. The work provides experimental data in the transition range between linear space-charge wave-type and ballistic-type behavior of the ac beam current. The experimental results are in good agreement with the nonlinear space-charge wave theory."
"In the design of traveling-wave tubes, the effect of changing such design parameters as beam current, frequency, or helix diameter is usually not immediately obvious. This paper makes the effect of some major design parameters more apparent by introducing certain approximations. Within the limits of the approximations, the gain-helix radius product is shown to depend only on beam perveance and a geometry-determined factor F. For a given geometry (defined as the ratios of all radial dimensions),CandQCare derived from\\gamma aand beam perveance. Thus, universal graphs for gain per unit length,CandQC, are evolved. By keeping\\gamma a, beam perveance and tube geometry invariable, the RF behavior of traveling-wave tubes can be preserved. Consequently, scaling equations for traveling-wave tubes can be derived, and are presented in this paper."
"A minimum noise figure has been derived for the magnetron injection gun. This theoretical expression is based upon RF equations which were developed to calculate the transport of current and velocity fluctuations along a planar 3-dimensional space-charge flow. Current and velocity fluctuations at the magnetron gun output were found to be correlated regardless of the assumed cathode conditions. The resultant minimum noise figure expression incorporating correlation is valid for any planar, lossless O-type device utilizing a magnetron injection gun. The variations of magnetron gun-velocity fluctuations, current fluctuations, and minimum noise figure versus transit angle and cathode-magnetic field angle were plotted assuming that the noise at the potential minimum consisted of the traditional values of uncorrelated shot current and mean-square velocity fluctuations. The noise figure for the other values of the dc magnetron-gun parameters and assumed cathode-noise conditions are easily calculated since all expressions are in closed mathematical form. Comparisons between this theoretical minimum noise figure and the noise performance of an operational multicavity klystron were made."
"According to Sah's theory (1964) of excess noise in junction-gate field effect transistors the equivalent saturated diode current Ieq of the drain noise should vary as Vd5/2 below saturation (where Vd is the drain to source voltage) and rapidly turn over into its saturated value at saturation. Experimentally, one finds in many units that Ieqa ries as Vd5/2 at low currents, roughly as Vd3/2 at intermediate currents and that IeQ gradually turns over into its saturated value at saturation. We shall see that this behavior can be explained by field-dependent mobility effects."
"In this contribution, the authors suggest that the simplification of a single equivalent-noise generator or an equivalent-noise resistance can be a misleading step and useful only where the operating conditions, and the input terminations yield noise-figures far removed from the optimum."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"A device is described which permits high-Qfrequency selection to be incorporated into silicon integrated circuits. It is essentially an electrostatically excited tuning fork employing field-effect transistor \"readout.\" The device, which is called the resonant gate transistor (RGT), can be batch-fabricated in a manner consistent with silicon technology. Experimental RGT's with gold vibrating beams operating in the frequency range 1 kHz < f0< 100 kHz are described. As an example of size, a 5-kHz device is about 0.1 mm long (0.040 inch). Experimental units possessingQ's as high as 500 and overall input-output voltage gain approaching + 10 dB have been constructed. The mechanical and electrical operation of the RGT is analyzed. Expressions are derived for both the beam and the detector characteristic voltage, the device center frequency, as well as the device gain and gain-stability product. A batch-fabrication procedure for the RGT is demonstrated and theory and experiment corroborated. Both single- and multiple-pole pair band pass filters are fabricated and discussed. Temperature coefficients of frequency as low as 90- 150 ppm/°C for the finished batch-fabricated device were demonstrated."
"Insulated gate field-effect devices with thermally grown silicon dioxide and deposited nitride insulation were subjected to electron irradiation up to a total dose of sufficient magnitude to establish dynamic equilibrium. The resultant linear shift of the gate turn-on voltage with applied gate bias over a wide range of biasing conditions has been interpreted by a model postulating a positive space charge region bounded by the insulator-semiconductor interface and a negative space charge region bounded by the insulator-metal interface. It is shown that the linearity holds for an arbitrary space charge distribution within these two regions whose widths are independent of the gate voltage during irradiation. The conditions for obtaining completely radiation-resistant devices have also been derived."
"The frequency response of a PIN avalanching photodiode has been analyzed without the usual assumption that the electrons and the holes have equal ionization rates (\\alpha_{n} = \\alpha_{p}) and equal scattering-limited velocities (v_{n} = v_{p}). A general formula for the frequency response is first derived for the case in which the photons are absorbed in the space charge region oriregion and the photon density decreases with penetration depth according toe^{-\\alpha x}. The frequency response for the case of photon absorption in thepornregion is obtained simply by letting α approach infinity in the general formula and that for the case of uniform absorption of photons in the space charge region by allowing α to approach zero. The analysis, based on a model in which the photons come from thepside, shows the following: 1) The dc multiplication factor does not depend on vnand vpin any manner. It does not depend on α if\\alpha_{n} = \\alpha_{p}. When\\alpha_{n} > \\alpha_{p}, the dc multiplication factor increases with increasing α according toM_{A}(0)/M_{B}(0) = [1 - \\exp (-\\alpha w - \\alpha_{n}w +\\alpha_{p}w)]/[1 + (\\alpha_{n} - \\alpha_{p})/ \\alpha] \\cdot [1 - \\exp (-\\alpha w)],whereM_{A}(0)andM_{B}(0)are the dc multiplication factors for finite and infinite α, respectively, andwis the space charge region width.M_{B}(0)is given by(1- \\alpha_{n}w)^{-1}when\\alpha_{n} = \\alpha_{p}and by[\\exp (-\\alpha_{n}w)-\\alpha_{p}/ \\alpha-{n}]^{-1}when\\alpha_{n} \\gg \\alpha_{p}. 2) The cutoff frequency fcodoes not in any case depend on α but depends on αnand αpand on an \"effective scattering-limited velocity\" ve, defined asv_{n}v_{p}/(v_{n}+v_{p}). For\\alpha_{n} = \\alpha_{p}, the cutoff frequency is given byf_{co}\\simeq3v_{e}/[\\piwM_{B}(0)]\\simeq3\\alpha_{n}\\v_{e}/[\\pi M_{B}(0)]. For\\alpha_{n} \\gg \\alpha_{p}, f_{co}is greatly improved and is given byf_{co}\\simeq\\alpha_{n}\\v_{e}/[2\\piw \\alpha_{p}M_{B}(0)]."
"The positive- and negative-resistance characteristics of the avalanche-injection diode are derived from a set of fundamental equations. The field dependence of the ionization rate-constant, the resistivity of the avalanching region, and the injected current are taken into account to compute the final voltage-current characteristics. From these characteristics, the transient electrical time constant for switching is estimated. The discussions of the injection-stimulated avalanche are extended to a transistor for pulse generation at a high repetition rate. Sharp pulses as fast as 500 MHz have been observed with this \"injection-controlled avalanche thyristor.\" The device is suitable for pulse amplification. Also realized are negative resistances in both emitter and collector characteristics, which also operate very rapidly. Discussions are speculatively extended to the possibility of a repetition rate as high as 1000 MHz."
"The effect of surface fields on the breakdown voltage of planar silicon diodes is studied experimentally and theoretically. It is shown that the breakdown voltage can be modulated over a very wide range by the application of an external surface field and that it tends to saturation at a maximum and at a minimum value as the gate voltage is varied in such a way as to deplete the lowly doped and highly doped sides of the junction, respectively. Both the high- and the low-voltage saturation of the breakdown voltage appear to be due to the formation of field-induced junctions which prevent further variation in the shape of the depletion region, and hence the breakdown voltage. Between these two extremes, the breakdown voltage is found to be approximately given byBV=mV_{G}+constant, where VGis the gate-to-substrate potential. The slopemapproaches unity for low substrate impurity concentrations and for small oxide thicknesses. Numerical solutions of the two-dimensional potential distribution problem give results which are in general agreement with the above experimental observations."
"A new type of Vidicon has been developed which uses magnetic focus and electrostatic deflection. Since both fields are superimposed in the same space, Focus Projection and Scanning (FPS) is accomplished simultaneously. In this way, Vidicon tubes of very compact size can be realized (typically a format of 1 inch by 4½ inches overall). The electron optics of this FPS system is outlined. It is demagnifying and yields excellent landing and edge-focus performance. Signal output is high (0.5 µA), and resolution in excess of 800 TV lines has been realized in a 1-inch envelope with 350 volts as the highest voltage. For a tube of given size, various performance factors such as resolution, shading, and deflection sensitivity can be balanced by design such as to enhance some factors at the expense of others. This mutual interdependence is briefly discussed. It is also shown that the ceiling of performance for this combination of crossed fields is inherently higher than for similar devices using sequential, rather than simultaneous, focusing and deflection."
"For the above-named work, which appeared on pages 692-700 of the October, 1966, issue of this Transactions, the paragraph on page 696 which contains Eqs. (1) through (3) is corrected, revising these equations."
"The authors of the above-named work, which appeared on pages 651-655 of the August/September, 1966, issue of this Transactions, note that Equations (10) and (16) are incorrect as originally given. Revised versions are provided."
"Noise-figure expressions for crossed-field amplifiers are presented in a compact and unified form by making use of normal-mode amplitudes. Expressions are given for space-charge-wave amplifiers and cyclotron-wave amplifiers, and are applicable for both forward- and backward-wave amplifiers when the power gain appropriate to each amplifier is used."
"It is the aim of this correspondence to give noise measurements for p-i-n diodes. As will be seen, the results are comparable to those obtained for normal p-n diodes."
"An extension of an earlier analysis by the author gives results which predict a gain enhancement in a crossed-field amplifier via discontinuities. The discontinuities are introduced into the slowwave structure as short drift-tube sections. The resultant gain is larger than could be obtained without the interspersed drift-tube sections, i.e., larger than would be obtained with an equivalent length slow-wave structure. It can be shown that the mechanism is neither a velocity jump nor a diocotron phenomenon. The discontinuity must be located where the three waves - attenuating, growing, and constant amplitude - are comparable in magnitude. If the discontinuity is introduced where the growing wave is dominant, the usual result is obtained, i.e., the growing wave just beyond the discontinuity suffers a loss when compared with its value immediately prior to the discontinuity. At the beam exit from the drift-tube region all three waves are excited even if the growing wave was dominant prior to the discontinuity. It is then possible to insert a series of alternating drift-tube discontinuities and slow-wave structures and utilize the gain mechanism. The discontinuities must be followed, ultimately, by a long slow-wave structure region where the growing wave will become dominant. If this is not done, the total circuit voltage, which is represented by the sumof the voltages at the circuit of the three waves, will be small and the advantages of boosting the growing wave are lost."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"Surface elastic-wave propagation, transduction, and amplification (in a piezoelectric semiconductor) are discussed with emphasis on characteristics useful in electronic devices. Computed curves show the dependence on distance from the surface of the elastic and the electric fields associated with surface elastic-wave propagation in cadmium sulfide. The interaction impedance, relating the external electric field to power flow, is computed for propagation on the basal plane of CdS and found to be low in comparison with values characteristic of electromagnetic slow-wave circuits. Amplification with a continuous drift field in cadmium sulfide is reported, and differences between surface- and bulk-wave amplifiers are discussed. Some operating characteristics and fabrication techniques for making electrode transducers on piezoelectric crystals are given, together with experimental results on several passive surface-wave devices."
"The problem of determining the necessary impurity distribution function which will minimize the minority carrier emitter-to-collector transit time is considered. The use of this optimum profile affords a possibility of improvement in the overall high-frequency performance of diodes and transistors. A simple one-dimensional geometry is assumed, and the drift and diffusion components of minority current are considered. The mobility is assumed independent of electric field and is approximated by\\mu =a_{0} - b_{0} \\ln N(x). When optimum doping is used, the resulting electric field is found to be a monotonically decreasing function over the base region. When the ratio of impurity densities at the boundaries of the base region is 103, the minority current is primarily drift over most of the base region and the base cutoff frequency is approximately 6.5 times higher than the value resulting when the base is uniformly doped."
"The solution of Poisson's equation and the equation of motion by numerical methods is discussed. By considering the truncation error due to the use of difference equations in the one-dimensional case, it is shown, on the basis of a perturbation theory, that the error in the solution is proportional to the mesh sizeh. This theory is shown to be in good agreement with numerical solutions obtained on a computer. A correction formula is then derived which makes it possible, by obtaining sointions for two different mesh sizes haand hb, to form a space-charge-flow solution accurate to second order inh. It is also shown that more accurate forms of the difference equation may be obtained to represent the steady space-charge flow. By these various means, it is possible to increase the accuracy of numerical solutions by an order of magnitude or more. Thus, by using a coarse mesh, but better accuracy, the speed of computation may be considerably increased."
"Current bunching calculations based on the disk electron model are used to determine the effect of drift length, beam radius, and beam perveance on the power conversion efficiency of a two-cavity klystron. In a 2.5 × 10-6perveance klystron, a loss in power output exceeding one decibel results when a drift length shorter than 0.08λqis used. Power conversion efficiency is found to be reduced by 5 to 10 points in beams where normalized beam radius\\gamma blies in the range from 0.3 to 0.1. The loss of efficiency due to perveance in an optimum klystron design is found to be given approximately by the expression\\Delta_{\\eta}=0.0606 \\sqrt {\\mu}{P}, where Δηis expressed in percentage points, and\\mu Pis the microperveance of the beam. In a 2.5 × 10-6perveance beam, the power conversion efficiency is reduced by ten percentage points from its ballistic value of 58.2 percent, indicating that previously published work is in error by a factor of two."
"A new method of measurement of the shot-noise reduction factor at microwave frequencies is described. In this method, the reduction factor is measured by using a traveling-wave phototube with oxide-coated cathode, on which an amplitude-modulated laser light is projected. The photodetected outputs, with and without the space-charge cloud near the cathode, are compared. The shot-noise reduction factor is calculated from the ratio of both outputs. Measuring frequencies (1320 and 2640 MHz), beam current density, cathode temperature, and beam-forming-electrode voltage are varied in this measurement. The shot-noise reduction factor tends to small values at lower frequency, and goes to unity at higher frequency than the plasma frequency at the potential minimum. The experimental results agree in general with the theoretical calculations done by Whinnery, Tien, and Moshman. The physical meaning of these results is interpreted as a plasma oscillation at the potential minimum. Also, the relation between the \"Currie gun\" and the shot-noise reduction is discussed."
"A general formula is derived for gain of a distributed amplifier using nonuniform lines but with image impedance match at each connection. A study of the gain formula shows that the rise of gain can be eliminated by having different propagation functions for the sections. Thus a new method of constructing amplifiers having constant gain is obtained. The new amplifier also shows pronounced improvement in transient response. In order to verify some of the theoretical predictions, an experimental amplifier of this type was built, and its characteristics studied. It is found that the theoretical calculations and the experimental results are nearly matched."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"Models of electronic devices have to express the physical structure of the device, represent its significant properties, and lead to useful equivalent circuits for circuit analysis. The criteria by which a model can be said to achieve each of these three functions are explored and it is shown, with particular reference to transistors, that the demands of each function are so different that no previously proposed model is wholly satisfactory. The wisdom of trying to achieve a general theory of modelling is consequently questioned, and it is suggested that a deliberate separation might be preferable."
"A general model for the avalanche photodiode is presented. It is shown that the diode consists of four regions: 1) guard ring, 2) uniform avalanche region, 3) high-field absorption region and 4) zero-field absorption region. Expressions are given for the ac quantum efficiency, the dc quantum efficiency, and the transit time cutoff frequency. Material requirements are discussed. Based on an entire detector system, an expression is derived for the signal-to-noise ratio. An example is given with the result that a noise-equivalent power (NEP) of 10-12W/Hz1/2is obtained with an optimum avalanche gain of approximately 23."
"The feasibility of a fast, high-gain photodetector based on the phenomenon of avalanche multiplication in semiconductors has been investigated. Based on the process of carrier multiplication in a high electric field, criteria for the design of an optimized avalanche photodiode and for the choice of the best semiconductor material are developed. The device theory of an optimized, realizable avalanche photodiode is presented. A practical silicon device optimized for the detection of light with a wavelength of 9000Å is suggested and design parameters are presented. Details of the fabrication process are given and the performance of experimental devices is compared to the device theory presented. The results of the study indicate that it is possible to achieve a silicon photomultiplier with a quantum efficiency-bandwidth product of the order of 100 GHz for the detection of light up to a wavelength of over 9000Å."
"The parametric effects in the microwave Read avalanche diode are studied using a simplified one-dimensional model. The signals of frequencies ω1and ω2interact with each via the pumping wave of frequency\\omega_{0} = \\omega_{1} + \\omega_{2}, through the nonlinearity in avalanche. This paper shows the range in which the microwave Read avalanche diode has the parametric negative resistance, some typical values of the impedance matrix elements of the microwave Read avalanche diode, and shows that the small-signal impedance locus of the microwave Read avalanche diode on Smith chart coincides approximately with Kita's experimental results."
"The temperature of a transistor can be determined from the emitter-base voltage versus collector-current characteristic. This characteristic was used for studying the stability of parallel pairs of high-frequency high-power transistors. The thermal effect may cause the incremental emitter-base resistance to assume a negative value. This, in turn, will cause the current flow in a pair of transistors to be asymmetrical. The transition from symmetrical to asymmetrical current flow occurs at a power level which is determined by the nonshared thermal and electrical resistances. Stability to a higher current level can be obtained by increasing the nonshared emitter or base resistances or reducing the collector voltage. Higher currents can also be obtained by reducing the nonshared thermal resistances which indicates close thermal coupling between the two units is desirable."
"Electron trajectory analog measurements for image tubes show that the serious aberrations of distortion and curvature of the image field, inherent to flat unipotential photocathodes, can be reduced by using a flat gradient cathode. Similar potential distributions as with curved cathodes are thus established. The resulting curvatures of the equipotential surfaces in the vicinity of the flat gradient cathode can be changed within a relatively wide range by varying the potentials at the gradient-cathode terminals. Pincushion distortion rapidly vanishes and even becomes barrel-shaped with increasing cathode center potential. Adequate reduction of the imagefield defect can be achieved only at the cost of introducing barrel-shaped distortion."
"Oxide-coated cathodes have been used widely in electron tubes due to its high-emission efficiency at low operating temperatures. The maximum limit for dc emission of oxide cathodes has been considered at 0.5 A/cm2due to limitations of sparking or overheating due to Joule effect. We have tested successfully oxide cathodes at operating temperatures of 1000°K at current levels from 1.0 to 4.0 A/cm2with considerable life. Different types of oxide cathodes were tested in planar diodes and triodes. It was found that the operation limitations of an oxide cathode in a triode are far more severe than that in a diode. Diode testing at high current density dc was performed, while triode testing at dc, RF, and pulse conditions were carried out. Experimenting with high current density oxide cathodes in diodes indicated some limitations in the presently used cathode materials only above 4.0 A/cm2. In triodes where the limitation was found at present at 2.0 A/cm2, several interesting effects occurred. Grid overloading and beaming effects due to the closely spaced grids, produced intrusions on the anode face and poisoning on the cathode. Various grid materials have been tested and results are compared. Triodes in high power RF oscillators have been tested at about 1.0 A/cm2average current density. In this mode of operation, the limiting factor is the grid design and its materials. Evaporation of the grid materials may cause in this mode sudden and catastrophic failure of the tube. Evaporated grid materials deposited on the insulators result in cracking the structure during RF operation. Experiments will be discussed which showed that this effect can be avoided by the proper selection of materials."
"Expressions for the beam-loading conductance for an electron beam have been derived in Branch and Vlasov. This paper shows that the beam-loading susceptance is the Hilbert transform of the conductance. The expressions for the admittance of the ideal gridded gap and the gridless gap are then derived. In particular, curves of G/G0and B/G0are presented for gridless gaps with different gap lengths and with different beam sizes."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"A theory is given for the design of junction diodes which can simultaneously exhibit high photosensitivity and a reverse-biased dark charge-storage time greater than 1/30 second with calculations specifically carried out for silicon and germanium photo-junctions. The charge-storage problem associated with the use of narrower bandgap materials as vidicon targets is thus overcome, and a microarray of such junctions can be used as the photosensitive target at room temperature. Experimental data are presented for single element photo junctions in silicon, constructed according to the theoretical specifications for obtaining long time dark state charge storage. It is established that present state-of-the-art microelectronic technology is applicable to the production of the mosaic junction arrays necessary for constructing a completed camera tube."
"The paper describes a tube in which the intensity of a short hollow beam of electrons is modulated by varying the electric field in the emitter-collector space. The modulating electrode (gate) surrounds the beam but intercepts only a marginal number of electrons because an axial magnetic field prevents divergence of the beam. In spite of the relatively low gm, very high power gains are possible in the kHz and MHz region. At higher frequencies, transit-time effects reduce seriously both gain and efficiency. Operation at UHF is possible when high voltages and close spacings are used but this necessitates the use of high current density cathodes such as porous tungsten stypes. Rather low knee voltages can be obtained if returning electrodes are reflected towards the center of the emitter. Field-Effect tubes show advantages above gridded tubes in applications where wide load-impedance fluctuations can be expected and where extreme ruggedness is required such as sonar, induction, and dielectric heating."
"A novel field-theoretic approach is presented to treat the system composed of a drift tube, a gridless modulating gap and an electron beam. It is mentioned that no space-charge wave can propagate just to the front of the plane of discontinuity of the electronic waveguide. The field component is expressed by a Fourier integral, and the amplitude of any of the excited space-charge waves is calculated from the residue at the corresponding pole, in a way similar to the one used for a passive waveguide. The analysis is applicable to the case of an arbitrary field distribution over the gap, not only the single gap but also the multiple gap. It is shown that the ratio of the amplitude of any excited space-charge wave to that of the lowest is independent of the field distribution over the gap. Finally, the beam loading is derived from the standpoint of the space-charge wave theory and is compared with this by the ballistic theory."
"Beam entrance conditions were investigated for PPM focusing of a convergent electron beam emerging from a cathode partially shielded from the magnetic field. The investigation was carried out with the aid of an analog computer and has resulted in a useful design procedure. A discussion of the theoretical aspects of the design procedure is presented along with verifying computer results. Experimental results which show close agreement with computer results are also presented."
"The chargistor, invented by Yu [1], is here found to consist of a somewhat different structure. He reported the mechanism of its operation in terms of both minority carrier exclusion and high level injection. Three types of electrical behavior are distinguished. Characteristic curves, potential plots, and transconductance data are given."
"A small-signal analysis of an avalanching semiconductor junction is presented for unequal electron and hole ionization rates and saturated drift velocities. The model consists of a thin ionization layer in a thicker depletion layer. The ionization rates are assumed independent of distance in the ionization layer and zero elsewhere. This analysis is an improvement of Read's, and is sufficiently realistic to predict most of the small-signal characteristics shown by the computer analysis of Misawa. The linearized differential equations describing the ionization layer are solved with the ionization rates perturbed by the ac electric field. The ac junction impedance is calculated from the solutions of the differential equations. Although the small-signal analysis does not predict the conversion efficiency of an avalanche diode oscillator, it does predict the threshold conditions for oscillation. It may also help predict the conditions for maximum efficiency through knowledge of the input power and the Q of the diode at the onset of oscillation."
"A convenient method for studying the small-signal impedance of a bulk semiconductor amplifier having a nonuniform doping profile is presented. The small-signal impedance is represented as a two-dimensional sum of the interaction impedance which represents the electrical interaction between various sections in the amplifier due to the transport effect. When the diffusion current is negligible, the two-dimensional plot of the magnitude of the interaction impedance shows which part of it is important. The two-dimensional representation may provide a convenient method of synthesizing the doping profile of a bulk semiconductor amplifier which gives a desired impedance characteristic."
"The bilateral switch is a new semiconductor device which abruptly lowers its impedance as a result of the application of a voltage of sufficient amplitude. The switch is used for pulse generation, and more specifically for the precise firing of Triacs and silicon controlled rectifiers. The switch is in the form of a monolithic circuit of the planar passivated type. The tested device has a switching voltage of 6.4 V at 25°C, and the temperature coefficient is less than 0.05 percent/°C. The dc forward current is 200 mA, the peak forward current is 1 A, based on a 10-µs pulsewidth, 1-percent duty cycle, and an ambient temperature of 100°C. The paper describes the principle of operation, the basic design, and shows test data."
"The measurement of the recovery period in multistage receiver protectors is analyzed. It is shown that the accepted IEEE definition is unsatisfactory for the recent class of fast-recovery receiver protectors. We consider here the problem encountered when the recovery period is roughly equal to the falltime of the main transmitter pulse. It is found that accurate measurements are possible only when the reference point for the recovery measurement is taken at the singular power point located on the falling edge of the transmitter pulse which is equal to the extinguishing power of the stage which has the longest recovery period. Consequently, an alternate definition is offered which is adequate for all classes of duplexers and receiver protectors."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"The Poynting theorem, or equation of continuity relating energy density and power flow, is extended to include the effects of diffusion and collisions. It is shown that the presence of the thermal power due to diffusion is accompanied by an increase in electrokinetic power. The effects of collisions on the electrokinetic power and energy density are examined in detail in the absence of diffusion. It is found that the kinetic power is zero in isolated streams when collisions are frequent (\\nu > 2\\omega_{p}). However, when such streams couple to \"circuit-like\" positive-energy waves (as in the acoustic amplifier) the stream's kinetic power becomes finite; in particular, it becomes negative if the stream drifts faster than the wave. Thus the usual picture, used in collision-free theory, in which the active wave must carry negative power, is preserved. It is also shown that, on the other hand, if the stream is lossless but interacts with a lossy and nonpropagating medium (as in a stationary collisional plasma), then the stream's finite-energy waves are coupled by the lossy medium. In contrast to the previous case where both systems propagate, it is now the negative-energy wave that grows. It is found that the electrokinetic energy density in a collision-dominant stream is negative for both modes due to collisional losses."
"The discrepancies between measured and calculated small-signal space-charge wavelengths are discussed. It is shown that conventional methods of calculation are inadequate, causing errors up to 40 percent in a typical case. It is demonstrated that these errors cannot be explained by beam scalloping action, and that they are most severe when a high-perveance beam is used at low voltages with a high magnetic field under conditions of low interception. Although these effects would not be noticed in klystrons with relatively short drift lengths, they may in many cases explain the critical variation of gain and efficiency with magnetic field. A more accurate method of calculating space-charge wavelengths is developed, and the effectiveness of this method is demonstrated by a comparison with measurements."
"The aberrations of a magnetically deflected electron beam are investigated in detail using an IBM 7094 computer. The computer programming is applicable to the case of one-dimensional deflection through small angles. The beam is treated as a group of electrons having no internal interactions, no energy spread, and producing no external fields. The field distributions that would produce minimum total aberration for a range of specified working distances, maximum deflection distances, coil widths, and coil openings are calculated. The aberrations produced by these ideal fields and by fields that deviate from the model are predicted. Typically, for a working distance of 3 in (7.62 cm), field coverage of 11 mm, and beam convergence angle of 3.54 × 10-3rad, the maximum increase in spot diameter is of the order of 0.05 micron. Theoretical limitations on the minimum aberration of a specific deflection system are established. The aberration is expected to be further minimized if dynamic astigmatic correction, as described in this paper, is applied."
"The results of noise measurements conducted on a helix-type traveling-wave amplifier containing a magnetron injection gun are described. A minimum noise figure of 15.3 dB was observed at 760 MHz with an approximate beam power of 1600 watts. The noise figure was minimized by an adjustment of the magnetic field, which determines the transit time of the electrons through a drift region. This optimizes the magnitude and phase of the standing noise waves at the helix input."
"Based on Geurst's treatment of the high-frequency value of the admittances of the junction field-effect transistor, the high-frequency noise of the device has been computed, assuming that the noise source is of thermal origin. By applying an appropriate series expansion of the current it is possible to express the noise of the drain and gate current in terms of known quantities, as steady-state transconductance, gate capacitance, and frequency. At low frequencies the noise spectrum of the drain current is independent of the frequency and is much larger than the noise of the gate current; however, at high frequencies the noise spectra of the gate and drain current both vary by ω2and are of the same order of magnitude."
"The cross-modulation behavior of a transistor is studied for the case where it is operated in the VHF region and gain control is effected by driving it into saturation. It is shown that the observed increase in cross-modulation can be attributed to the fact that in the saturated condition the stored charge in the transistor will depend noulinearly on the collector current. The cross-modulation factor is calculated assuming an arbitrary functional relation between stored charge and current. A relation between the cross-modulation factor and the change of the cutoff frequency with current then will exist, allowing experimental verification. Close agreement is found between measured and calculated values."
"The lateral geometry transistor has shown itself to be highly useful in the realization of low-frequency integrated circuits. This simple structure has been limited essentially to dc applications, however, by bandwidth and switching time performance. The p-n-p device to be described in this paper substantially overcomes these deficiencies by the addition of an n+ diffusion directly beneath the emitter region. As a result of the steeper gradient at the bulk, or planar, portion of the emitter-base junction, injection occurs primarily near the surface. It is possible to control the dimensions of the buried layer such that injection of carriers greater than a few micrometers from the collector will be minimized. A further consequence of the n+ region is the introduction of a graded base such that minority carrier transport is enhanced. The improved transistor structure has demonstrated the feasibility of obtaining an f_{T} of 10 MHz to 20 MHz at collector currents of 100 µA and rise, fall, and storage times in the tens of nanoseconds."
"This paper examines the static behavior of certain p-n junction devices that are governed by Van Roosbroeck's differential equations. It is found that this set of first-order differential equations accurately predicts semiconductor static behavior in both the bulk and the transition regions. The purpose of this model is to find the hole and electron concentrations, hole and electron currents, and electric field as functions of position and external excitation. For part of the paper, use is made of the quasi-neutrality approximation in the bulk regions and the quasi-equilibrium Boltzmann relations (QEBR) which relate the hole and electron concentrations at transition region edges to the applied voltage across the transition region. The unijunction transistor with intrinsic base, p-i and p-in diodes, and a new current gain device are examined using these concepts, and the results are compared with experiment. By applying boundary conditions only at the ohmic contacts, a p-i diode problem is solved on a computer. One especially important point in this problem is that quasi-neutrality of the base and the QEBR are not imposed upon the problem. However, the final results indicate that these concepts are good approximations, except for extremely short devices."
"The development of a high-efficiency, tunable ferrite frequency doubler operating at 17.0 GHz is described. The optimum efficiencies are from 30 to 40 percent, with incident power levels up to 10 kW peak, 3.0 watts average. The doubler consists of a yttrium-iron-garnet (YIG) disk located at the junction ofX-and Ku-band rectangular waveguides. Attempts to scale the doubler into the millimeter range are in progress."
"A detailed analysis is presented of the reverse transient in a p-n-p-n triode when a reverse pulse is applied to its gate. Charge analysis as proposed by Baker et al. for p-n-p-n diodes has been extended to cover triodes. Analytical expressions for all phases of the transient consisting of two storage and two fall times have been obtained. Lateral biasing effects due to current flow in the gate have been neglected to simplify the analysis."
"A method is presented which allows the gate breakdown of a MOSFET to be nondestructively determined. The method applies a linear ramp voltage across the gate, allowing the leakage component to be easily separated from the capacitive currents. In this manner, the leakage component can be measured before it becomes large enough to cause a destructive dielectric breakdown in the gate oxide."
"Three-terminal GaAs devices have oscillated coherently at frequencies between 60 MHz and 2500 MHz. Continuous power outputs at room temperature are generally less than 1 mW. Typical units are fabricated from GaAs p-n diodes by sawing into the n side with an 0.0005- or 0.001-inch tungsten wire to a depth close to the depletion region. The resultant device has an n contact on either side of the cut and one control contact on the p region. At a threshold bias field of approximately 4 kV/cm in the narrow neck between the sawcut and the depletion region, coherent microwave or submicrowave oscillations commence. The frequency of oscillation is primarily a function of external circuitry and device size, but can also be controlled by a bias applied to the p electrode."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"The fabrication of pulse-driven, diffused silicon p-n junction avalanche oscillators which have been operated at frequencies from 15 to 341 GHz is described. The experimental behavior of a large number of oscillators has been correlated with readily measurable properties of the p-n junctions, leading to first-order design parameters for construction of oscillators of this type usable at various frequencies into the submillimeter-wave region. Maximum peak power outputs ranged from 2 watts near 15 GHz to 75 mW at 115 GHz; the estimated peak power at 300 GHz was of the order of 1 mW."
"The derivation of a set of design formulas for predicting the impedance of diffused p-i-n diodes as a function of reverse bias voltage is presented. The diode is divided into five regions, and appropriate approximations are made in each region to simplify the integration of resistive and reactive contributions to the total impedance. Using these formulas, curves of series resistance and capacitance versus voltage are computed for an experimental diode reported by Senhouse. The curves agree well with others obtained using more complicated methods of integration. In addition to being useful for design calculations, the formulas derived offer insight as to the effects of frequency on diode impedance and the relative contributions of the various regions of the diode to the total impedance."
"GaAs p-n junction photocurrent response is obtained from an optical microprobe with a dynamic range of at least three decades and a light-spot diameter of about 1.3 µm. The results are found to correlate well with the appropriate theoretical response which includes surface recombination and assumed infinite absorption coefficient. Minority-carrier diffusion lengths computed from the data are typically 3.5 and 0.7 µm for holes in n-type material doped 1017and 1.4×1018cm-3and 1 µm for electrons in >1018cm-3doped p-type material. Estimates of carrier lifetimes are made and the deviation of surface recombination velocity between devices is demonstrated."
"A new design for a series spark-gap array for energy diverter usage has been developed. The electrical circuit of this array differs from previously reported energy diverter designs in two respects. First, the capacitors from each electrode to ground are eliminated, and second, the interelectrode capacitances of the gaps are not all equal. By varying the interelectrode capacitances of each gap in accordance with predetermined requirements, it was possible to study several triggering modes. In particular, two triggering modes were investigated; a \"constant overvoltage\" mode and an \"increasing overvoltage\" mode."
"A method is devised for determining the eigenvalue spectra of the characteristic noise matrix of electron beams with continuous velocity distributions. It is found that for an electron beam with a half-Maxwellian velocity distribution, all positive eigenvalues are equal to kTΔf while all negative eigenvalues approach zero. This finding is in agreement with the phenomenon of noise reduction in an electron beam drifting at a low average velocity (an average velocity comparable to the velocity spread)."
"The electrical breakdown of titania in a vacuum using static electric fields is investigated experimentally, by examination of current and temperature variation at different applied voltages. Thermal instability is found to occur at voltages above a critical value. This leads to sufficiently high temperatures to cause the reduction of the titania into a lower-order semiconducting oxide, which carries the breakdown current. The breakdown of titania and a vacuum gap in series is also investigated. Evidence gathered from temperature and current readings suggests that, at high voltages, part of the voltage originally across the vacuum gap appears across the titania. Evidence to support this theory is obtained from measurements of the mechanical force appearing across the vacuum gap which enable the voltage redistribution to be calculated. The voltage redistribution is due to an excess charge appearing on the surface of the ceramic, due to pre-breakdown currents in the vacuum gap. When the voltage across the titania reaches a large enough value, thermal instability occurs leading to breakdown of the titania."
"A generalized turn-on criterion is desired for a p-n-p-n triode. Experimental results are in agreement with theoretical predictions."
"When an electron beam interacts with a time-varying electric field, it is usual to ignore the effect of the induced magnetic field. It is shown that this may cause errors at microwave frequencies even for slow electrons. The particular case of electrons traversing a microwave cavity is examined in detail."
"Analysis of the temperature dependence of silicon transistor emitter-base junction forward characteristics has yielded information about the recombination centers that give rise to the \"non-ideal\" component of the base current. The recombination centers are either slightly above midgap with electron capture cross-section much larger than hole capture cross-section, or slightly below midgap with hole capture cross-section much larger than electron capture cross-section."
"In the above-named work (ibid., vol. EC-14, pp. 174-175, March 1967), on page 175 the diode admittance Ys expression is corrected. The maximum line length is then affected so a corrected expression replaces the one originally given."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"Over certain ranges of frequency, bulk negative-resistance diodes can act as amplifiers or as oscillators depending on the doping, length between contacts, and external circuit. This behavior can be divided into four classes: Gunn oscillation, stable amplification, LSA oscillation, and bias-circuit oscillation. The four classes of behavior are discussed generally with references to the more detailed papers within this issue."
"Calculations of small-signal impedance have been made for Gunn diodes over a broad range of length and bias current density, taking into account the spatial inhomogeneity of the dc electric field. The nature of the impedance functions was found to vary with the above parameters, and was distinctly different for amplifying diodes, oscillatory diodes, and diodes biased below the threshold for active behavior. Nyquist stability analysis was used to relate the impedance behavior to the effects of circuit and bias level on oscillatory and amplifying behavior. The results of this analysis are found to be in good agreement with the experimental observations of other authors."
"The microwave circuit characteristics of bulk GaAs transit-time mode and limited space-charge accumulation (LSA) mode oscillators have been evaluated experimentally and theoretically. Experimental measurements were performed with a waveguide-coaxial microwave circuit having two experimental degrees of freedom in which the circuit radiation impedance at the device contacts was evaluated by a dyadic Green's function method. Experiments conducted in three rectangular waveguide circuits at fixed bias voltage have established that the LSA mode frequency tuning range is determined by the magnitude and variation of the circuit series inductive reactance XLrelative to the device low-field resistance R0. At a bias voltage which is twice threshold the tuning range is given by1/2.4\\leq X_{L}/R_{0}\\leq 2.4. No fixed, linear equivalent circuit characterizes the LSA mode. Analysis and experimental results indicate that the device impedance of small-signal transit-time mode oscillators changes from a passive parallel RC impedance well below threshold to an impedance just above threshold which can be approximated by a series RLC circuit. The series L and C decrease linearly with transit-time mode harmonic order number."
"The complex admittance behavior is calculated for a bulk negative conductivity semiconductor, such as n-type GaAs, in the limit of zero doping and zero trapping, when all electrons are due to space-charge limited emissions from the cathode. Two different approximations are used: in the first, in closed analytical form, electron diffusion is neglected; in the second, by computer simulation of the internal space-charge dynamics, it is included. Both approximations agree at low frequencies where they predict a positive device conductance. Both predict a negative conductance, of slightly different magnitude, at frequencies around the reciprocal electron transit time. At higher frequencies the diffusionless theory predicts slowly damped conductance oscillations; diffusion effects strongly increase the damping."
"The conditions necessary for operation in the limited space-charge accumulation (LSA) mode, and the efficiencies that can be obtained, have been calculated for a range of low-field mobilities in GaAs. The analysis follows the theory published by Copeland, but the expression chosen to describe the velocity field characteristics allows direct solution of the integrals that occur in the theory, and the extension of the results to include GaAs with differing values of low-field mobility. It has therefore been possible to present equations for the various parameters of interest, which are a function of low-field mobility. The results of the calculations indicate that efficiency increases with low-field mobility, but the range of values of electron concentration/frequency becomes more restricted as the mobility is increased."
"For maximum dc to RF power conversion efficiency, the dc and RF electric-field amplitudes must be properly related throughout the volume of a limited space-charge accumulation (LSA) diode. Space-charge due to a few percent fluctuation in the relative doping can distort the electric field enough to reduce the maximum attainable efficiency. Standing-wave effects with the diode limit the width in the direction of wave propagation to about 0.04 free-space wavelengths."
"Peak pulse powers of 350 watts, with 3 percent efficiency at X-band frequencies, were obtained from large volume GaAs devices operating in the LSA mode. Experimental dependence of the LSA mode on circuit loading, applied voltage, and the ratio of carrier concentration to frequency are reported. The results are shown to be in excellent agreement with Copeland's theoretical calculations. The high-current state frequently observed in GaAs samples is shown to result from impact ionization in the high-field portion of dipole domains. A simple expression is derived relating the sample length and carrier concentration to the voltage at which switching to the high-current state occurs. The prevention of high-field domains to permit LSA operation of long samples at high voltages is briefly discussed."
"Determination of the current density/field strength characteristic of n-GaAs in the range of negative differential mobility is made difficult by field distortions and instabilities. In the present work these problems are eliminated by using microwave heating of the electrons. Various microwave techniques and the results obtained by them are described. Data on materials of various conductivities are presented. The influence of energy relaxation and material properties are discussed."
"It has been found that raising the applied bias on a long sample containing a high-field domain can result in a temporary increase in material conductivity over the region of the sample traversed by the domain while the higher bias was applied. The effect can be explained in terms of intrinsic impact ionization within the domain in the presence of a deep impurity level. The measured decay time of the \"memory\" is consistent with a capture cross section of about 10-15cm2, for electrons at the deep level, indicating that the empty center is neutral. Conversely, the filled center will have a high capture cross section for holes. Following intrinsic impact ionization in the domain the mechanism is believed to involve the rapid capture of holes at the filled centers and a subsequent relatively slow return of the extra electrons to the empty centers. The deep impurity level is thus responsible for fixing the memory in position in the material and also for inhibiting the emission of recombination radiation during impact ionization."
"Linear microwave amplifiers with continuous power outputs of 100 mW have been constructed utilizing the frequency-independent negative conductance observed externally in Gunn oscillators. This negative conductance is exhibited only in samples containing propagating dipole layers, in other words,n_{0} . Lmust be larger than 1012cm-2for n-GaAs. The output power obtainable from this amplifier is substantially larger than that from a subcritically doped GaAs amplifier (n_{0} . L < 10^{12}cm-2) becausen_{0} . Lcan be increased. Power output and efficiency are discussed in terms of n0andL. The upper-frequency limit for amplification is determined by the time the domain takes to readjust itself after a change of external voltage which leads to an upper limit for thef. Lproduct (about 108cm/s). The essential feature of the amplifier circuit is to provide both a short circuit at the Gunn oscillation frequency and a broadband circuit at the signal frequency. An average gain of 3 dB was exhibited from 5.5 GHz to 6.5 GHz. Gain compression of 1 dB occurred at 60 mW output power with 9 dB gain, while the noise figure was about 19 dB."
"The output power of a cavity-controlled Gunn oscillator has been measured at a frequency of 10 GHz, as a function of bias voltage over the temperature range 30°C to 120°C. The measurements were made using 500-ns pulses to avoid significant changes in-device temperature during a pulse, and at a duty cycle of 20:1 to maintain a low mean input power. The device was operated in a coaxial cavity made of invar, and temperature control effected by operating the cavity in an oven. It has been found that ranges of bias voltages exist over which power output and efficiency is extremely sensitive to temperature changes, and that, depending on the particular conditions, power output can either increase or decrease. The effect of increasing temperature has also been found to reduce the bias voltage required to obtain maximum power output and efficiency."
"Experiments have been performed to measure the parameters of epitaxial GaAs cavity controlled Gunn oscillators withnl \\sim 10^{12}cm-2over the frequency range of 7 to 20 GHz. It is found that individual devices exhibit a large variation of transit frequency with bias voltage and this is related to their performance in a cavity. The real and imaginary parts of the device reactance under cavity controlled operating conditions and the RF voltage swing across the device have been measured. These are discussed in the light of presently available analytical theories."
"Results are reported on 1000 diodes made from about 50 GaAs epitaxial layers. The layers are classified for quality according to the power output of the average device, and the correlation between quality and epitaxial layer thicknessland resistivity ρ are examined. It is shown that the quality cannot be linked to the thickness or resistivity alone, but is closely connected with the ratio of thickness to resistivity. Ninety-five percent of all slices with4.5 < l / \\rho < 10yield good results. It is shown that this is in good agreement with theory."
"This paper describes the generation of various waveforms with bulk semiconductor (Gunn-effect) oscillators having non-uniform cross sections or connected to external resistive circuits by means of small contacts attached to the bulk between the cathode and anode. In nonuniform oscillators, if the variation of the cross section is gradual, a high-field domain is equivalent to a constant current density generator moving at constant velocity. From this simple model, oscillating current waveforms are closely related to the cross-sectional area of the device. The oscillating frequency can be tuned or switched by the bias voltage. In multiterminal oscillators, the cathode current changes whenever a domain passes one of the small contacts connected to the external circuit. The waveforms can be controlled by changing the external circuit parameters. The characteristics of these devices operating in the frequency range from 50 to 150 MHz were extensively studied by changing both the device configuration and the external resistances."
"We have been examining the response of n-type CdTe to pulsed electric fields. In our best units, prepared to have a uniform cross section, the current remains ohmic, to good approximation, almost to threshold. Above the threshold field of (13±2) kV/cm well-defined Gunn oscillations are observed with a spike amplitude 35-50 percent of the total current. We estimate a domain drift velocityv_{dd}=7\\times10^{6}cm/s, a field outside the domainE_{1} = 7kV/cm, and a domain fieldE_{2}\\gsim37kV/cm. After a few nanoseconds of operation, however, current runaway occurs in units showing the spiking mode of oscillation, presumably because of carrier ionization induced by the moving high-field domains."
"We describe some experimentally observed features of the Gunn effect in long samples (0.1 to 0.4 cm) of GaAs with a resistivity of 1 to 4 Ω. cm at room temperature. The normal behavior of current oscillations and the effect of inhomogeneities may be well understood qualitatively if we take into account the characteristic of the excess voltage in the high-field domain versus the electric field outside it. Thus it is shown that when a domain moves through a sample with doping inhomogeneities, its velocity remains almost constant at every point inside the specimen whereas the current fluctuation is rather large from one region to another. Fields in excess of 130 kV/cm were found to exist in domains which always present a triangular shape. Changing the starting point of a domain has been easily achieved by putting a grounded wire along the side of a long sample. We report also the following new phenomena: a) Transient changes in material conductivity in normal conditions of operation and also when a sample containing a high-field domain is subjected to an additional negative voltage spike. b) Recombination radiation in specimens with a resistivity of 1 to 4 Ω. cm operated in the trigger mode. This emission is associated with a switching of the current, and correspondingly the domain takes a new configuration in which the maximum field is only 25 kV/cm. c) Migration of tin due to the effect of the high-field domain. At each domain transit, the length of migration is about 4 Å."
"The one-dimensional small-signal analysis of avalanche transit-time diodes with distributed multiplication is reduced to the concept of two layers in cascade, each having a constant ionization rate. The interface is located in the distinguished neutral plane of equal direct electron and hole currents. In this configuration the small-signal problem is characterized by two parameters : namely the location of the neutral plane in the depletion layer and a quantity combining the ionization-rate field dependence and the total direct current density. Normalized admittance diagrams and small-signal growth rates are given which show the relative importance of the low-transit-angle mode where the frequency is smaller than the avalanche resonance frequency and the π mode extending almost to 2π for large current densities. Through a transformation the results are applicable to Read type, abrupt and uniform junctions of Si, Ge, and GaAs avalanche diodes."
"A general small-signal theory of the avalanche noise in IMPATT diodes is presented. The theory is applicable to structures of arbitrary doping profile and uses realistic (\\alpha \\neq \\betain Si) ionization coefficients. The theory accounts in a self-consistent manner for space-charge feedback effects in the avalanche and drift regions. Two single-diffusedn-pdiodes of identical doping profile, one of germanium and the other of silicon, are analyzed in detail. For description of the noise of the diodes as small-signal amplifiers the noise measureMis used. Values forMof 20 dB are obtained in germanium from effects in the depletion region only, i.e., when parasitic end region resistance is neglected. Inclusion of an assumed parasitic end resistance of one ohm for a diode of area 10-4cm2produces the following noise measure at an input power of 5×104W/cm2, and at optimum frequency: germanium 25 dB, silicon 31 dB. For comparison, a noise figure of 30 dB has been reported [1] for a germanium structure of the same doping profile as used in the calculations. Measurements of silicon diodes of the same doping profile are not available, but typically silicon diodes give 6-8 dB higher noise figures than germanium diodes of comparable doping profile."
"Microwave Si avalanche diodes with a nearly-abupt-type junction have been made. The maximum output power so far obtained in CW operation is 1.1 watts at 12 GHz with an efficiency of 7.7 percent. The maximum efficiency observed is 8.0 percent. The improved performance over the previously reportedp \\nu nstructure, for which the best result was 250 mW at 12 GHz with an efficiency of 2.8 percent results from a reduction in length of the avalanche region in the abrupt junction. In the previously reportedp \\nu ndiode the efficiency is still sharply increasing at the burnout point, while in the present diode the efficiency is nearly saturated at the burn-out point. The advantages and disadvantages of using different polarity of the diode (p on n or n on p) and different material (Ge) are given. Small-signal theory was used to analyze device operation."
"The possibility of operating several avalanche oscillator wafers in parallel to obtain higher power and/or higher efficiency CW operation is explored analytically and experimentally. Experiments show that over a wide range the efficiency is roughly proportional to the power density in the semiconductor. The power densities required for good efficiency are very high and cannot be achieved in large area junctions without an excessive temperature rise caused by the thermal spreading resistance of the heat-sink material. The scheme delineated herein considers small area wafers spaced sufficiently close electrically that they operate as a single avalanche oscillator whereas their physical separation permits essentially independent heat sinking. It has been found that, as expected, the efficiency for CW operation improves approximately inversely with the diode diameter whereas the power capability for a given size wafer increases directly with the number of such wafers employed. The relative merits of mounting diodes on copper and on diamond are discussed. Experimental work indicates that the present approach is capable of producing 10 to 15 watts CW at 14 GHz in a single oscillator with available silicon diodes."
"Two types of microwave emission from InSb plasma subjected to the crossed electric and magnetic fields were investigated experimentally. From the simultaneous measurements of Hall effect and microwave emission, the threshold condition of the one type of emission was obtained as(\\omega_{ce} \\tau_{e})^{2} \\cdot \\Delta n \\geq 3 \\times 10^{14}cm-3, where\\omega_{ce}, \\tau_{e}, and\\Delta nare electron cyclotron frequency, relaxation time, and electron-hole pair density, respectively. It was also found that the \"Hall\" mobility showed anomalous decrease above the threshold. The emission power of the other type of emission showed maximum value at several values of the applied magnetic field lower than the threshold of the noise-type emission. These characteristic magnetic fields were not influenced by current density except by slight change in the low-current density region."
"Indium Antimonide emits microwave noise when it is subjected simultaneously to parallel dc electric and magnetic fields whose values exceed certain thresholds. Comparison of the emission characteristics at 77°K with those at 4.2°K shows two major differences. 1) The threshold magnetic field at 4.2°K is approximately half of that at 77°K. 2) With increasing magnetic field the emission at 4.2°K is comprised of a background continuum upon which are superimposed equally-spaced resonant spikes. At 77°K, the background continuum only is observed. A theoretical model for the threshold characteristics is presented based on the assumption that the observed instability arises from phonon excitation by the drifting electrons."
"The propagation of cyclotron waves through InSb is studied. The frequency used was 140 GHz (λ = 2.14 mm) and the dc magnetic-field strength between 0 and 10 kG. Theory and experiments are in reasonable agreement."
"Current oscillations caused by acoustoelectric domain motion were investigated in semiconducting and photoconducting CdS at room temperature. Oscillatory behaviors of the current are closely connected with the domain motion. Four different kinds of behavior of the domain were observed in several samples. In the homogeneous semiconducting CdS, the domain is built up through local amplification of thermal phonons due to spatial fluctuations of phonon-density distribution. Its \"formation site\" depends upon the applied electric field. In the inhomogeneous ones, the domain is usually formed at the region of electric-field concentration. In the homogeneous photoconducting CdS, damped oscillations of the current were observed. The domain formation may be attributed to amplification of acoustic shock wave generated at the cathode. In the inhomogeneous ones with a high-resistivity region near the anode, the domain is formed at the high-resistivity region and it seems to be dragged by some acoustic stimulations such as shock-excited acoustic waves. Formation time of the domain was also investigated in the homogeneous semiconducting CdS. Conductivity dependence of it seems to support the quantum theory but exclude White's formulation."
"Experimental results for a Gunn oscillator with one split electrode are reported. Frequency tuning and phase locking have been obtained by applying a signal between the splits of the electrode."
"Interpulse coherence and oscillation buildup of Gunn oscillators are improved by injecting, near the start-of-oscillation frequency, a priming signal 20 to 50 dB below the output power. In addition, injected signals can trigger the oscillation when self-starting is prevented at particular load values."
"Pulsed epitaxial GaAs Gunn oscillators have been operated in resonant circuits with a power x (frequency)2product of 690 watts (GHz)2and 18.6 percent efficiency. These values represent the highest Pf2product and efficiency reported for Gunn oscillators in the quenched mode. A Gunn oscillator was operated in a resonant cavity at ambient temperatures from -50°C to 170°C with less than ± 2 dB variation in power, less than 10 percent variation in frequency and a 20 percent change in relative efficiency. In a tunable circuit, a device was operated from -85°C to 133°C with essentially constant power output. The stable operation of these devices over an extended temperature range is due to the positive temperature coefficient of resistance of the epitaxial GaAs which provides a built-in protection against thermal runaway. The highest power obtained was 143 watts at 2.20 GHz with 18.6 percent efficiency, from a device 30×30 mils in cross section with an n layer of 100 µm. A pulsed oscillator on life test has so far run 2300 hours with stable output."
"CW performance of GaAs epitaxial Gunn effect oscillators in the 3.5 to 53 GHz range is described. The n++-n-n+structure was prepared by means of vapor-phase and liquid-phase epitaxy. The maximum CW output power was 340 mW at 7.7 GHz and 7 mW at 53 GHz, respectively. Results of FM noise measurement at 10 GHz and at 50 GHz are also presented."
"Experiments on a new type of two-port, unilateral traveling-wave amplifier using subcritically doped GaAs specimens several space-charge wavelengths long are described. Net terminal gains of 2-4 dB are reported in the frequency range 700-1500 MHz. The gain is presently limited by inefficient coupling to the space-charge wave; the measured variation of phase delay between input and output terminals as a function of bias voltage is in good accord with theory, however."
"The dimensions of Gunn devices are calculated for a given maximum device temperature using the ratio of the electric field to the resistivity as a parameter, when the temperature dependence of the thermal conductivity of GaAs is taken into account. For the limiting case of two half-space heat sinks the results are presented in a diagram."
"We have observed Gunn-effect oscillations from samples of n-CdTe 25 to 450 microns long with doping levels between 5 × 1014and 5.3 × 1015cm-3. The room temperature threshold electric field for these oscillations varies from about 9500 V/cm for samples 450 microns long to about 15 000 V/cm for samples 25 microns long. For samples longer than 80 microns, the oscillation is seen as a train of spikes in current. The period of these spike waveforms increases linearly with sample length, giving a calculated value of 0.7×107cm/s for the high-field domain drift velocity. At 77°K, the threshold electric field drops to about 8000 V/cm for 150 micron samples and the domain drift velocity increases by about 25 percent. In all samples tested, a current runaway effect is observed after several cycles of oscillation, with the runaway occurring sooner for increasing voltage drive to the sample. This runaway dominates the sample behavior for driving voltages well above Gunn-effect threshold."
"A type of avalanche diode has been subjected to accelerated life test and to failure analysis. The primary failure mechanism is believed to be a form of second breakdown; no significant progressive degradation was observed."
"Experiments were performed to determine the effects of uniaxial compressive stress on the threshold current and frequency of silicon microwave avalanche diode oscillators. The presence of gold recombination-generation centers was found to have little influence on the stress sensitivity of these devices. The experimental results are qualitatively related to small-signal oscillator theory."
"Summary form only given, as follows. A new three-electrode Hall-effect geometry has been used to determine an approximate mobility value for electrons photoemitted into the conduction band of thermally grown layers of silicon dioxide. The oxide layers were grown in an air-steam atmosphere at 1100-1150°C and were from 3.5-6.6μ thick. The unusual electrode geometry was used in order to keep the electron drift path in the oxide less than the Schubweg (mean drift length before immo? ilization by deep trapping). The geometry is not easy to analyze and only approximate analyses have, thus far, been obtained. The observed effect is in all cases of the correct polarity for electrons and to a good approximation varies linearly with magnetic field strength. The values of electron mobility obtained from the measurements range from 6.8 to 62.5 cm2/V s with an average value of about 29 cm2/V s."
"Summary form only given, as follows. Experimentally, noise emissio from InSb has been observed when an electric field is applied to it in the presence of a magnetic field at 77°K in n-type InSb. More recently, the experiments at 200°K has been repeated in essentially intrinsic InSb, where far stronger oscillations were observed. A theory has been carried out which predicts that when electrons and holes drift with their velocities at an angle to each other, in the presence of a transverse magnetic field, there can be an instability even in a collision-dominated medium. This is what would occur near a contact which shorts out the Hall field in a medium such as InSb, where the electrons have a large Hall angle. The theoretical predictions for the threshold field appear to be in reasonable agreement with a number of experiments, those of Eidson and Kino, those of Musha and those of Suzuki, provided it is assumed that there is hole injection. The experiments carried out at 200 0K were done using p-type InSb, so the number of holes present was known. The agreement between theory and experiment is fair, but not perfect. The predicted threshold magnetic and electric fields are of the right order of magnitude and the shape of E versus B curve for threshold is correct. This mechanism does not require a phonon interaction and is entirely due to the interaction between electrons and holes in a collision-dominated medium. Furthermore, no generation of extra carriers, nonuniform density or finite temperature is required to explain the results."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"After a brief introduction to the Gunn effect and an explanation of the proposed equivalent circuit of the Gunn diode, a low-frequency (5 Hz) lumped-circuit analog is described. The analog is able to simulate the initiation and circuit quenching of the domain, the transit time of a dipole domain, and the dynamic negative-resistance characteristic associated with the domain. Thus the analog can qualitatively account for many properties of the dipole domain modes. A short section also shows how, within certain limitations, the LSA mode can be investigated by means of the analog. The analog enables the behavior of the Gunn diode to be studied under various forms of loading, and the results to be related to a wide range of actual diodes in microwave circuits by a simple scaling process. The sciencies of various modes can be compared. Photographs are presented of an oscilloscope display showing the relevant current and voltage waveforms (including the domain voltage) for a pure resistive load, a parallel resonant load, and a series inductive load. The provision for a direct display of domain voltage means that a particularly clear visual distinction is possible between transit-time and circuit-quenched modes of oscillation. Tuning by variation of the external load is demonstrated; the importance of the semiconductor's current peak-to-valley ratio and of the choice of transit time in determining the efficiency in a given mode is illustrated. A possible explanation for the reported observation of subharmonics is provided by the analog, on the basis of alternate modes, i.e., a cycle of circuit-quenched operation followed by a cycle of transit-time operation. The limitations of the analog are discussed together with ways in which some of them could be overcome."
"The conditions for current oscillation in a semi-insulating piezoelectric crystal with nonuniform carrier concentration are obtained using a simplified electron-phonon interaction law and the Weinreich momentum relationship. Start-oscillation conditions are then obtained as a function of the applied field, the carrier concentration ratio in the two parts of the crystal and the ratio of their lengths. The calculations are compared with experimental results and it is concluded that much of the observed behavior can be predicted qualitatively by this simple analysis."
"The characteristics of domains due to electron-phonon coupling in semiconducting CdS are measured using a high resolution probe. The behavior of domains in CdS for applications such as domain originated function generators is discussed and the results are compared with previous work on electron transfer domains in GaAs."
"A direct approach to the synthesis of crossed-field electron guns is presented. An iterative approximation to the desired beam form is achieved by application of the paraxial ray equation alternatively solving for potential and curvature along the beam while maintaining certain end-point conditions and the desired convergence pattern. When sufficient accuracy is obtained, polynomial approximations are used to express shapes of the trajectories and the electric fields along the beam edges in analytic form. The electrodes to produce the necessary electric fields along the beam edges are calculated by Kirstein's method. A conformal transformation is used to transform the beam edge into the real axis of a complex plane and analytic continuation of a suitable complex potential function is employed to find equipotential lines. These are transformed back into the plane of real coordinates and are surfaces along which electrodes can be placed. A novel short gun which produces a Brillouin beam has been designed using the iterative approach. The availability of beam curvature as a variable has made it possible to find an electrode system which controls the transition from the cathode-region flow characteristics used in Kino's short gun to a drift Brillouin beam. Detailed experimental evaluation of the gun reveals that the beam characteristics are in good agreement with those predicted theoretically."
"Here, for the first time, the computer designs of axially symmetric magnetron injection guns are given in detail, and the practical problems of computing the electrodes are discussed. These designs have been experimentally used, showing that the design procedure is sufficiently accurate for predicting the characteristics. The important design parameters such as perveance, area convergence and magnetic field required are given for the interesting range of the normalized \"computer\" parameters. A method is suggested for computation of the resulting hollow beam from a truncated cone cathode, and the design of a transition region is discussed."
"The equations relating the beam radius and axial electron velocity to easily measurable external beam parameters are developed for solid, relativistic beams. The beam parameters are tunnel voltage, beam current, axial magnetic field, cathode magnetic field, tunnel radius, and cathode radius. The equations are sufficiently complex to warrant the use of a digital computer if many cases are to be evaluated. Error indicators are formulated to prevent use of the relations beyond their range of validity. The equilibrium solutions for relativistic electron beams from unshielded cathodes show that the required magnetic focusing field is lower than that computed from nonrelativistic formulas. The angular magnetic field produced by the beam itself aids in focusing the electrons. The potential depression due to space charge is analyzed. Correction curves are given which allow the use of nonrelativistic equations in predicting equilibrium behavior. The maximum possible microperveance of relativistic beams is shown to be lower than the classical value of 25.4."
"The design of an electrostatic deflection field is described, whose defocusing effects may be corrected by means of the dynamic focusing method involving rotational symmetrical lens elements only. The method of analysis used is simple and approximate, and numerical results are illustrative rather than accurate."
"A 2-mile-long linear accelerator has been built at Stanford University that uses 245 klystrons to produce an electron beam with an energy up to 20 GeV. Although most of the tubes used are being procured from industry, a major portion of the development work has been and is still being done at Stanford. We will review the important results of this work. In general, the klystrons are designed to produce a minimum of 21 MW peak power with extremely stringent phase and amplitude stability performance requirements. They are focused by permanent magnets and operate up to 250 kV beam voltage with a microperveance of 2. During the past few years, gradual improvements in performance have been achieved by optimizing the bunching parameter and the output cavity coupling, and we have measured efficiencies approaching 45 percent in a permanent magnet. Permanent magnet structure limitations, field shaping, and changes in the klystron design to reduce the magnetic field requirements will be discussed. The output window life has been improved by coating techniques developed to decrease single surface multipactor and reduce window operating temperature. Questions of coating stability will also be discussed. Finally, the paper will touch on the initial results of statistical analysis of tube life as a function of operating experience."
"The application of planar and beam-lead technologies to GaAs has permitted the fabrication of integrated arrays of electroluminescent diodes. The arrays, to date, have consisted of 4 × 4 matrices, and larger arrays are now considered to be feasible. The diodes are Zn-diffused on 0.010-in centers, with Zn masking being provided by a composite structure of thermally deposited SiO2and phosphosilicate glass layers. Air isolation is used between the individual diodes with the interconnections being made by means of the beam leads. External efficiencies for light exiting from the back of the arrays have been as high as 0.003 with the variation within the arrays being less than ± 10 percent. The arrays have been used to optically trigger matching arrays of Si photosensitive p-n-p-n's. They also show promise in memory applications, where they may compete favorably with laser activated memory systems."
"This list of references contains over 200 entries, and no claims are made as to its completeness. The references for the era 1939 through 1963 refer to field-effect transistors, in general, and were obtained mostly from J. T. Wallmark's article, \"The Field-Effect Transistor--An Old Device with New Promise,\" IEEE Spectrum, vol. 1, pp. 182-191, March 1964. The subsequent references (1964 to mid-1967) relate predominantly to insulated-gate field-effect transistors, designated in the literature by IG-FETs. Often, more specific terms are used: for a structure consisting of a metal gate, insulating layer, and semiconductor substrate, the term MIS-FET appeared in the literature. If the insulating layer is an oxide, the terms MOS-FET or MOST are widely used. If the IG-FETs are fabricated by the so-called \"thin-film\" process, then they are called thin-film transistors, and are designated in the literature by TFTs; however, not all TFTs are FETs"
"Electronic tuning in CW X-band Gunn effect oscillators is reported. Several mechanisms which may account for the effects observed are discussed and discounted on the basis of simple models. An explanation in terms of growing domains is proposed."
"This correspondence summarizes the equations for power output and efficiency of voltage controlled negative resistance oscillators with cubic current-voltage characteristics, and considers the application of these equations to bulk GaAs oscillators."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"A bibliography of more than 550 papers in the field of metal-insulator-semiconductor theory and technology provides a catalog of the published work so that investigators can more easily relate their work to that reported by others. In most of the papers, the insulator layer discussed is SiO2or silicon nitride, and the semiconductor is silicon. The information has been arranged according to the following major classifications: MOS transistor behavior physics preparation of oxide layers techniques for evaluating insulator layers related information from the field of glass technology device fabrication technology radiation effects alternative materials."
"The results of an investigation into the relative roles of sodium and proton transport in silicon-dioxide films are presented. Tritium oxide (3H2O), tritiated ethanol, neutron activation, and sodium 22 tracer analyses are used to identify the mobile ions directly, and the results of these analyses are then directly correlated with the observed electrical behavior."
"The instability of vacuum deposited SiO2in field-effect transistors is described. Results for an Al-SiO2-CdSe system are accounted for by a model in which mobile ions are located predominantly in traps at the SiO2interfaces. The asymmetrical drift rate observed was accounted for by a difference in activation energy for release of ions from the two interfaces. The absorption of water vapor caused an increase in both the magnitude of the drift and the transconductance of the transistor during the drift."
"An analysis of a simple model for radiation-induced space-charge buildup in the SiO2layers of MOS structures has been carried out. The model assumes that hole-electron pairs are created in the SiO2by the radiation and that some of the electrons thus created drift out of the SiO2layer under the action of an applied potential across the oxide, VG, while the corresponding holes become trapped. The diffusion of electrons is assumed to be negligible. The analysis predicts 1) a dependence of charge buildup on radiation doseD, approximately of the form (1 - e^{-\\beta D}); 2) a linear dependence of the charge buildup on VG, for both polarities of VG; and 3) the dependence of the charge buildup on the total dose absorbed and not on the rate at which the dose was received. Experimental observations on the SiO2layers found in commercial MOS-FET's show good general agreement with the predictions of the analysis. To obtain quantitative agreement, however, it was necessary to assume that the mobility-lifetime product for electrons in the oxide is much lower at the SiO2-Si interface than at the SiO2- metal interface. Other discrepancies were observed but they can be explained as the result of oversimplifications employed in the analysis. In particular, it was necessary to postulate that under some circumstances diffusion of electrons out of the oxide was important and that, in addition to holes, a small number of electrons may be trapped in the oxide in some cases. The space charge was found to accumulate within ≤ 200 Å of the cathode-oxide interface."
"Surface-state density in n-channel MOS transistors operating in the inversion mode has been determined from the channel conductance and related to 1/fnoise in these devices. It has been found that the noise is proportional to the surface-state density at the Fermi level. The surface orientation and temperature affect the noise output only indirectly, through their influence on the surface-state density and the position of the Fermi level at the surface."
"A simple analysis is presented of the effect of illumination on MIS capacitance in the strong inversion region. The two mechanisms responsible for the increase of capacitance under illumination are described: the decrease of the time constant generation of the inversion layer, and the decrease of the space-charge region under illumination. The theoretical results are compared with the experimental data on silicon and tellurium MIS capacitances."
"Minority carrier lifetime greater than 10-10seconds can be determined for silicon at room temperature by observing the transient response of the MOS capacitance after the application of a large depleting voltage. The waveform is exponential for heavily doped samples and nonexponential for lightly doped samples. The transition occurs when the oxide capacitance approximately equals the space-charge capacitance. Results are presented for a lightly doped bulk silicon wafer exhibiting an effective minority carrier lifetime of 7.6 microseconds and a thin silicon-on-sapphire film with a lifetime of 4.5 nanoseconds. The ratio of transient time constant to lifetime is typically 105-108at room temperature. Lower lifetime may be determined by cooling the sample. A graphical method is presented to rapidly extract lifetime from the transient response of lightly doped samples when the waveform is nonexponential."
"A simple method is described for the determination of minority carrier lifetime using the small signal response time of an inversion layer in an MOS capacitor. Only a single charge transport electrometer measurement and the oxide thickness are required to compute this lifetime. It is also shown that since the measured response times are generally several orders of magnitude greater than the actual lifetime, this method allows the ready measurement of lifetimes down to the 10-10seconds range."
"Metal-oxide-silicon capacitance voltage curves in the inversion range at liquid nitrogen temperature are interpreted. Buildup of the inversion charge is very slow, but once it is established it cannot be readily injected. A forward bias of about 0.25 volt must be reached across the space-charge region before noticeable injection occurs. The true inversion capacitance voltage curve can be measured by allowing a long time for equilibration at each bias point."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"A simplified analytical method of calculating high-frequency, small signal negative resistance of p-n junctions in breakdown is presented. The negative resistance can lead to microwave oscillations in Impact Avalanche Transit Time (IMPATT) diodes. The method consists in subdividing the entire space charge region into several uniform layers, each of which has constant avalanche multiplication (including zero), and connecting the analytical solutions of the successive layers (multiple uniform layer approximation). The simplest case of the approximation, in which there is only one constant-avalanche region and one or two avalanche-free drift regions, is used to investigate how the small signal characteristics change with width and position of the avalanche region. From the behavior of the small signal negativeQ, it is expected that for low bias currents the oscillator performance improves when the avalanche region becomes relatively shorter, when its position moves from the center to the edge of the space charge region, and when the total space charge layer becomes wider. In materials with larger ionization rates, a negative resistance of a given quality (Q) is obtained at lower breakdown voltage and bias current."
"It is shown that the observed values of the minimum noise figureF_{\\min}of UHF transistors in common base connection can be explained in terms of the device parameter(1-\\alpha_{dc}) r_{b'b}/R_{e0}and fαfor frequencies up to 1000 MHz. An interesting collector saturation effect is observed that gives a strong increase in UHF noise figure at high currents. Many features of the dependance ofF_{\\min}on operating conditions can be explained by this effect. The current dependence ofF_{\\min}for large values of |VCB| and high currents suggests a distribution in diffusion times through the base region. At intermediate frequencies, the noise figure increases with increasing collector bias |VCB| due to an increase inr_{b'b}, which in turn is caused by the dependence of the base width on |VCB|."
"A thin-film transistor (TFT) is described whose transfer characteristic can be reversibly adapted by a short duration voltage pulse applied to a high impedance gate electrode. The device is a four-terminal two-gate structure. A source, drain, and insulator gate contact form the basic TFT, while the amount and polarity of the polarization charge on the surface of the ferroelectric material of a second gate contact determines the pinchoff voltage of the TFT transfer characteristic. Measurements on experimental units demonstrate that the pinchoff voltage is adjustable over a sizable range, and that TFT transconductance changes in excess of 1000 to 1 can be obtained. The time required to change between different states of the TFT characteristic is limited by the switching time of the ferroelectric material which, in general, can be of the order of microseconds. Electrical instabilities in the transfer characteristics of the devices, however, may limit their practical circuit application. The instabilities are observed as a slow time variation of pinchoff voltage after a state has been established. Experimental units use triglycine sulfate for the ferroelectric material and tellurium-silicon monoxide thin film transistors."
"The characteristics of a metal-semiconductor Schottky barrier diode, in which the semiconductor part consists of a heavily doped substrate (\\sim 10^{-3}Ω.cm) with a thin (∼ 1 µ) epitaxial layer which is much less heavily doped (-∼ 1 Ω.cm) on top of it, were studied. The electric field distribution calculations showed that, for all practical cases, the penetration of the depletion layer into the substrate could be neglected. Expressions for the capacitance-voltage characteristics, the image force barrier lowering effects, and the avalanche breakdown voltages were derived. The expressions can be verified experimentally on Mo-Si Schottky diodes."
"The resolution of a secondary emission tube is characterized by an equivalent, or effective, current distribution in the beam. This current distribution is defined as that which would cause the actual resolution degradation when landing on the target surface in an ideal way, i.e., without redistribution nor charge-to-potential mapping on the target. A \"frequency response\" technique is then introduced to measure the equivalent current distribution, and the theoretical responses for two distributions assumed a priori as possible, i.e., the Gaussian and the cosinusoidal, are derived. These findings are compared with experimental results which show that (1) it is legitimate to characterize the resolution of a storage tube by means of its effective distribution, and (2) both the Gaussian and the cosine distribution are good models for the real situation, the former giving a better fit for somewhat defocused beams. The formulas and experimental techniques describe the tube behavior for all values of scanning speed during both the writing and reading cycles, and for all input frequencies. The results can also be used to determine spatial resolution when discontinuous scanning is used."
"A simplified meshless storage tube has been developed which uses a single-layer dielectric storage target deposited over a transparent conductive coating on a glass faceplate. The dielectric layer serves the two principal purposes of bistable charge storage and production of the visible image. The mechanism of writing, storing and erasing depends on the well-known bistability of a good secondary emitting surface under flood current bombardment. The occurrence of an upper and lower stable potential is used here, as in previous bistable devices, to form light and dark image areas having a sharply defined boundary between them. This boundary is, in bistable tubes in general, an inherently unstable region because it has a high gradient across it, which tends to move the boundary across the face of the target. The principal new structural feature of the storage target is the formation of a semicontinuous porous dielectric layer which will not sustain migration of the boundary of the stored charge image transversely across the target surface, because of the electrical and mechanical discontinuity of the target microstructure. Another target is described in which image boundary migration is inhibited by the formation of the target dielectric in a pattern of islands or dots. The semicontinuous layer and the dot target each prevent image spreading and result in a substantial stable range of operating voltages of the collector electrode. The flood current collimating system is described, as is the erase pulse, the split screen, electrical readout, the integration mode, and measurements of the potential on the vacuum side of the storage dielectric. The dependence of brightness, contrast, resolution, writing speed, and stable range on target thickness is also described."
"This paper describes an L-band coaxial magnetron using novel construction techniques. The tube is designed as a \"plug-in\" into a separate TE011mode cavity which controls frequency and allows external tuning. The magnetic circuit is complete within the tube package. The tube was designed to operate at 25 kV, which is quite low for this power level. It is believed that this design technique makes coaxial magnetron design at the lower frequencies practical. The total weight of cavity plus tube is less than 60 pounds. Power output of over 1 MW is achieved over 60 percent of the desired band of 1250 to 1350 MHz. Reduced power output is achieved over the remaining portion of the band."
"Although the conventional Class B approach to RF amplifier design yields high output power and reasonable collector efficiency (78.5 percent at maximum output power), neither the power nor the efficiency are optimum, and both are dependent on RF drive level. This paper presents an analysis of appropriately selected collector voltage and current waveforms which determine the load impedance at the fundamental and harmonically related frequencies; these conditions define the ClassB \"optimum efficiency\" case with 100 percent collector efficiency and 1.27 times the conventional Class B value of output power. If the RF drive level is increased, and the collector voltage and current waveforms are appropriately selected so that the amplifier is overdriven, a different load impedance is determined; these conditions define the \"optimum power\" case with 1.46 times the conventional Class B value of output power and 88 percent collector efficiency. The \"optimum power\" case has the added advantage that the output power and collector efficiency are essentially constant over a predetermined range of drive level. Finally, the theory is verified by the construction and testing of a UHF power amplifier having a power output of 46 watts and an over-all dc to RF conversion efficiency of 65 percent with a 1 dB for 10.5- dB insensitivity of output power to RF drive."
"The abstract below should replace the one printed with the paper, \"The Physical Mechanism of the Chargistor in Terms of Minority Carrier Exclusion and Injection,\" by T.F. Shao and L.P. Hunter, which appeared on pp. 306-313 of the June, 1967, issue of this Transactions. \"Abstract - The chargistor, invented by Yu,[1] is here found to consist of a somewhat different structure. Its mechanism of operation can be given in terms of both minority carrier exclusion and high-level injection rather than in terms of space-limited currents as suggested by Yu. Three types of electrical behavior are distinguished. Characteristic curves, potential plots, and transconductance data are given.\""
"Noise figures of 2.8 dB have been achieved in an X-band TWT by increasing the magnetic field, cooling to liquid nitrogen temperature, and inverting the second anode potential."
"The experimental tube for investigating the emission properties of cathodes working at high temperatures was constructed. Cermet cathodes, in the shape of tablets, were heated by parallel electron beam bombardment. The thermoemission constants of ThO2-Mo cermet cathodes were measured by Richardson's straight line method."
"Presents the cover/table of contents for the proceedings."
"Presents the back cover of this proceedings volume."
"The piezoresistive effect has been observed in the metal-oxide-silicon field effect transistor (MOSFET). Hall measurements show that the piezoresistive effect in the inversion layer of the device is caused by modulation of carrier mobility. Stress induced variations in surface hole mobility as high as ± 10% in p channel enhancement mode devices have been observed. As the device parameters are a function of carrier mobility, any change in mobility produces a corresponding change in conductance and transconductance of the device. Hole mobility in the device is found to vary linearly with applied stress. The MOSFET therefore functions as a transducer, responding linearly to static, or dynamic stress. It is also to be noted that the device has three terminals and functions as an \"active\" transducer (it has gain). The output impedance of the device is variable and can be designed to have a value from several hundred ohms to a few megaohms by adjustment of device dimensions in the photomasking process and by adjustment of the gate voltage. The MOSFET transducer is therefore compatible with either high- or low-input impedance circuitry and can be fabricated in integrated circuit configuration."
"The use of tunneling in a structure consisting of a semiconductor, thin dielectric layer and metal offers promise as a practical photon detector free of many of the limitations ordinarily imposed by semiconductor materials. The basis for detection is the large increase in tunneling probability which can result when the kinetic energy of electrons is increased by photon absorption in the semiconductor. The barrier serves two functions: (1) it allows those photoelectrons at the barrier to tunnel through uninfluenced by trapping and recombination centers in the semi-conductor; and (2) because of its high impedance, the semiconductor resistance can be made as low as desired. Using thin-film tunnel barrier structures consisting of Te-Al2O3-Al, we have shown that a substantial increase is obtained in the speed of response as compared with that obtained with Te alone. In addition, although ordinary photoconductivity could not be detected in one sample in the Te layer alone, photocurrents were detected when the sandwich was operated in the tunneling mode. The spectral response is largely determined by that of the semiconductor, and the present device responds in the infrared. The similarity in the spectral response curves of the tunnel-barrier device and Te indicates that the generation of photoelectrons is a bulk property of the semiconductor and is not due to surface effects or excitation of electrons from traps in the insulator. Further, it suggests that the excited electrons are thermalized in the conduction band. The detectivity is similar to that of the Te alone."
"A new miniature tuning device operating on a flexural resonance of a thin metal substrate has been demonstrated. The device, known as a Tunistor, uses deposited piezoelectric films as input and output transducers, and can be batch fabricated by standard integrated circuit techniques. Tunistors have been built betwen 200 and 2500 Hz with Q's between 200 and 1500 and voltage insertion losses as low as 20 dB. The possibility exists of designing Tunistors with near-zero temperature coefficients of frequency and with relatively great immunity to external vibration. The Tunistor permits a new degree of miniaturization of stable audio frequency oscillators and high-Q filters by means of hybrid microcircuits. The paper will compare the Tunistor with previous miniature resonators and discuss the various parameters which determine the important characteristics."
"Numerical techniques have been used to obtain the field distribution in MOS transistors under saturated bias conditions. The numerical solution of Poisson's equation is obtained with fewer simplifying assumptions than are necessary to obtain an analytic solution. Using the numerical solution one can calculate the change in channel length as bias values are varied. From this, the changes in drain current, drain conductance, and transconductance in saturation can be predicted. The solutions also permit a rough calculation of breakdown voltages."
"This paper describes a family of crossed-field power-output noise generator tubes, which may be characterized as injected-beam forward-wave devices. They consist of a noisy gun, a drift space, and a crossed-field amplifier which amplifies the noise further and couples it to the external circuit. The frequency range, power, and efficiency are related closely to the crossed-field amplifier characteristics, and thus may be made to be broad-band, or to be narrow-band and tunable, depending on the slow-wave structure. The slow-wave structures used have been meander lines or lumped-constant structures, all supported on beryllia ceramics."
"Design considerations are described, which have led to the development of a range of low power pulsed magnetrons at S, X, and J bands with peak powers in the range 0.15 to 35 kW, which display some or all of a number of performance characteristics. These include reliability in operation under shock and vibration, rapid switch on even after long storages, low missing pulse rate, rapid rise and fall of rf power, low jitter rate, operation at low ambient pressure and over wide temperature range, low temperature coefficient of frequency. Current work on further understanding the parameters limited performance is described."
"A C-band, backward wave, crossed field amplifier for use in a new multi-stage pulsed radar transmitter has recently been developed. This tube, the QKS1343, features high average power capability together with small size, light weight, and high efficiency. It is rated at 1.5 megawatts peak and 15 kilowatts average power output at 100 microseconds pulse duration. Nominal operating efficiency of 60% is achieved over the frequency band 5.4 to 5.9 GHz. Models have been built and delivered for field use and evaluation."
"Development of a 60 dB gain, three-tube chain of forward-wave amplifiers is described. The chain is designed to fulfill state-of-the-art requirements for high efficiency, light weight, and minimum modulator power for use in advanced radar systems. Two 15-dE crossed-field amplifiers are driven by a traveling-wave tube with all stages dc-operated for 10 percent instantaneous bandwidth centered at 3.3 GHz. The TWT is gridded and the CFA's have beam cut-off electrodes."
"Circuit coupling considerations make conventional pi mode VTM operation above C band an increasingly difficult task. This paper reviews a program, sponsored under U. S. Army Electronics Command Contract No. DA- 36-039-AMC-02199E, in which many of the restraints on higher frequency VTM operation have been relaxed through the use of the N/2±1 modes of an interdigital structure. Among the principal advantages of this higher order mode operation are: (a) circuit sizes in band comparable to conventional S band devices; (b) the opportunity for heavy coupling, and (c) a reduction in cathode radiation. The major complicating factor is that mode separation is not equivalent to the pi mode ease and that the two null field patterns of the N/2±1 modes are spatially degenerate. These problems, though, have been overcome by careful choice of vane number and by the use of mode positioners."
"A C-band, dc operated, forward wave crossed-field amplifier has been developed for phased array applications. This tube, designated the SFD-237, is a circular format, emitting sole, reentrant electron stream crossed-field amplifier utilizing a helix derived slow wave circuit. Designed specifically for phased array applications, the magnetically shielded package has a maximum transverse dimension of 10 inches and is 32 inches long. Design and construction details of the amplifier will be discussed."
"A new generation of frequency agile airborne radars has created a need for magnetrons with fast random tuning and accurately monitored output frequencies. This paper will discuss various means of tuning microwave cavities specifically applied to coaxial magnetrons. A number of different tuning arrangements presently being sold will be briefly discussed with emphasis placed on the new whisper tuner. Advantages and disadvantages of the various designs will be pointed out in light of present system requirements."
"A twenty-five per cent decrease in the threshold energy necessary to produce lasing action in neodymium can be expected when a change is made from xenon to krypton-filled flash lamps. In particular, a drop in threshold energy from 22.8 joules to 17.0 joules was observed by changing to krypton and optimizing the lamp pressure, all other parameters remaining constant. Spectral distribution curves are shown for xenon, krypton, argon, and neon which indicate the behavior of the various gases with changes in lamp pressure and current density. A comparison is made between these distributions and the absorption spectrum af neodymium, the analysis of which provides an explanation for the various pumping efficiencies observed."
"This paper reports on recent work on output coupling, pulsed power output, frequency and mode control of a water vapor laser oscillator. Also the characteristics of a waver vapor laser amplifier will be described. Using a semi-confocal laser cavity consisting of a spherical metal mirror and a flat silicon mirror with the second side a spherical surface, the power from a water vapor laser can be focused and increased above the hundred watt level. At this pulsed power level, the rapid attenuation of the laser signal in moist air results in a loud acoustical noise. This acoustic effect persists even if the laser signal is passed through a monochromator. Wavelength measurements using only the ear as a detector can be accurately made."
"Extensive comparisons of Czochralski and Verneull ruby lasers have been made; such tests have become important due to the recent lack of availability of Verneuil ruby. The principal point of this paper is that the energy output of a long pulse Czochralski ruby laser gradually drops until after several hundred firings it has decreased to about 20% of its initial value. We have observed this in all Czochralski rods tested but have seen only slight evidence of this in Verneuil ruby. Two batches of Czochralski ruby were tested, one grown in 1964 and the other early in 1966. No simple explanation (such as a change in threshold or the development of damage in the rod) has been found yet which can explain the decreases seen for the two batches; within each batch, however, the symptoms are approximately uniform from rod-to-rod. All Czochralski crystals, however, do develop an orange coloration. Some exhibit a decrease in R1line absorption, and an increase in absorption at 4800A as seen by Hoskins and Soffer and Schultz; they attribute the 4800A absorption increase to defects created in the crystal. Our data interpretation, to date, indicates that these types of changes can only barely explain the decrease in energy observed. Tests will be continued to determine what effect pyrex has on filtering the pump light."
"Further progress in the development of an optical frequency shifter will be reported. In this device, light pulses emerging from a mode-locked He-Ne laser at a repetition rate of 100 MHz, are passed through an electro-optic phase modulator (LiNbO3) driven by a 100 MHz sine wave phase-locked to the light pulse train. By properly adjusting the rf phase, the optical frequency of the light pulses can be up-shifted or down-shifted by an amount which is proportional to the maximum rate of change of the refractive index. Shifts as large as ±5 GHz have been observed with a scanning Fabry-Perot interferometer. Interferograms showing clearly resolved modes were recorded. The Gaussian-shaped mode spectrum of the mode-locked laser beam, about 1.5 GHz wide at half height, was shifted up or down along the frequency scale without any visible change in shape, in agreement with theory. For these measurements the beam made a single pass through a 3-cm long crystal of LiNbO3. The shifts are cumulative with the number of passes. Work on larger shifts produced after several passes through the crystal will be reported."
"Laser mode coupling induced by internal time-varying perturbation of the optical cavity has been the object of much interest in recent years. It has been shown also that a laser can be phase locked by moving one of its mirrors at a frequency near the axial made interval. Length modulation has the advantage of not requiring the insertion of an additional element within the optical path."
"An experimental KDP light modulator with a 10% (half-m) bandwidth at 6 GHz is described. When arranged for amplitude modulation, a modulation depth of 40% was obtained with 10 watts of input power at band center. With a different optical arrangement, phase modulation is also possible. The modulator uses a ring-plane traveling wave circuit with cylindrical KDP crystals filling the space inside the rings. The crystals are used in the longitudinal mode, i.e., with the light beam along the optic axis, thus avoiding some of the thermal problems associated with transverse mode operation. The total length of crystals and circuit is 8 in. The crystal diameter is 0.156 in. The ring-plane circuit provides adequate cooling for the crystals, and operation at average rf levels of 10 watts is possible with only moderate distortion of the light beam."
"This paper discusses R&D work performed on gallium arsenide insulated gate field effect transistors directed toward the development of a 200 MHz amplifier. Results on planar type diffused channel devices using deposited silicon dioxides as gate insulator are briefly discussed and restrictions on device performance are analyzed. Investigation of other possible insulators revealed that silicon nitride films show a wastly improved capacitance-voltage response over silicon dioxide films on GaAs."
"Ion implanted MOSFETs formed with the gate as source-drain mask were described at the 1966 I EDM. These devices exhibited low Miller capacitance and freedom from critical mask alignment. Hewever, the devices were unstable because ions were implanted into unpassivated silicon. In addition, the characteristics were fixed because heavy ion concentrations were required for contact formation. MOSFETs formed by a combination of diffusion and ion implantation have recently been investigated. They retain the major attributes of the previously described device, but have greater stability and flexibility of characteristics. An offset-gate diffused device is first formed by standard techniques. The drain p-region is then extended to the edge of the gate by Boron implantation through the oxide-passivated area connecting the gate and diffused drain. The metallic gate acts as a mask to prevent ion doping of the modulated channel region. Device stability is achieved by implanting the ions through a passivated oxide layer. With diffused contact areas, the implanted doping concentration can be varied to allow formation of devices which simulate the Insulated Gate Tetrode. A light implantation produces high drain to source breakdown and low frequency response while heavy implantation produces low breakdown and high frequency response. The device fabrication procedure will be described. Noise, frequency response, and drain to sourer breakdown voltage will be evaluated at various implantation doping levels. Results will be compared with conventional devices."
"The characteristies of a GaAs FET which uses a Schottky Barrier for the gate are described. As a result of the high mobility of electrons in GaAs and the small contact geometries attainable, experimental n-channel devices have been fabricated which have a maximum frequency of oscillation of about 3 GHz. The device is an interdigitated structure, fabricated on a 2-3 micron n-type GaAs film. This film is grown from the vapor phase on a semi-insulating GaAs substrate. Ohmic source and drain contacts are obtained by alloying a mixture of Ag, In, and Ge. The gate is evaporated aluminium."
"N-channel enhancement mode, MOS transistors with non-uniform substrate doping built on silicon and on thin films of silicon on sapphire are described. The non-uniform substrate doping is the result of additional boron doping limited to a portion of the channel length. This supplementary substrate doping is achieved by diffusing boron through the same oxide window used to define the phosphorus source diffusion. By confining the supplementary channel doping to the vicinity of the source, n-channel enhancement mode transistors can be fabricated with no degradation of junction breakdown voltage at the drain or increase in drain capacitance. If an n-channel transistor is built on an n-type film, the channel length can be established by adjusting diffusion profiles to give a p-region of the desired thickness."
"A detailed study indicates that the radiation resistance of MOS transistors is controlled by the details of the technology. It has been found that an MOS structure can be created that remains operational for gamma radiation doses of greater than 107Rad. It will be shown how the radiation resistance varies with gate oxidation and the particular metals employed. The interrelation between radiation and thermal stability will also be discussed. It will be shown that there is some connection between the two as long as the same basic technology is used. It is possible, however, that combinations which result in thermal stability can still show a low radiation resistance."
"This paper describes some experimental studies of the noise properties of avalanche diodes at X-band frequencies. The results obtained indicate that the diode has a potential application as a broad band microwave noise source with a noise temperature from 15 dB to 25 dB greater than an argon gas discharge tube, depending on the bandwidth of the diode circuit. These results were obtained independently but corroborate the recently reported results of Val'd-Perlov, Krasilov, and Tager."
"Germanium epitaxial mesa diodes developed for a radio relay communications application are described. These diodes are capable of providing 1/2-watt CW at 25°C. in the common carrier frequency band at 6 GHz. Stringent noise requirements in radio relay communication systems make it expedient to use germanium. However, the relatively poor thermal conductivity of germanium in conjunction with the high power densities involved have made it mandatory to design for high efficiency, high junction operating temperature, and low thermal impedance."
"Relatively large amounts of microwave power have recently been observed from impatt diodes fabricated with ion implantation. Boron was implanted into N-type epitaxial silicon to a depth of 0.3µ at 60 Kv to form the p-n junction. The diodes were in the form of a mesa, with appropriate metallurgy for ohmic contacts and heat sinking. The diodes were mounted directly in chip form in a reduced height-waveguide. A sliding short and three tuning screws were used to tune the cavity. The frequency of operation was mainly in X-band. The implanted diodes have shown considerable improvement in performance over diffused diodes fabricated with similar configuration. Measurement of junction temperature for the same input power has shown that implanted diodes run \"cooler\" than comparable diffused diodes. AM noise measurements made on diffused and ion implanted diodes show an improvement in the signal to noise ratio for the ion implanted diodes. It is worth mention that the microplasma density is considerably smaller for implanted diodes. Utilization of ion implantation facilitates the fabrication of the diodes simply because the depth of penetration of the implanted layer follows the surface contour quite faithfully and thus eliminates the thickness variations due to diffusion. Thus, the main source of irregularity is due to the epitaxial layer thickness with a resultant improvement in yield and operation."
"This paper describes a technique for achieving considerably lower noise figures for IMPATT oscillators than have been previously reported. With these devices used as local oscillators, receiver noise figures in X band within 10 dB (single ended mixer 30 mc IF) and 0.2 dB (balanced mixer, 30 mc IF) of those produced with a klystron local oscillator have been obtained. The technique also results in a low oscillator pushing figure and an accompanying improvement in the spectrum of the device when pulsed. No external cavity stabilization is involved, and the oscillator consists only of a diode and a fundamental mode cavity."
"The nonlinear equations which describe the current and field in a Read-type IMPATT have been solved in closed form by assuming that the transit time of the carriers through the drift region is small compared with the period of the microwave oscillation. Using this solution the large-signal impedance of the diode is obtained. Impedance-plane plots for large-signal operation are presented. For small r-f voltages the results reduce to those obtained by Gilden and Hines. Larger voltages result in a decrease in the negative resistance of the diode and this leads to stable oscillator operation. A region of unstable operation similar to that found by Read is also predicted. The large-signal analysis predicts, a marked change in the current tuning of IMPATT diodes as compared to the small-signal case. Experiments have been performed on an IMPATT diode in a reentrant coaxial cavity. The experimental results on frequency tuning, impedance and other operating characteristics of the oscillator are in good agreement with the theoritical predictions. The experimental and theoretical results will be presented and compared."
"Computer design of an avalanche-diode oscillator is discussed using small-signal analyses. We consider a diode in a parallel RLC circuit, and wish to determine the bias current density and circuit parameters so that there is efficient output at a given frequency f, variable in the range f\\pm \\Deltaf, with low noise. This study was prompted by the difficulty of achieving, experimentally, a frequency modulation ratio Δf/f of 0.001."
"In a computer study of breakdown in silicon diodes, relaxation oscillations were found to occur. The computer program treats field-dependent ionization coefficients, recombination, field-dependent mobilities, diffusion, and, of course, field distortion due to space charges. The applied voltage Vais impressed across a series resistor R and the sample; the latter is shunted by the capacitance C. Both linear and complementary-error-function doping profiles have been assumed. The breakdown voltage of a 2.5 micron p-n junction was found to vary from about 90 to 100 volts depending largely upon the rate of the applied voltage. The threshold for oscillations is about 90v. Maximum amplitude oscillations occur forV_{a} \\approx 110V and continue with reduced amplitude well above twice the threshold. The frequency of oscillations varies asV_{a}^{1/2}, R^{-1}and inversely as the total sample and shunt capacitance. The range of frequencies calculated thus far is from 2.7 to 32 GHz. The current and voltage wave forms vary from nearly sinusoidal to nearly saw tooth. Equilibrium voltage excursions of> 0.5V_{a}have been obtained. Preliminary evaluation gives a maximum efficiency of about 10% forV_{a} = 100, R = 10Ω andC = 1 × 10^{-11}F."
"The objectives of this investigation were to develop a one megawatt CW waveguide window with 10% bandwidth at a frequency of 8 GHz and to design and construct a CW traveling-wave resonator capable of testing windows at CW power levels exceeding one megawatt. The first portion of this paper discusses the development of a high gain one megawatt CW traveling-wave resonator. Problems associated with the design, operation, and maintenance of this device at very high average powers are discussed. Thermal instabilities caused by dielectric heating of window samples are shown to be a serious problem in both high power window testing programs and practical application of window designs to high power microwave tubes."
"The objectives of the development program to be described are an output power of 100-kw CW at 8 GHz, an efficiency in excess of 30%, and an instantaneous 3-dB bandwidth in excess of 3%. The design chosen was an extended-interaction klystron (EIK) with a three-gap 2π-mode output resonator. A two-gap uncoupled cavity pair was chosen as the penultimate resonator. The cavity pair was utilized to maintain greatest attainable efficiency over the entire bandwidth of the tube. Conventional tunable single-gap resonators were used in the low level buncher portion of the tube."
"This paper describes the VA-949AM klystron amplifier which has produced 250 kw of CW power at frequencies near 7.8 GHz. This tube was designed in particular to be used by the Lincoln Laboratory of M.I.T. at the Haystack antenna site. Because the tube is mounted on the antenna, small size and light weight are important. The mechanical and electrical characteristics are described which show a total weight of the tube and its electromagnet of only 500 lb. For 250 kw of output power the beam requirements are 54 KVdc and 11 amperes."
"With the advent of sophisticated pulse compression radars, the phase linearity of the various components has become of utmost importance. A phase measurement program was initiated to determine the phase linearity of broad band high power microwave tube. Swept frequency phase measurements were made on three types of pulsed C-band tubes. These tube types are: (1) 5-kw helix TWT; (2) 3-megawatt cloverleaf TWT; and (3) 3-megawatt cloverleaf Twystron® (klystron input section, cloverleaf output section). The 5-kw tube is used as a driver tube for the megawatt tubes. The deviation from linearity and the output power was measured for several beam voltages and rf drive powers for each of these tube types. Swept frequency measurements were made over a frequency range of 5.4 to 5.9 kmc. In addition, measurements were also made to determine the phase shift as a function of drive power at individual frequencies."
"Many high-power traveling-wave amplifiers operate under confined-flow conditions (high magnetic field) so that there is little radial motion of the electrons. However, the trend in recent years has been toward utilizing near-Brillouin magnetic fields (uniform and ppm) for beam focusing in order to achieve a small, lightweight device. In such a device operating under large-signal conditions, the radial excursions of the electrons can become quite large and may result in premature saturation, a reduction in gain and appreciable circuit current interception, seriously degrading its performance. It is thus of considerable interest to determine the minimum magnetic fields necessary to constrain the beam under large-signal conditions."
"A tuneable klystron amplifier which produces about 500 kw of CW power over the frequency range of 2.320 to 2.455 GHz has been developed. The tube uses a solid beam of microperveance 1.0. It has five single-gap cavities and produces 56 dB of gain with a 1 dB bandwidth of 20 MHz at 55% conversion efficiency. A carefully designed confined flow electron beam allows use of a single-coil solenoid and a fixed magnetic field for all frequencies within the band at all power levels between 100 and 500 kw. A modulating anode is provided for beam switching control. The collector easily dissipates the full dc beam power of one megawatt."
"Silicon carbide diffused junction photodiodes have been fabricated for operation in either the photovoltaic or reverse bias mode. These diodes were fabricated in a manner similar to that described previously, but through the use of advanced techniques improved properties were obtained. Forward impedances as low as 8 × 104ohms and 4 × 104ohms were obtained at 30°C. and 500°C., respectively. Rise times of 10 to 100 microseconds were measured at 30°C. with a slight decrease at 500°C. Peak response wavelengths as short as 2700 A were obtained. When operated in the reverse bias mode, the reverse current of these diodes increases by 5 to 6 orders of magnitude under ultraviolet illumination."
"The need for a guard ring around the active area of an avalanche diode can be eliminated by the use of a p-n+ (n-p+) planar junction, as opposed to the more conventional p+ -n (n+ -p) planar junction. Breakdown does not occur at the junction corners since the positive curvature of the junction is on the high resistivity side. The p+-n (n-p+) structure significantly reduces both the capacitance and the resistance of small area photodiodes and thereby increases both the available output power and the RC cutoff frequency. A conventional planar avalanche diode with an active area of 10-4cm2has a total area of\\sim 2.5 \\times 10_{-4}cm2because of the guard ring, and a series resistance of\\sim 50 - 100ohms. Because of the excess capacitance and resistance multiplications of greater than 10 are necessary in order just to equal the available output power of a conventional nonavalanching p-i-n photodiode. The p-n+ (n-p+) diodes can be designed to have resistances (R_{s} \\sim 2ohms), capacitances (C < 1 pf), and RC cutoff frequencies (F_{co} \\gsim 100GHz) equivalent to those of the p-i-n, and to have uniform multiplication as well."
"Sensitive diffused indium antimonide mesa type photodiodes with very high reverse breakdown voltage have been developed for IR scanistor applications. Capacitance-voltage measurements at liquid nitrogen temperature indicate a C-3dependence on applied reverse bias voltage, proving the pn junctions to be graded. Most devices exhibit values of reverse breakdown voltage in the range of 20 and 30 volts. These values are higher than previously reported in the literature for indium antimonide diodes. The breakdown mechanism can be explained as an avalanche effect and observed high breakdown voltages are due to the graded junction structure. Current voltage characteristics of typical devices at liquid nitrogen temperatures will be discussed."
"A static crossed-field photomultiplier can be designed to have a useful frequency response extending from baseband up through the microwave range. This paper describes the design and experimental evaluation of a high-gain crossed-field photomultiplier with a frequency response extending to 6 GHz. Permanent magnet focusing and a compact mechanical design have resulted in a small, relatively lightweight package which can be used outside of the laboratory. The experimental evaluation includes frequency response measurements throughout the microwave range using cw modulation techniques, pulse response measurements using phase-locked laser techniques, dark current measurements, and dynamic range measurements. Since the electron trajectories as well as the gain of the device are affected by the voltage distribution within the tube, the problem of voltage divider regulation is also discussed."
"A photodetector consisting of a germanium avalanche photodiode, thermo-electric cooler, amplifier, and biasing circuit is described. The photodiode is of the graded guardring structure and has an active avalanche region 10 mils in diameter and a depletion width at breakdown at 5.0 µm. The photodiode is mounted on a single-stage thermoelectric cooler for the purpose of reducing the bulk leakage current. Also mounted on the cold surface is a temperature sensing reference diode used to control the biasing circuit and provide constant avalanche gain in the photodiode. The amplifier was designed to be driven with the photodiode current source and provide a voltage output. The amplifier has a 2.6 K ohm transimpedance over the range from 30 kHz to 30 MHz."
"The recent discovery that a GaAs-Cs emitter surface is one of the most efficient photoemitters throughout the visible and near infrared region has stimulated hopes that this system might form the cathode of improved phototubes. A number of problems stand in the way of realizing this hope, one of which is investigated here. It has been reported that the infrared response, and to a lesser degree the visible response of the GaAs-Cs system, decays in time. An investigation into the origin and the nature of this instability is reported here, with the conclusion that the decay in sensitivity is due to an excess accumulation of Cs on the GaAs surface. The experimental investigation also includes age studies, methods of resensitization of the cathode, and the effects of an argon atmosphere."
"A new type 7 scan converter tube is discussed which utilizes the silicon diode array target described in the preceding paper. The target in the camera tube integrates the hole diffusion current generated by an optical image. Since it is also possible to generate hole-electron pairs by energetic electron beam bombardment, video signals can be written onto the target by a second scanning beam incident from the side opposite the reading beam (the side the light is incident on in the camera tube). Current gain results from the fact that many hole-electron pairs may be created by a single energetic electron. The gain process is a form of electron bombardment induced conductivity (IEBIC) which appropriately may be called Secondary Hole Diffusion (SHD) in contrast to Secondary Electron Conduction (SEC). Memory may be built into the target by the use of appropriate traps for the holes. Thus a two-gun device of this sort may be used for scan conversion, scan compression and repeat, random access memories as well as provide a tool for the study of physical processes in silicon. Such devices have been constructed and tested and experimental results will be presented."
"A planar array of reverse biased silicon p-n diodes has been used as the image sensing element in a television camera tube. The optical image is focused onto the n-type substrate which is laterally homogeneous with a thickness typically in the rankle of 0.5 to 1.5 mils while the diode side is scanned by an electron beam, the electron optics being similar to that used in a conventional vidicon. Compared to the evaporated thin film photoconductive type of target used in the vidicon, the silicon diode array target has the following advantages: 1. It does not suffer from electron beam and optical \"burn-in.\" 2. There is no photoconductive lag. 3. A high temperature bake can be used during vacuum processing. 4. It has a broader spectral response and a higher sensitivity."
"It has been shown that phototransistors operated in a pulsed mode display a light integration characteristic that provides enhanced light sensitivity over a wide range of conditions. The purpose of this paper is to present the results of measurements of storage-mode sensing performed on silicon phototransistors of several geometries as functions of integration period, sampling pulse amplitude, ambient temperature, and light level. Some experimental results; will be compared to the theoretically predicted performance using a phototransistor model developed for the pulsed phototransistor, and conclusions drawn."
"Most modern image converters with electrostatic focus are based on the electron of concentric spheres, which was analyzed by Schagen et al, in 1952. Tubes of this type yield sharp images of good brightness with a very simple point-symmetric diode structure. One disadvantage of this type of optics is its need for an input surface of spherically-convex shape. This feature complicates the adaptation of image tubes to optical systems and may also require the use of separate lenses for field flattening."
"Electrostatic electron optics has been developed for use in pickup tubes such as the image orthicon (I O.) and the return-beam vidicon (RBV). Advantages of electrostatic optics in these categories include low power and weight, and the absence of heavy and cumbersome yoke and focus-coil assemblies with high-current circuitry. A disadvantage of the all-electrostatic systems is their current-density limitation. In a return-beam system, however, this drawback may be overcome by the use of a built-in electron multiplier. In this case, the beam current requirement becomes so small that good resolution can be realized despite low values of current density."
"A one-inch vidicon capable of withstanding sterilization treatments and severe environmental testing has been developed for space applications. The tube uses electrostatic focusing and magnetic deflection provided by photoetched deflection coils. The brazed ceramic-and-metal structure has an indium-sealed faceplate and is potted in a magnetic shield. The sterilization tests, consisting of ethylene-oxide exposure and a prolonged 135°C. dry-nitrogen bake, cause some increase in dark current and a small gain in sensitivity of the slow-scan photoconductor. The tube operates satisfactorily after undergoing high-amplitude vibration tests (e.g., 35 g at 2000 Hz and 25 g rms wide-band noise) and after 60 halfsine shock pulses having a 3000-g amplitude) 30 with 100-µ sec rise time, the other 30 with 225- µsec rise time)."
"In an effort to see how much improvement could be made in a silicon saturating-logic circuit with good noise immunity, using developmental technology, a six-input T2L switching circuit was designed, incorporating dielectric isolation and very small-area devices. A high concentration of gold mast be introduced into the base and collector areas to provide the low-lifetimes necessary for ultra-fast circuits. Since gold will not diffuse through the silicon dioxide dielectric isolation layer, it must be diffused through the openings in the top surface of the wafer into a relatively small volume of silicon. An overabundance of gold can compensate donor impurities in the collector region, resulting in very high resistivity. Thus, control of the amount of gold introduced into each island is highly critical, and was accomplished by separately limiting the amount of gold available to each different-sized island, and by careful control of the goldplating solution and gold diffusion temperature."
"The technique for forming air gap isolated active areas suitable for making integrated circuits is made possible by the utilization of anisotropic etching of single crystal silicon. This technique is based on the extreme difference in etching rates in various crystallographic directions which makes it possible to form precise, discrete silicon mesas for the active devices of the circuits."
"Anisotropic silicon etches which preferentially attack the {100} and {110} crystal planes have been used to form narrow well-controlled isolation slots in silicon beam-leaded integrated circuits. The etches of interest are characterized by etching rates, R, on the low order crystal planes in the order R{100} > R{110} > R{111}, and for which R{111} is effectively zero."
"One important route to higher functional densities for LSI is through consolidation of more components within a given region. This paper reports on studies of integrated \"latch\" devices made by incorporating transistor flip-flops within a single isolation island and using the bulk resistivity of the epitaxial layer for resistive elements."
"The electronic components of a monolithic integrated circuit are, at present, isolated by either reverse biassed p-n junctions or dielectric material, or held together by interconnecting beams. In almost all applications, the \"component-to-substrate capacitance\" of some of the components must be kept low in order to ensure proper function, to maintain stability, and to reduce crosstalks. This is difficult to do in the p-n junction isolation technique, where the component-to-substrate capacitance is high. The various forms of dielectric isolation technique and the beam-lead scheme provide satisfactory solutions to this problem, even though the fabrication processes are all very involved."
"A memory element has been developed that has the structure of a typical silicon planar p-channel enhancement insulated-gate field-effect transistor (IGFET). The information is stored by setting the threshold voltage of the IGFET to a high or low value. Interrogation is accomplished by applying a gate voltage intermediate to the threshold voltage extremes. Current will flow between source and drain if the recorded threshold voltage is less negative than the interrogating gate voltage; none will flow if the recorded threshold voltage is more negative. A high (negative) threshold voltage is written by applying a pulse of -50 v or higher for a duration of 1 msec or less between gate and substrate. A low threshold voltage is similarly obtained with positive 50 v pulse. The persistence of stored information has been demonstrated for periods of at least several months."
"A new technique for attaching external package leads to metallized substrates is presented. Gold-plated copper lead frames and gold-plated headed leads of various compositions are thermocompression bonded to metallized alumina substrates. The generated patterns on the substrates consist of an evaporated layer of gold over an evaporated layer of titanium. The leads are bonded simultaneously to form gold diffusion bonds between the leads and the metallized substrate. The lead frames are stamped from 0.005\" and 0.10\" thick copper. The headed leads range in size from 0.016\" diameter to 0.025\" square. The various problems encountered in the development of this technique and their related solutions will be discussed."
"The development of the sealed-junction, beam-lead silicon integrated circuit permits new freedom in the assembly of complex functional circuits. Because of the intrinsic capabilities of this silicon device technology, handling, registering, and bonding techniques which are capable of achieving high yields at manufacturable rates are being developed. For the device, the beams are utilized as the prime elements for handling and registration of the chip to the pattern of conductors on a substrate. Requirements and procedures for these operations, are briefly described."
"A technique has been developed for achieving a very high density interconnection of active silicon devices to permit the fabrication of large electronic subsystems in essentially monolithic form. The method used to fabricate a MOS 2000-bit register chip assembly containing 12,000 MOS transistors on a 300 × 600 mils silicon substrate will be described."
"While digital microcircuits are performing increasing numbers of independent logic functions on a single chip, the diversified requirements of the typical linear system have limited most linear circuits to one function per package. A first step toward large-scale integration of linear subsystems involves development of a basic module, which may be optimized through interconnection to perform the widely varying functions in an audio, servo or rf system. This approach is more efficient, and gives more optimized performance than interconnecting general-purpose single components on a chip. The second step requires that adjacent basic modules be interconnected, and packaged as a group."
"The electrical characteristics of packaging and interconnections in high speed digital computers can introduce limiting restrictions on computer operation. Therefore, it is necessary for the designer to seriously consider the electrical characteristics of the physical design. The major considerations for high speed computer designs are propagation delay, clock pulse skew, noise, crosstalk, and integrated circuit performance. All of these considerations can be significantly enhanced by the implementation of the Teledyne Micro Electronic Modular Assembly (MEMA) packaging technique. The MEMA is a hybrid electronic module. It consists of a flat pack containing up to 30 integrated circuit \"bare chips\" interconnected on an alumina substrate and hermatically sealed. This large functional complexity contained in a volume of less than 1/20 cubic inch permits a high speed computer to be implemented with a minimum of problems associated with the considerations described."
"Rapidly expanding emphasis on microelectronic circuitry has produced increasing demands in solid state bonding techniques. For example, an important manufacturing step in the use of beam-leaded integrated circuits is joining the leads to surrounding circuitry. Economically, it is desirable to bond all leads simultaneously, however, when doing this a number of potential difficulties related to uniform deformation of all leads must be dealt with. One solution to these problems is a solid state joining process called compliant bonding."
"Peak power of 300 watts and more at 8 GHz has been generated for 100-200 nanosecond pulses in a series of experimental LSA diodes. These devices were made of bulk, n-type Gallium Arsenide, doped to 3-5 × 1014/cm3. The GaAs samples, mounted in 1N23 crystal cartridges, are 400-800 microns thick between planar contact electrodes and have rectangular solid geometry. The variations of device performance with bias and microwave cavity adjustments, as well as with doping density and sample geometry are presented, including 10% mechanical tuning and operation over a wide range of bias from twice to eight times Gunn domain mode threshold bias."
"Gunn's experimental result indicating a voltage-controlled negative resistance current-domain voltage characteristic is theoretically verified in this paper, employing a considerable extension of the so-called equal areas analysis. The theoretical analysis indicates that if sufficient sample voltage is applied, or if the sample is short enough, a minimum domain velocity (MDV) condition is obtained (this appears to be the region Gunn terms the \"unsteady region\") a condition wherein the accumulation layer literally catches up with the depletion layer (the two comprising the domain), thus producing domain collapse prior to its exit from the anode. (This, however, is not the LSA mode.) A family of current-domain voltage curves is theoretically obtained, with carrier concentrate and sample length as the parameters."
"The many advantages (zero bias, low 1.o. power, low noise, etc.) of backward diodes for microwave and millimeter wave detectors and mixers are significantly offset by their capacity. This limitation can be considerably reduced by the selection of a semiconductor with carriers of small effective mass and band gap with consequent high tunneling probability, permitting the use of small-area (low capacity) junctions. Indium arsenide is a logical choice."
"The GaAs varactors described here are P+NN+ mesa devices with base widths (distance between P-+ and N+regions) made as narrow as possible to achieve high cutoff frequency. Routine dimensions are now 1 to 2 microns using as thin a P+ diffusion as the epitaxial layer thickness permits. Diffusion depth is typically 1.5 to 2.0 microns. Metallization processing has contacted P-+ regions thinner than one micron deep without shorting. Epitaxial layer doping level (ND) is controlled to achieve high (25-45v) or low (10-25v) voltage breakdown devices."
"Microwave communications systems require varistors for downconversion, limiting and detection. This paper describes the development of a device being manufactured for these uses in the common carrier bands at 4, 6, and 11 GHz. The barrier-forming metals are titanium and silver on n-type epitaxial gallium arsenide. Means of characterization and control of the required doping profile in the 0.5 µm-thick epitaxy will be discussed. Plated gold contacts overlaying deposited silicon dioxide are used with a miniature cartridge encapsulation."
"An rf discharge is produced by a helical coil with its axis parallel to the laser tube resonator axis. The energy is coupled into the discharge by the circulating currents induced in the relatively low resistivity plasma by the rf magnetic field. These currents are in a plane perpendicular to the rf magnetic field. The discharge is initiated by the electric field along the length of the coil."
"The principle of operation of an argon laser based upon a thermionic hollow cathode discharge (HCD) is described. The HCD argon laser is shown to be a simple, durable, long-lived device capable of high power output. An essential feature of this design is that it is a demountable, flowing gas device. In its simplest form, the HCD laser consists of an anode and cathode, both of which are tantalum tubes, located some 10 to 20 cm apart along the axis of a one kilogauss solenoid. Commercial grade argon flows in through the cathode tube and is pumped out through a high conductance sideport by a 15-cfm forepump. The discharge is maintained by copious electron emission from the inner surface of the cathode. The emission appears to come from a ring a few tube diameters inside the cathode tip. The emitting area operates at approximately 2500°K and the emission mechanism is probably a combination of thermionic and field emission."
"A new capillary structure for ion lasers has led to greatly improved operating reliability and lifetime. This paper traces the development of this structure from the original suggestion for a segmented metal capillary to its present form. The major goals of this development have been increased reliability and operating lifetime. Experimental results at various stages of development are presented to illustrate the effect of improvements in design. The result of this development, a high reliability, two-watt argon ion laser, is described and its operating characteristics compared to those of more conventional ion lasers."
"A study has been made of the tradeoffs among beam divergence, cavity stability, and power output of low-order transverse modes (i. e., TEM00, TEM*01, TEM10, etc.) in a high power argon ion laser. The radial intensity distribution and angular divergence of the actual active cavity modes and theoretical cavity modes are compared. The three lowest order transverse modes listed above diverge in free space at 1.1, 2.4, and 3.6 times the rate of a diffraction limited Gaussian beam having the same diameter at the 1/e2intensity points."
"An efficient coupled-cavity technique for achieving high power, single frequency laser operation has been described by Smith. An adaptation of this scheme is well suited to the argon ion laser, in which the large oscillating linewidth (∼10 gc) dictates an optical path length of about 1 cm in the mode selector part of the laser cavity. To simplify fabrication of the mode selector, the two high-reflectivity mirrors and the beam splitter have been combined into a quartz prism having dielectric coatings on its three faces."
"The problems facing the developer of laser cathodes are complex. Unlike vacuum emission, not only must the intrinsic properties of the cathode be considered but gas-surface reactions, sputtering, and the role played by cathode-plasma reactions must all be taken into consideration. The most difficult problem for dc gas lasers is that of obtaining adequately reliable cathodes. In general, when chemically nonreactive gases such as He, Ne, Xe, Ar, etc., are used we have found that some form of structure which constraints BaSrO as the emitter will more than adequately supply the current required. Thermionic hollow cathode structures which will be described have been found particularly advantageous, giving up to 100 amperes, even under adverse conditions. When reactive gases such as O2, CO2or H2O are used a thermionic cathode containing BaZrO3has been found to be a good emitter with long life. This cathode is unique in that it emits better in an oxidizing atmosphere than it does in a nonreactive ambient."
"A new concept for a recording device providing real-time multi-color images has been demonstrated using liquid crystal materials which exhibit color changes resulting from changes in the impressed electrostatic field. Signal intensities are presented as colors rather than as optical densities, with red corresponding to the lowest level and blue corresponding to the highest signal level."
"It has been found that the light transmission characteristics of certain hot-pressed ferroelectric ceramics depends on the magnitude and direction of the ferroelectric polarization. Although scattering and optical depolarizing effects are present, transmittances as high as 0.9 have been measured. Two distinct types of optical properties have been observed and characterized in thin polished plates of rhombohedral lead zirconate-lead titanate ceramics. Coarse-grained materials, i.e., with nominal gain diameters (G) of two microns or more, almost completely depolarize the light by scattering. Fine-grained materials (G less and two microns) depolarize transmitted light by 5 to 20%, but otherwise behave the same as birefringent crystals (chromatic retarders). In optically uniaxial crystals, i.e., barium titanate and lead zirconate-lead titanate solid solutions, retardation depends upon the electrical polar axis orientation or ferroelectric polarization. Similar dependence has been observed in the fine-grained ceramics. The effects of various ferroelectric polarization states on light transmission in both coarse-grained and fine-grained materials are described in this paper."
"Laser Curie-point writing on thin magnetic films in conjunction with a magneto-optic readout technique provides a number of advantages over presently available mass memory systems. This approach, however, imposes stringent requirements on the material properties of the film memory plane. We have found that thin films of MnBi possess many unusual physical properties and are particularly suitable for this application. Films prepared on mica substrates typically have a specific Faraday rotation of5 \\times 10^{5}degrees/cm, and an absorption coefficient of2 \\times 10^{5}cm-1for 6328Å wavelength, permitting a readout rate of 109 bits/sec at 1 mw laser power level using available detectors. Heating of a spot 3 microns in diameter in a 1000Å thick film with a 10-mw Gaussian laser beam has been calculated using the heat flow equation. The result shows that the entire spot can be raised to above the Curie temperature (345°C) from 20°C at the end of a 1µ sec laser pulse. For a 106 bits/cm2packing density, heating at adjacent spots is negligible. Experimentally, we have been able to write a manually scanned line of 3.7µ width with a 10-mw laser on a SiO coated Mn, Bi film in air. To reduce the required writing magnetic field, films of discrete squares of 4µ sides and 12µ separation have been prepared. Calculations show that the writing magnetic field in this case can be as low as 10 Oe. Analytical and experimental results as well assystem considerations will be presented."
"Work on a low temperature laser beam addressable memory will be presented. There are several advantages for a beam addressable memory below 77°K. First, the memory medium, an EuO film gives large magneto-optic effects which result in a fast read out rate. Second, at a low operating temperature, the specific heat of the material is small since the lattice and electronic specific heats are proportional to T3and T, respectively. Thus, thermo-writing requires much less energy at low temperature than at room temperature. Third, because of the low energy requirement for the read-write transducer, injection lasers with fast switching speeds can be used. Fourth, the films that were investigated can sustain small area magnetization reversals. Using injection lasers as transducers and EuO films as memory storage elements, reading and writing experiments were carried out. Bits of < 3µ in diameter were written with a 10 mw laser in 10 nanosecond by using thermal writing. The laser energy required to write such a bit is 10-3ergs; and since no substantial magnetic spread was observed in a thin film of EuO, the density of packing is essentially limited by optics. A packing density of 107bits/cm2seems achievable. High speed reading experiments were also carried out. Since the magneto-optic conversion efficiency is very high, a good S/N ratio for detection was achieved by a 1-mw laser pulse of a few nanoseconds duration."
"Light emitting p-n junctions are scanned by an acoustic domain traveling at sound velocity in CdS at room temperature. The light elements are heterojunctions formed by depositing p-Cu2S on n-CdS. The acoustic domain is generated in semiconducting CdS by applying a bias electric field which gives the electrons a drift velocity greater than the shear sound velocity. When the acoustic domain is in the vicinity of a p-n junction, part of the acoustic energy is transformed into light. As the domain travels between consecutive light elements it replenishes its lost acoustic energy from the bias electric field."
"A solid-state display panel has been developed capable of converting a transient optical image into a stored luminescent image. Such panels are two-layer devices, employing a special photoconductively controlled field-effect layer for the input and a conventional type of powder-binder electroluminescent layer for the output. Image storage times of the order of an hour may be obtained or the image can be electrically erased in a second or less when desired, leaving the panel ready for the acceptance of a new image. Erasing may also be accomplished gradually to produce a controlled persistence or selective areas of the image may be erased. In addition to its long storage time, the output image contains good halftones and has high contrast. Since the image brightness is as high as 20-foot lamberts, the panel may be viewed in moderate room illumination. Because of the relative transparency of the control layer the stored image may be viewed with approximately equal brightness from both sides of the panel. In present panels optical feedback is prevented by employing a green-emitting electroluminescent layer whose spectral emission is of longer wavelength than the radiation to which the control layer is responsive. Panels have been fabricated in sizes up to12\" \\times 12\"and are capable of displaying image details 0.020\" or smaller."
"The Electron Beam Scanlaser has been described and operated in terms of a scanning light source in which the easily deflected electron beam determines a spot from which laser light is emitted. However, the scanlaser concept can be generalized by considering it as a type of cathode ray tube, in which a degenerate laser samples the charge distribution on a particular target, and emits light from all points which have a certain charge (50 pico-coulombs in the present embodiment). A variety of consequences of this generalization will be considered. The source of the field across the crystal need not be a scanning electron beam, so that it should be possible to generate the charge pattern by means of a photocathode in conjunction with several multiplier stages, forming a \"scanlaser image converter.\" Furthermore, the field across the KDP crystal used in the mode selector can be provided in a much more practical way; for example, by means of a matrix of conducting wires embedded in a CRT faceplate, such as is used in the electrostatic printing tube. Many other CRT devices can be applied to the scanlaser mode selector, and some of these will be discussed. A new scanlaser mode selector demonstrated in the laboratory will be reported which, among other advantages, provides a variable charge decay time which can be orders of magnitude faster than anything previously possible, with no loss in resolution."
"A numerical iterative method of solution of the one-dimensional basic two-carrier transport equations describing the behavior of semiconductor junctions under both steady-state and transient conditions is presented. The method is of a very general character: none of the conventional assumptions and restrictions are introduced and freedom is available in the choice of the doping profile, recombination-generation law, mobility dependencies, injection level, and boundary conditions applied solely at the external contacts. For a specified arbitrary input signal of either current or voltage as a function of time, the solution yields terminal properties and all the quantities of interest in the interior of the device (such as carrier densities, electric field, electrostatic potential, particle and displacement currents) as functions of both position and time."
"A theoretical and experimental study of bipolar transistor performance at high current densities has been performed. The analytical treatment is based upon the existence of a high level injection condition in the collector. Two models which describe the high current behavior of the collector junction space-charge region are discussed. The first deals with the formation of a current-induced base region at high current densities; the width of this current-induced base depends on the current density. The second model assumes that two-dimensional effects are predominant; at sufficiently high current densities lateral injection of carriers takes place. Theoretical curves for the current density necessary to bring about the space-charge limitation have been computed."
"The surface recombination and generation process in semiconductors is studied theoretically and experimentally. The theory for a uniform distribution of surface recombination centers is developed in a unified form, applicable both to the nonequilibrium MOS method employed in the case of thermally oxidized silicon and to the photoconductive-decay method traditionally employed for etched germanium surfaces. Results of this theory are compared, with measurements on thermally oxidized silicon structures, and with previously published data relating to etched germanium surfaces."
"The method of obtaining the velocity field relation from the I(V) characteristics of P+FNπP+ structures is analyzed using detailed numerical techniques and semiquantitative analytic descriptions. RRN concluded from differential resistance measurements above punch-through that the velocity was saturated and gave7.5 \\times 10^{6}cm/sec for04\\times10^{5} < E < 1.1 \\times 10^{5}volts/cm. The differential resistance above puncil-through is composed of: first the space-charge resistance component considered by RRN and second, a term which has its origin in the spill-over of holes into the depleted region of the p+n junction. A detailed analysis of the spill-over shows that as the current is increased the built-in field of the p+n junction is markedly reduced, by neutralization of the depleted space charge. This effect, typically 20% of the total differential resistance, is a factor in the accuracy of the hole velocity. In independent experiments on p+pp+ structures, we have found that the velocity increases by ∼ 30% (to an accuracy of ±5%)over the range of fields in the RRN experiment. It is shown for the p+πp+ structure that the J(V) curve is rather insensitive to the v(E) relation and that a non-saturated velocity also fits the RRN experimental results. An additional correction to the space-charge resistance itself comes from the effect of a nonsaturated velocity."
"A quantitative theory of 1/f type noise is derived from the distribution of trapping times for charges in interface states. The distribution of trapping times has been recently explained quantitatively by means of a random distribution of surface potential caused by a random distribution over the plane of the interface of fixed charges located in the oxide. This model, which agrees with the interface state time constant dispersion measured by the MIS conductance technique, leads to a noise spectrum which is independent of frequency at very low frequencies, tends towards a 1/f2dependence at high frequencies, and has an extended 1/f frequency dependence at intermediate frequencies. The mechanism for time constant dispersion is independent of temperature and silicon resistivity; it depends only on the majority carrier density at the silicon surface, the interface state density, and the density of fixed oxide charges. The dependence of open circuit mean square noise voltage on these parameters and frequency are illustrated for an MOS capacitor."
"It is assumed almost invariably in the literature that traps, when present, are distributed uniformly in the bulk of a device. But in unipolar space-charge-limited current (sclc) charge carrier traps suppress current most efficiently when located in the immediate vicinity of the emitter. A new model is developed, therefore, which accounts for this result by assuming that the traps responsible for the current suppression are located at the emitter interface in a surface concentration Σ while the bulk remains free of traps. The analysis has been carried out for traps with one discrete trapping level Etbelow the edge Ebof the conducting band and for the five distinct cases of planar, cylindrical, and spherical configuration. The main results are: (a) The V-I characteristic exhibits the VTFLtypical to many experimental results. (b) The relevant parameter is the ratiorN/ \\Sigma \\exp ((E_{b} - E_{t})/kT), where r is a length characteristic of the geometrical configuration of the device and N is the effective density of states of the conducting band. (c) For a semispherical emitter (\"point contact\") unipolar sclc dominated by interface trapping is essentially independent on sample dimensions."
"Progress is reported on the use of beryllia heat sinks in ring and bar traveling-wave tubes, and on the practical application of collector voltage depression for efficiency enhancement in high power CW tubes. A ring and bar traveling-wave tube has been developed which gives a CW power output of more than 6 kw in the 6 GHz band, with a large-signal gain of 30 dB and a power bandwidth to 1 dB points of 10%. The slow wave structure is machined from high conductivity copper tube and brazed to beryllia posts which provide good thermal connection to a water-cooled copper jacket. Particular care has been taken in the design to combine good mechanical reproducibility with ease of construction and to minimize circuit mismatches. The tube has a new electromagnet which gives excellent beam transmission, with low power consumption and convenience in handling."
"Helix-type TWT's producing several hundred watts of CW power are now available at frequencies up to Ku band. However, similar grid pulsed TWT's have been limited, in the past, to 20 to 40 watts of average power, both by grid power dissipation and excessive beam interception on the helix. This paper describes a 1-kw X-band TWT that makes use of recently developed techniques to remove these limitations and allow operation up to 10% duty."
"A computer program for small-signal gain was written to aid in the design of a TWT helix that would miminize gain variation. The program utilizes most of the classic derivations for the solution of gain equation, but also is able to obtain the exact solution for the TWT quartic equation and, in addition, can be run fast enough for use on a time-shared computer. A theoretically optimum helix was designed by synthesizing curves of phase velocity versus frequency for flat gain over wide bandwidths. Use was made of controlled dispersion to achieve theoretically flat gain. The derived phase-velocity curves are compared with various types of existing helices. The four rod-supported, helices with wrap wire are shown to have phase-velocity variations that compare favorably to the theoretical curves and have less gain variation than other mounting schemes."
"The multicarrier communication measurements performed on a high power, broadband traveling wave amplifier are described in this paper. The technical requirements for fm multicarrier operation of satellite communication links are now being established and these requirements depend heavily on the components presently available. One of the important but previously unevaluated components is the high power, wideband amplifier for the ground stations. The measurements describe the performance of a new high power traveling wave amplifier in wideband multicarrier operation."
"Development of a long-life 250-watt high reliability TWT for community antenna television systems is described. The system is amplitude modulated with carrier frequencies in the 18 GHz region. The nature of the modulation employed places stringent requirements on the intermodulation and spurious modulation in the TWT. Design details are described which permit operation with both intermodulation and spurious modulation at 50 dB below the 0.5 watt carriers."
"A high efficiency ppm focused, traveling-wave tube, which is capable of producing 100 watts of CW power output at 2.3 GHz for space communication use, is described. The achievement of high overall efficiency is the most important aspect of this program since the dc power to the tube represents a major fraction of the total power available on the spacecraft. The tube has produced an overall efficiency of 45%, including heater power, at power levels between 60 and 100 watts at essentially constant gain. Detailed performance curves will be shown. Efficiency improvement work is continuing and any further results will be reported. The tube is of metal-ceramic construction and is designed to operate under launch environmental and space thermal-vacuum conditions. It is mechanically rugged and has demonstrated very low incidental AM and PM modulation under vibration. Cooling of the tube is by conduction. The overall weight of the encapsulated tube is 3.0 lb."
"It has been demonstrated that \"heat pipe\" cooling techniques can be applied to TWT's. Since the \"heat pipe\" will reduce operating temperatures and the temperature drop along the vacuum barrel, improved reliability can be attained. In addition, design flexibility is increased and the overall TWT weight may be reduced. On a specific radially focussed TWT design, the fol lowing improvements were obtained: 1. The radial temperature gradient between the vacuum barrel and th tube housing was reduced to less than 10°C. 2. The axial temperature gradient in the 10-inch long vacuum barrel was reduced to less than 6°C for a heat flux density variation from 10 watts per linear inch to 100 watts per linear inch. 3. The collector's cooling capacity was improved by reducing its axial and radial-temperature gradients."
"Beam lead technology inherently lends itself to integrated microwave devices. Closely controlled junction geometry leads to uniformity of device characteristics. Specially designed tapered leads for improved microwave matching are easily formed using this technology. High speed bonding is also possible, with automatic equipment. These advantages are obtained with a process sequence which allows the use of a since metal deposition step for both the Schottky barrier and beam lead interconnection system. Molybdenum with a gold overlay is the metallurgical system used to form the barrier and the beam lead interconnections. Typical I-V and 1/C2-V plots indicate uniformity of barrier height and \"n\" factor. Values of n are less than 1.1 with the barrier height at 0.61 e.v. Measurements of change in barrier height with temperature up to 500°C show less than 210 mV variation. With the stable moly barrier used, device parameters are a compromise of geometry and epitaxy layer. DC characteristics of these devices give forward current matching of ± 10 mV at 1 ma. The Rs is 10 ohms and the Cj is less than 0.3 pf, giving an RC product less than3 \\times 10_{-12}sec. Using these devices in a chrome-gold on alumina microstrip integrated mixer, overall single sideband noise figures of 6.5- 7.0 dB were measured, with a 1.5 dB IF noise figure, at 9.4 GHz. Measured noise figure was essentially constant over a range of 1-10 mw of local oscillator power, and the diodes will withstand over 500 mw cw RF power. These values compare favorably with discrete packaged devices. Fabrication in series pairs, matched quads or other configurations can be accomplished with good uniformity."
"The use of surface oriented Gunn oscillators and Schottky barrier diodes provides a means of obtaining improved device operation as well as optimum applications in microwave and millimeter wave integrated circuits. This is the result of selective epitaxial depositions of high purity single crystal GaAs with various concentrations into semi-insulating GaAs substrates. Electrical isolation between devices is provicted by the high-resistivity (> 10^{8}ohm-cm) substrates, eliminating the difficulties previously encountered in obtaining isolation with dielectrics, back-etching, p-n junctions, etc. This monolithic integrated circuit approach thus allows for better microwavc performance from the devices since parasitics are reduced to a minimum."
"The paper first discusses the general use of circulators as circuit elements in integrated microwave circuits. In particular it is pointed out that circulators greatly reduce some of the requirements on the other components, thus making possible circuits with higher overall performance than would ordinarily be possible in stripline. And the cost of these circulators is low enough to allow one to use quite a profusion of them."
"Both Gunn oscillators and avalanche diode oscillators have been integrated into microstrip hybrid circuits with good results. Integrated Gunn oscillators have delivered 15-20 mw CW in J-band and X-band. Integrated avalanche diode oscillators have delivered over 0.7-w peak pulse power in X-band."
"This paper presents results of several integrated circulators built in microstrip transmission line. The circulators are of the symmetric junction variety and utilize polycrystalline magnesium-manganese ferrites. Three-port circulators and four-port circulators have been built in x-band. The four-port structure is essentially two three-port circulators fabricated end-to-end on a common substrate. Some of the circulators are fabricated by depositing the metallic microstrip circuit directly onto a ferrite substrate. Some are fabricated by pressing ferrite pucks into an alumina substrate on which the microstrip circuitry is deposited. Small permanent magnets are generally used for bias."
"Packaging of a hermetically sealed X-band microwave integrated circuit module is described. The module is a complete receiver-transmitter, including dipole antenna, for phased array radar applications. The principal problem areas are: 1. Interconnections between microwave thin film ceramic circuit units within the module. 2. Mechanical space limitations, imposed largely by wavelength considerations. 3. Techniques for mounting the ceramic circuit units within the module. 4. External geometry which affects mounting and external connections. 5. Dissipation of heat."
"A new multi-aperture camera tube has been developed for use as the character generator in an electronic photocomposition system known as the Linotron*. The tube is capable of generating alphanumerical characters of graphic arts quality at high speeds. Operating on the image dissector principle, the Linotron contains a photocathode, an electromagnetic imaging section, a dissecting plate with a 16 × 16 aperture array, an electronic switching section, and a ten-stage electron multiplier section. When an array of 256 typographic symbols are optically focused on the photocathode, electron images are formed and then magnetically focused on the aperture plate. Magnetic deflection fields, generated by external coils, scan the electron images across the aperture array and dissect the images into incremental parts. The switching section allows only one of the 256 dissected signals to pass, enter the multiplier section, and produce a video signal at the anode."
"The GRAPHOTRON is a uniform high resolution, high brightness CRT display which provides a high speed sub raster for character generation and is capable of 5000 line resolution and geometrical accuracy of 0.01%. This paper outlines the cathode ray tube and associated focus-deflection component characteristics required to achieve a precision high resolution display for electronic photocomposition, graphic reproduction, flying spot scanner, computer readout and similar applications. Correction of electron beam distortions due to focusing and deflection and a variety of geometric distortions including radial nonlinearity, nonorthogonality, center line bow, sub raster distortions and other pattern errors introduced by deflection and optical components will be discussed."
"This paper reports the performance of a new red phosphor, europium-activated yttrium oxysulfide, which has a luminous efficiency 40% greater than that of yttrium orthovanadate. The use of this phosphor in the P22 color screen of color television receivers results in gun-current ratios which are close to unity when balanced for a \"white\" color temperature of 9300°K. The white-field luminance is increased 20% as compared with that of vanadate P22, screens for equal power dissipation. An even greater increase in highlight brightness is obtained when the guns are driven to the limit for acceptable blooming. Because the red field requires 40% less beam current for the same luminance, there is a corresponding reduction in the stray electron level and the red-field purity is noticeably improved. A description is given of the methods used in measuring the color temperature and luminance of color television picture-tube screens."
"A new form of piezoelectrically driven mirror optical beam deflector has been developed for optical tracking applications. Single 1- 1/2 inch × 2 inch mirrors actuated by lead zicronate titanate bender elements produce one-dimensional deflection angles of ± 1 degree with a base bandwidth of 300 Hz and an applied signal of 800 volts peak to peak. Eight of these mirrors were used in tandem to provide two-dimensional deflection over ± 4 degree angles, covering a one-inch aperture with over 4 million separately resolvable beam positions. Bandwidth was optimized by mounting each mirror on three transducers so as to achieve tilting without wasted transverse motion. In addition, the mirrors were of honeycomb construction to minimize mass while preserving optical flatness to better than one-tenth wavelength."
"A high density, high contrast storage system of about 108bits capacity and submicro-second speed is described. The storage elements are an array of electrically isolated, submicron diameter capacitors, each at the bottom of a hole in a molybdenum-alumina-molybdenum film sandwich on a sapphire substrate. Such mosaics are produced by appropriate sequences of film depositions, electron beam resist formations, and selective etching of unprotected areas."
"This paper describes a new high density field emitting cathode which has possible applications in electron guns for cathode-ray tubes, display tubes and other electronic devices. On the surface of the cathode is a large array of micron size electron emitting projections which have been generated initially by an electronic forming method and maintained during operation by a regenerative process. The number density of the emitting centers is many orders of magnitude larger than that attainable in conventional field emission cathodes. Densities as high as 50,000 centers per sq. cm have been achieved with relative ease and higher densities appear feasible. To date up to 100 hours of life have been obtained with a germanium cathode at a current density of 0.5 amps/cm2. Densities as high as 1.0 amp/cm2have been achieved-from an emitting area 0.1 cm × 0.1 cm square of germanium and silicon."
"Magnetic compression augments the techniques of gun design in areas where voltage breakdown between adjacent electrodes prevents the shaping of the beam by electrostatic fields. The results of pinhole probing experiments of a perveance0.54 \\times 10^{-6}A/V3/2beam are reported. Using the beam from a gun with an electrostatic area compression of 80:1 the beam was further compressed by suitable magnetic fields into a stable flow to an area compression of 250:1, 500:1 and 1000:1. The compressed beam has an axially invariant, almost Gaussian cross section which may be analyzed by the Pierce-Walker statistical theory of thermal velocities. Results of a comparison between theory and experiment are given."
"An experiment is described which was designed to study the factors influencing high voltage breakdown in vacuum, with particular application to problems encountered in the development of high power vacuum tubes. The first part was devoted to developing procedures for preparation and voltage conditioning of electrodes in vacuum with minimal sparking. The next objective was to determine if there was a generally reliable and consistent criterion which could be used to predict electrical breakdown of vacuum gaps without damaging the electrode surfaces. In pursuance of this, instrumentation and monitoring techniques were developed in order to describe the gap as fully as possible during the pre-breakdown and breakdown stages. Thus, during stepwise application of voltage, the following were monitored: micro-discharge activity, magnitude and waveshape of gap current, light output, partial pressure of hydrogen or nitrogen and X-radiation. For the second phase of the experiment, the voltage range was extended to 300 kv using a stainless steel bakeable chamber. Also, a statistical design was chosen because it provides a powerful tool for the analysis of the results, and yields information on the effects of both selected individual factors and two-factor interactions with a minimum number of experiments. The first such experiment involving seven factors has been completed and the results analyzed both on a statistical and a physical basis. Some significant trends have emerged from the statistical analysis and, encouragingly, these have been found to be consistent with theories of the mechanism of breakdown developed from the physical analysis."
"Electron guns of high convergence and high perveance are essential for high efficiency, high power microwave electron tubes of the linear beam type. In conventional convergent guns, however, the conditions for high convergence and those for high perveance contradict each other."
"A theory of operation is developed for the continuous dynode channel electron multiplier and its validity checked by comparison with experimentally measured data. Secondary emission, the multiplication mechanism inside the channel, is best described by a Maxwell distribution in energy and a Lambert distribution in direction of released electrons. Electron motion in the uniform axial field of the channel interior leads to three probability density functions describing at a fixed time interval after emission the electron's expected location. A graphical method is employed to relate the probability of being able to locate the electro with respect to the cylindrical channel geometry."
"The question of which electrode in a two-electrode system, the anode or the cathode, contributes most to the primary voltage breakdown mechanism, and the reasons for this contribution, has been the subject of wide debate among workers in the field. Theories of breakdown have been proposed by Cranberg, Alpert et al, Slivkov, Utsumi and Dalman, and others which involve the anode or the cathode or both to varying extent. Recent data collected by Watson, Mulcahy, and Bells and by Kranjec and Ruby, when subjected to analysis, indicate a role of the anode material in the breakdown process sufficiently clear to be applied in high-voltage vacuum tube construction. Both the analysis and data collected by Taylor and Chrepta indicate that heating of the anode owing to the flow of field emission is a primary cause of breakdown at spacings of interest in vacuum tube technology."
"This paper describes the effects of ionized gas particles on the performance of low-power traveling-wave tabes. Correlation between theoretical design and actual performance is briefly discussed for low-level (10-milliwatt) traveling-wave tubes using convergent and parallel-flow electron guns. The degradation of performance produced by the presence of ions which tend to neutralize space charge is discussed at length."
"The development and commercial availability of continuous dynode electron multipliers has provided a useful capability for substantial current amplification (gains of 106to 108) in a small, light, simple, reliable low-power device that can be subjected to atmospheric exposure. For space probe particle sampling and other applications, long-term gain stability (or predictable gain variations for which compensation can be provided) is highly desirable."
"This paper reports the analysis and observation of CO2laser mode-locking produced by interactivity loss modulation. Previous more-locked lasers have involved the coupling of a number of already-oscillating modes. It was recently predicted by McDuff and Harris (IEEE J. Quant. Electr., QE-3, 101, 1967) that even in lasers such as CO2which have such narrow fluorescence linewidths that only oxial mode is above the threshold for oscillation, it is possible to transfer sufficient energy from that mode to neighboring below threshold axial modes to effect mode-locked, pulsed operation. For the small-signal-saturation case which they considered, both narrow output pulse widths and large peak power enhancement were predicted. This is the same behavior as is characteristic of normal mode-locked multi-mode lasers. Modifying their analysis to include the effects of nonlinear saturation, we find that the narrow pulses are obtained, but with only slight increase in peak power."
"Experiments have been performed to measure the gain of CO2-N2-He gas lasers on individual rotation-vibration transistions in the P and R branches of CO2around 10.6 µm. Small signal gain was measured on P-2 to P-44 inclusively and on R-0 to R-44 inclusively. The distribution of small signal gain from line to line in the band is used to determine the rotational temperatures describing the rotational level populations in the 00° 1 and 10° 0 vibrational states. Experiments were also performed to measure the power level at which each rotation-vibration transition begins to saturate in a one meter tube. This information may be used to infer information concerning pumping and relaxation processes in such laser systems."
"Stabilized gas laser systems have failed to achieve the ideal stability, determined by fundamental noise, by as much as five orders of magnitude. Regardless of techniques used, long term stability has been limited by changes in discharge parameters affecting the center frequency of the spectral line used as the reference. The most serious causes of instability are the changes in gas density, composition, temperature, and electron density which are difficult to avoid in a gas discharge."
"A short-term frequency-stabilized, single-frequency, sealed-off CO2laser is described which is capable of emitting 20 watts in a single mode. The technique used to obtain both high power and high frequency stability simultaneously utilizes a master oscillator-power amplifier approach. The oscillator consists of a 3-5 watt, 1-meter long Brewster angle laser. Single wavelength operation is obtained by length tuning the laser. Heterodyne measurements on two oscillator units have indicated short-term stabilities of better than 1:109(30 kHz) in a normal laboratory environment. Instabilities are primarily due to atmospheric pressure fluctuations, airborne vibrations due to laboratory noise and vibrations from the cooling water used with the lasers. Long-term frequency stabilities of about 1:107(3 MHz) have been obtained by thermal control techniques alone. The amplifier required to increase the laser power to 20 watts consists of two dc-operated 2-meter long tubes with Brewster windows. The design and operating characteristics of the laser will be given with up-to-date performance results."
"A heated platinum wire was used in a sealed CO2-N2-He laser system, resulting in increases in output power that were dependent on the initial fill pressure of CO2. The system was also filled with a CO2-He mixture and made to lase. Heating of the platinum wire caused a decrease in output power. It was tentatively concluded that the platinum catalyzes the reaction CO + O → CO2, permitting a higher concentration of CO2in a sealed system than is otherwise possible."
"We have obtained a lifetime ill excess of 1100 hours on one gas fill of a static gas cw CO2-He laser. The Brewster window tube, which has a 92-cm discharge length and a 10 mm i.d., produced an output power of 1.4W (within 10%) throughout this period, and showed no indication of decreasing when the test was arbitrarily terminated. From this and other lifetest data to be reported, the long life is attributed to exclusion of nitrogen, careful vacuum technique and outgassing procedure, and dc electrodes which minimize hot spots and sputtering. In all our tests addition of nitrogen to CO2and to CO2plus He caused short lifetimes and reduced output power except in the first few sconds. The partial pressure of CO2was measured by condensing it in a cold finger at 77 ° K. After 1100 hours of continuous operation, a measurement of the CO2partial pressure showed that only 15% of the CO2gas fill was undissociated. The low efficiency (1%) of this tube is due to the high absorption loss in the Irtran 2 windows, which, however, are nonhygroscopic and thus useful for lifetest data."
"All-epitaxial bipolar transistors have been fabricated in silicon-on-sapphire films which exhibit a common-emitter low frequency current gain hfeof 10 at room temperature. The value of hfeincreases approximately as the square of the absolute temperature, which suggests recombination by charged coulomb centers in the base region. Monotonic increase in hfewith collector current up to 100 mA (emitter area is 0.8 × 1.2 sq. mils) is probably due to trap-filling in the base region. No conductivity modulation, which would result in beta fall-off, is seen up to 500 mA of collector current. This is a narrow (0.6\\microM), heavily doped (\\sim 10^{7};cm-3) base region."
"A Ge-GaAs wide band gap emitter transistor has been realized that exhibits useable current gain. The method of fabrication and the transistor characteristics will be described. Useable current gains of 15 to 30 are observed in a structure with an n-GaAs wide band gap emitter and a p-n Ge base-collector region at current densities of 1000 A/cm2. A typical device to be described has a collector doping of 1016/cm3, a 1-micron wide strongly graded diffused base with a maximum doping level of5 \\times 10^{9}/cm3, and a thin emitter doped to2 \\times 10^{8}/cm3. The attainment of current gain in a structure with the base region more heavily doped than the wide band gap emitter is in agreement with Kroemer's theory."
"An experimental solid-state triode directly analogous to a vacuum-tube triode is described. Control and modulation of the flow of space-charge-limited (SCL) electron currents in germanium have been achieved by inserting a control electrode into an n+πn+ solid-state diode. This electrode consists of a set of closely spaced p+ stripes that are capacitively coupled with the emitter and collector. Results indicate that the control electrode modulates the current flow in a manner analogous to that of the grid electrode in a vacuum-tube triode. The SCL current obeys the three-halves power law as predicted for a field-dependent mobility of the form\\micro = \\micro o(E_{c}/E)^{1/2}where\\micro0 is the low field mobility and Ecthe critical electric field. An analysis of the I-V characteristics of the fabricated solid-state triodes reveals that these structures are capable of exhibiting a high transconductance, a large amplification factor, and an input impedance greater than a megohm. An important advantage of such a device is a potentially low noise figure as predicted by theory. Other attractive features of the device, such as a low sensitivity to temperature changes and an expected high frequency response, will also be discussed."
"A novel device design is described whereby the phenomenon of punch-through, normally an undesired effect between different active elements in a semiconductor, is employed as an intentional voltage- and polarity-dependent connection between several separate areas of the same element in order to achieve certain asymmetric polarity characteristics. Although this means of connection is applicable to many devices, a high voltage lateral SCR for electroluminescent driver applications will be described, in which several auxiliary anodes are arrayed annularly about the central gate-cathode structure. Ohmic connection is made to only one of these, the remaining areas to be connected by space charge extension during reverse bias."
"The principles of operation and performance limitations of a class of high-performance electron beam -- pn junction active devices are discussed. The primary assumptions are that (1) the beam diode is designed so that carrier generation and transport occur entirely in a region of high electric field, (2) carrier pairs are created near one edge of the beam diode by the electron bombardment, (3) carriers traverse the depletion region with a constant drift velocity, and (4) the beam diode is connected to a real load impedance, such as a reflectionless transmission line."
"Metal-semiconductor barriers which exhibit near ideal forward and reverse I-V characteristics have been fabricated. Typically, for a device with an area of5 \\times 10^{-6}cm2made on an n-type, oriented, 0.5 ohm-cm silicon substrate, the forward current at room temperature follows the expressionI_{f} = I_{s} \\exp (qV/nkT)over eight orders of magnitude in current withI_{s} = 10_{-12}amp and n = 1.01. The breakdown voltage is 50 volts, in excellent agreement with the ideal breakdown voltage of p+n silicon junctions of the same n-type doping. The recovery time measured at 10 ma is less than 0.1 ns, the resolution of the measurement."
"A unique epitaxial filamentary transistor design, using the substrate as the emitter, described. This structure is made by growing a high-resistivity boron-doped epitaxial layer on a low-resistivity arsenic-doped substrate. Contact is made from the surface to the substrate with a phosphorus diffusion. Ring-and-dot base contacts are made directly on the p-type epitaxial layer with the beam-lead contact process. The spreading resistance under the dot is conductivity modulated when the substrate is adequately biased in the forward direction with respect to the most positive potential point on the edge of the space-charge region in the epitaxial layer. With the dot grounded and a negative bias on the ring, this point lies below the dot. Potential distributions during the off state have been calculated on the computer and will be presented."
"Anomalously high photovoltages, which were first observed in 1946 in PbS thin films and which have since been detected in various other materials, have caused world-wide controversy. A strongly supported explanation is now provided for these photovoltages. After five years of study, the Uzbek academician E. I. Adirovich, together with a team of researchers, has shown that the reason for past confusion is that the effect is not caused by a single mechanism, but depending on the crystallographic structure of the materials, is caused either by p-n junctions, the Dember effect, or the anomalous Dember effect. By studying the angular dependence of the anomalous photovoltage in monochromatic light, a determination can be made as to which of the three mechanisms is responsible for the effect in a particular case. The work of Adirovich and his group is reviewed against the broad background of the rapidly expanding Soviet photovoltaic research."
"A novel channel configuration involving a cylindrical coaxial geometry is proposed for MHD power generation. The generator channel consists of two coaxial cylinders with a smooth annular space between them, through which pressure driven ionized gas flows axially. Magnetic poles and electrodes separated by insulators are embedded in both the inner and outer cylinders. Considering the electrode width θeand the radii of the two coaxial cylinders (r0and ri) to be variables, a rigorous computer analysis of the device is carried out for a one dimensional flow. In the efficiency computations, losses such as heat transfer, viscous friction, plasma resistivity, etc. are taken into account."
"Germanium P-I-N photovoltaic cells, with active areas of 1.1 cm2, for use at the high power densities encountered in thermo-photo-voltaic energy conversion systems have been analyzed, fabricated, and tested. This structure has interdigitated contacts located on the unilluminated side of the device to prevent optical masking. Junctions were alloyed at low temperatures (430°C) in order to preserve the free carrier lifetime of the intrinsic region."
"In the electrofluiddynamic (EFD) generator process the kinetic energy of a gas flow is directly transformed into electrical energy. This process is similar to Magnetohydrodynamics except that unipolar charges are employed, and the working fluid is highly nonconductive. In EFD generator processes, a particular problem exists in generating low mobility unipolar charges in subsonic flow since expansion processes providing consideration around ions in subsonic flow is not possible. Thus experimental effort was imitiated on generation of charged aerosols by electrohydrodynamic spraying. This process however is also applicable in supersonic flow. Various liquids were sprayed through a metal capillary at very high electric field strengths into high pressure (up to 40 atms) gas flows to simulate conditions in an EFD generator. The current produced as the charged spray ruptures is a function of local electric field strength, the liquid properties, and the velocity of the working fluid. Of these parameters the effects of liquid properties, such as surface tension, electrical conductivity, density, and mass flow rate are investigated. The experiments show that the current generated increases with the surface tension, electrical conductivity, mass flow rate of the liquid, and the velocity of the working fluid. The current output decreases at the same time with an increase of the density of the liquid. A semi-empirical relation of the current output with the indicated variables is obtained using dimensional analysis, and good agreement is shown with the experimental values."
"An EHD energy converter is a high voltage device that converts the kinetic energy of a moving gas stream into electrical energy. This converter has an optimum load requirement for maximum power output. For load resistances larger than this optimum, it behaves as a constant voltage generator. For values smaller, it behaves as a constant current generator. These nonoptimum values are detrimental to the converter."
"Electrical and material limitations in the fabrication of monolithic circuits can be directly attributed to theg orientation commonly used for silicon substate material. It has been found that the orientation provides significant improvements in material perfection and accompanying increased junction breakdown voltage and device beta. Epitaxial film growth is dependent on crystallographic characteristics of the starting substrate. substrates receiving a pre-epitaxial oxidation and diffusion have exhibited a high imperfection density which yields as high as 50,000/cm2stacking faults after film growth. These have been reduced by orders of magnitude by using 100 substrates. A direct consequence of this would be higher monolithic circuit yields. Also, the slow growing orientation exhibits a horizontal mode of growth which can be greater than the vertical epitaxial thickness. This could yield significant errors in diffusion mask alignment with respect to sites fabricated prior to deposition. 100 material virtually eliminates this effect, allowing the design of more densely packed circuits."
"A new technique for simultaneously generating multiple images of a single mask is described and application of this technique to photomasking for integrated circuits is discussed. A Fourier-transform hologram of an array of \"point sources\" is used, in conjunction with two lenses, to project any \"input\" image into an array of identical \"output\" images. Magnification or demagnification are easily achieved."
"Considerable improvement in yield may be expected from projection exposure of wafers, since the mask defects may be virtually eliminated and some of the diffraction problems associated with contact printing minimized. The described system, developed over the past two years, consists of a 1000-W Hg arc with a 4047Å concentric interference filter, 360 mm in diameter 4 element condenser of 0.80NA with one aspheric, a diffraction limited F/3.0 lens working at 10 times reduction, covering 32 mm dia field and a wafer alignment station."
"The edge resolution of electron exposed resists was investigated in order to determine the suitability of these resists for microcircuit fabrication. Both negative and positive resists have been evaluated including KTFR (Kodak Thin Film Resist), Shipley AZ-1350 and polymethyl methacrylate. Of these, KTFR in layer thicknesses of 5000Å has been found to require a charge density of approximately3 \\times 10^{-5}coul/cm2at 10-15 kv, for optimum exposure. Edge resolutions were investigated by exposing lines and observing cross sections in the scanning electron microscope. It was found that a 10 micron wide line of KTFR exposed at 10 kv, shows a smoothly sloping edge af about 2 microns on either side after development. For this reason KTFR was considered unsuitable for submicron device fabrication."
"The chemical etch rate of solicon dioxide layers can be increased typically 3 to 4 times by bombardment with energetic, electrons. It was shown earlier that this phenomenon could be used to produce diffusion windows and hence to fabricate planar silicon devices without any photo-resist steps. The excellent resolution capabilities (<0.6 micron holes) of the bombardment enhanced etch rate (BEER) process make it attractive for fabrication of micron size devices and large arrays provided that the proper bombardment patterns can be generated."
"A novel method for obtaining dynamic, real time, high spatial resolution temperature distribution over surfaces of electronic components is presented. The thermometric medium is a liquid crystalline coating deposited on the devices to be measured. It scatters incident white light into bright colors in response to the temperature of the device. Each scattered color uniquely represents a temperature. The response is in milliseconds. The process is reversible and has high spatial resolution over any size area."
"This paper is a comparison of both germanium and silicon NPN double-diffused transistors used as small, signal, low noise amplifiers in the frequency range of 1-6 GHz. With the development of the necessary oxide masking and shallow diffusion technologies, it has been possible to fabricate NPN double-diffused planar germanium transistors using the more sophisticated multi-stripe transistor geometries which have been used in the fabrication of microwave silicon transistors."
"A self-consistent scheme of subpicocoulomb charge measurement and two-dimensional, transport analysis has been used to calculate the distribution of charge in high speed (3-7 GHz) Ge and Si transistors. This scheme carefully measures total stored charge and calculates the mobile charge stored in the two-dimensional base and collector space charge regions. Storage in the emitter space charge layer is obtained by subtraction of calculated charge from measured charge. The conclusions of this study are\" (1) The majority (as much as 80%) of the mobile charge is stored in the emitter; (2) 30-50% of the remaining charge is injected through the emitter side-wall and stored in the remote base region; (3) overall transit time is dominated by low field mobility regions -- thus Johnson's fundamental limitations do not apply, and the transit time of state-of-the-art devices continues to reflect the low-field mobility of the material (\\microGe ∼ 3 ×\\microSi)."
"Si NPvN microwave transistors have been designed and fabricated with the objective of maximizing power gain by widening the collector depletion region (output space) far beyond that which gives maximum fT. For maximum power gain the output space delay angle should be roughly 1/8 of an rf cycle and consequently the optimum output spacing depends on the operating frequency. Increasing the output space leads to increased power gain at the expense of lower fT and higher output impedance."
"The recent progress on pyrolytic deposition of masking films on semiconductor surfaces allows one to adopt double diffused technologies for Ge similar to that used for Si. Because of the more favorable material properties, Ge offers the possibility of higher speed and frequency devices. This paper describes the process of double diffused npn and npn planar transistors. The lateral dimensions of the three stripe transistors are such that conventional photoresist processes can be applied. The emitter stripe width is 5\\micro, emitter and base are separated by 5\\micro. Impurity profiles are discussed for both types of transistors. To obtain high speed transistors, the diffused structures are rather shallow. The emitter depth and base width are 2/\\micro."
"Since the introduction of the silicon planar technology, germanium devices have gradually been replaced in the electronics field. This is mainly due to the lack of a germanium planar technology attributable to, among other reasons, the lack of a stable self-protective oxide on germanium. With the advent of insulator or oxide technologies, a germanium planar technology has been developed The technology has been proven to be parallel to that of silicon in its potential for fabricating diodes, transistors, as well as integrated circuits. However, this paper shall describe its utilization in fabricating ultra-high speed devices and integrated circuits. Because of higher mobilities of both electrons and holes in germanium than that in silicon, higher frequency or speed performances with germanium devices than that with silicon devices have been expected and realized."
"This report describes the work performed in the development of laminated transistors for radio frequency application. It outlines the specific advantages obtainable from laminated structures, and presents specific transistor design considerations. Novel techniques and special tools that replace conventional transistor fabrication methods are explained as well as the evolution of these techniques leading to a complete processing technology. The method of incorporating emitter-ballast resistors to protect against secondary breakdown and the use of glassing for hermetic protection of junctions is described. A double heat-sink package of low thermal resistance has been developed specifically for use with the laminated transistor."
"A 1600-volt switching transistor has been developed for use in an electronic gyro suspension system. This paper describes the design criteria and processes for this NPN silicon device. The major requirements for this transistor are to obtain a stable collector-base breakdown voltage of > 1600 volts, a collector-emitter saturation voltage of < 4.0 volts and an ftspecification of 40MHz. Two methods have been used for fabricating the transistor. One method employs a deep double diffused structure and the other uses an epitaxial grown base layer and a diffused emitter structure. Both methods utilize an etched mesa junction with oxide passivation and have produced devices which meet the required specification."
"This paper discusses the design, construction, and performance of a wideband ferrite duplexer for airborne radar application. The duplexer, in conjunction with fixed and switchable circulators, replaces the conventional gas-filled TR tube, allowing the receiver and magnetron to share a common antenna. Radar reliability is significantly improved by the elimination of the spike leakage which occurs in gas-filled TR tubes"
"The conventional method of achieving reliable receiver protection for sensitive microwave receivers is to use a limiter consisting of a plasma stage and a varactor stage. The plasma limiter is used to reduce the incident power to a level that can be safely limited by the varactor device. The major power that is incident on the varactor is the spike leakage pulse that is caused by the slow response time of the plasma device. The fast response time of the varactor makes it ideal for reducing the spike energy. The varactor cannot be used alone because of its limited power handling capacity and a catastrophic failure mechanism."
"The design of the cylindrical pre-TR is a compromise between the amount of power than can be safely absorbed by the window and the low-level insertion loss. Once the low-level insertion loss and recovery time of a duplexer have been fixed, the feasibility of the device depends on dissipating the heat generated in the plasma discharge without exceeding the critical temperature of the dielectric user to contain the gas."
"Microwave harmonic generation in a plasma capacitor is investigated both theoretically and experimentally. Deficiencies of previous harmonic generation theories are pointed out and a nonlinear one-dimensional mathematical model, which includes the reactive nonlinearity due to the spatial variation of E, is developed. This nonlinear plasma capacitor model indicates that, under certain electron density and capacitor plate spacing conditions, strong harmonic resonances are present. These resonances occur when n ω1= ωpand n ω1> ωpwhere ωp= plasma frequency, ω1= the fundamental frequency and n is the harmonic number."
"A development program has resulted in an interesting high power pulse amplifier which is essentially an electron beam multiplier and is referred to as an EBM. The device consists of a silicon diode mounted on a heat sink, and an electron gun enclosed in an evaluated envelope. The gun and diode are arranged so that pulsed 20 KV electrons can be focused on to the central active portion of the diode."
"Electron multipacting has been of interest to designers and users of electron devices chiefly as an unwanted side effect. This mechanism, however, also affords a relatively simple cold cathode mechanism for the generation of radio frequency power. The performance of coaxial tubes consisting of a fairly open anode structure surrounded by a cylindrical dynode has been studied. A maximum output power of 250 watts was obtained at 10 MHz with efficiencies ranging from 50 to 80%. Output power is limited at higher frequencies due to limited dissipation in the smaller structures required."
"One of the most attractive features of limiters using YIG and other ferrite materials is their ability to limit signals independently, and their relative freedom from inter-modulation and mixing. Most YIG limiters now in use are relatively narrow-band devices covering less than 100 MHz. In the case of coincidence limiters and premature decline limiters, the narrow bandwidth results from their dependence on the main resonance of the YIG. Subsidiary resonance absorption can occur over a much wider range of frequencies; however, the threshold field for this absorption is relatively high, and low limiting levels have been obtained previously by using resonant techniques to concentrate the field. These, in turn, have restricted the bandwidth of these devices."
"The use of geometrical techniques to provide a converging plasma in order to achieve high charge densities is treated in this report. The applicability of this phenomenon in achieving plasma resonance frequencies in the millimeter range without applying either relatively high drive energy or external magnetic fields is evaluated both experimentally and analytically. An experimental mode employing a focusing cone to cause plasma convergence over a small volume located within a WR28 (26 to 40 GHz) waveguide was used as a test vehicle. Experimental measurements reveal high rf isolation capabilities over full waveguide bandwidth when the model is active, and extremely low rf loss when it is passive."
"Flexibility in the application of energy conversion devices may be greatly enhanced by using semiconductor inverters to obtain ac voltages and/or multilevel or high voltage dc. But, design of semiconductor inverters to operate efficiently from the low voltage, high current output of such energy sources as fuel cells, sea cells and single-cell batteries requires careful consideration of semiconductor parameters and their effect upon inverter performance. Comparative advantages and limitations are presented for SCR's, tunnel diodes and transistors as inverter devices. Important device characteristics and their relation to inverter performance are summarized."
"The theory and construction of an npn silicon transistor with less than 200 millivolts saturation voltage at 75 amperes are presented. To achieve a low saturation voltage requires low collector resistivity, high forward and inverse alphas collector-to-emitter current gain) at high current, and low resistance metal contacts. A p-type epitaxial base layer grown on a heavily doped n-type substrate provides the low collector bulk resistance. Diffused emitters in tee form of long narrow stripes provide good high-current forward alpha by maximizing the emitter periphery near where most of the current flows. A p+ surface layer on the base provides a built-in field keeping minority carriers away from surface recombination centers. This improves both forward and inverse alphas. The high collector doping, and an emitter area as nearly equal to the collector area as possible, results in high inverse alpha. Silver emitter and base stripes plated on evaporated aluminum-chromium ohmic contacts provide the necessary low resistance to maintain uniform current diffusion."
"The construction of bipolar nickel-cadmium batteries eliminates the intercell connectors of commonly used geometrical configurations and also changes the current paths through a cell. This configuration permits current densities of 10 amperes per square inch to be achieved at the maximum power transfer point as opposed to about 3 amperes per square inch available from present cell arrangements. At 10 amperes per square inch the power-to-weight ratio is 1 kilowatt per pound. At lower current densities this value is appropriately decreased."
"Charging of sealed nickel-cadmium batteries is limited to rates at which a balance between generation and recombination of gases occurs at an acceptable internal pressure. Sensing of the completion of charge using conventional cells has not been generally economic, leading to charge rates corresponding to minimum charge times of 14 to 16 hours."
"Limitations of the present state of magnetically enhanced thermoelectric progress in cryogenics is assessed, and anticipation of technology through the next decade of semimetals research is presented. There exists no published investigation on the thermoelectric (Peltier) or the thermomagnetic (Ettingshausen) cooling of fluids as cold as those of subcooled hydrogen or of slush hydrogen. To lead to the use of an electronic mode of refrigeration for spacecraft cryogens, certain research milestones are yet to be reached in solid-state physics. These goals are here viewed from a systems-engineering perspective. This appraisal extrapolates present advances in such means of cooling to applicable space-storage propellant requirements of a planetary-mission vehicle. A module arrangement of a cooling cascade of semimetal crystals is introduced for study, and feasibility is ascertained on the basis of projected research progress with semimetal figures-of-merit. Hypothetical coefficients of performance are calculated and correlated with tradeoffs on cascade efficiencies and isotopic power-supply weight penalties. Long-term space-storage requirements for hydrogen are shown to be distinctly suited to such advanced solid-state electronic mode of refrigeration, based on system effectiveness rather than on thermoelectric efficiency."
"Contains various advertisements, welcome messages, committee or program information, and other miscellaneous conference information. This may in some cases also include the table of contents, copyright statements, title-page or half title-pages, blank pages, venue maps or other general information relating to the conference that was part of the original conference proceedings."
"Presents the table of contents for the proceedings."
"Front matter may contain various miscellaneous pages grouped together. This can include the cover art, table of contents, copyright statements, contributor biographies, welcome messages, society-related news or program information, advertisements, and other and miscellaneous information relating to the particular issue as originally published."
"Contains various contributor biographies, advertisements, indexes, and other miscellaneous issue information. This may in some cases also include society or committee information, blank pages, covers or other general information relating to the particular issue as originally published."
"Front matter may contain various miscellaneous pages grouped together. This can include the cover art, table of contents, copyright statements, contributor biographies, welcome messages, society-related news or program information, advertisements, and other and miscellaneous information relating to the particular issue as originally published."
"Presents a biographical entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
"Front matter may contain various miscellaneous pages grouped together. This can include the cover art, table of contents, copyright statements, contributor biographies, welcome messages, society-related news or program information, advertisements, and other and miscellaneous information relating to the particular issue as originally published."
"Presents a biographical entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"The parametric interaction between a continuous, forward-traveling longitudinal elastic wave pump and continuous, forward- and backward-traveling transverse elastic waves is considered. The coupling between the waves is provided by third-order terms in the elastic energy density. Using \"typical\" values for loss and nonlinearity and omitting all reflected waves in the analysis, the threshold value of longitudinal wave pump at 3 GHz needed to generate the two transverse waves from the thermal background is calculated. Also, amplification coefficients, for either forward- or backward-traveling transverse signal waves are calculated for a 3-GHz pump and for various pump amplitudes and interaction distances. It appears that amplification is only practical for a continous wave pump strain amplitude of at least 10-6 which with current experimental practice is probably too high to realize. If, however, continuous wave strain amplitudes this large could be realized, and if a reflectionless experimental situation could be achieved, the analysis will show that a high-gain, parametric transverse elastic wave amplifier could be constructed. The highgain region could be achieved by operating the device very near to the conditions where it becomes a \"backward-wave-oscillator\" (BWO)."
"Presents a biographical entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
"This index covers all technical items - papers, correspondence, reviews, etc. - that appeared in this periodical during the year, and items from previous years that were commented upon or corrected in this year. Departments and other items may also be covered if they have been judged to have archival value. The Author Index contains the primary entry for each item, listed under the first author's name. The primary entry includes the coauthors' names, the title of the paper or other item, and its location, specified by the publication abbreviation, year, month, and inclusive pagination. The Subject Index contains entries describing the item under all appropriate subject headings, plus the first author's name, the publication abbreviation, month, and year, and inclusive pages. Note that the item title is found only under the primary entry in the Author Index."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Provides a schedule of conference events and a listing of which papers were presented in each session."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"In mobile radio systems, especially in urban mobile service, one fixed transmitting station is located at the center part of the area, while several fixed receiving stations are installed at different location. In such systems the receiving station with the highest signal-to-noise ratio should be selected at all times. This paper presents two methods to select the best receiving station. One is an analog processed switching system. The other is a digital processed system. The design objectives, circuit diagrams and characteristics are described in detail. The performance of these two systems were compared in a field test. It became clear that there were no essential differences in the performance. The analog system was adopted in the actual mobile system taking into consideration the advantage in cost."
"Experimental measurements of mobile radio transmission have been made in a suburban area at 0.836 GHz and 11.2 GHz. The results are presented in terms of average transmission loss, level crossing rates, power spectra, average duration of fades, and probability distributions. Fading rates were predictably higher at 11.2 GHz but the average excess path loss over the free space calculation was comparable to the values obtained at UHF, lending encouragement to possible exploitation of the higher microwave bands for mobile radio."
"Radio equipment and systems designers face an alarming complexity of considerations, when they attempt to calculate probable interference rates. Only a computer is able to handle all of these variables and predict system performance to a meaningful degree of probability. Therefore, this paper describes a computer simulation approach which has been used to: (1) Explore the relation between interference rates and equipment characteristics; (2) Determine the manner in which channel loading affects the various types of interference; and (3) Analyze multi-system configurations of both the concentrated and the geographically spread types."
"This paper describes utilization of the energy density concept to reduce the effect of signal fading. An antenna was developed which could receive three field components Ez, Hx, and Hysimultaneously from a mobile radio field. Summing the squares of these signals then gave an output proportional to the energy density. Comparing the observed level crossing rates, the average duration of fades, and the power spectra of the electric field alone with those of the energy density signal, it was found that the latter faded much less frequently than the E field. A theoretical analysis was developed from a simple statistical model, with results that were in reasonable agreement with experiment."
"An attempt to reduce multipath fading in UHF mobile radio communication by the use of a space diversity receiver has been made. An 836 MHz pre-detection diversity combining receiver using phase equalization by multiple heterodyning in four separate branches or channels has been built and evaluated. The fading range in the combined signal is greatly reduced over that in an individual signal and there is a significant difference in its statistical nature. In addition an improvement in receiver threshold with four channels combined was observed."
"Increased usage of the Land Mobile Service, increasing sensitivity of receivers, and greater demands on communication systems are causing attention to be directed toward interference radiated from automotive ignition systems. Although U.S. vehicles are presently designed to limit radiation, lack of uniformity exists between standards in North America and Europe, resulting in duplication of test work. The United States automotive industry is cooperating in the development of a world-wide standard using a unique sampling procedure, and has used new computer techniques to derive a greater amount of information from data available. Revisions now under way in the U.S. industry standard will provide procedures and limits to 1000 MHz, will protect all present TV bands, and will make our standards compatible with Common Market usage. Theoretical studies and testing show that vehicular radiation decreases above 400 MHz and that existing techniques may prove satisfactory. Joint studies of an FCC-industry group are expected to develop additional information."
"Presents the cover/table of contents for the proceedings."
"A detailed study has been made of the land mobile service frequency congestion situation in the New York City area. The conclusion is reached that the 150 Mc band is saturated and that the 450 Mc band will also be saturated in the middle 1970's. Suggestions are made for improved frequency management methods. However, even with such improved management, it is shown that additional allocations are needed."
"The author argues that a deliberate attempt should be made in system design to restrict the coverage of each system to the required area only. This can be done by limitation of transmitter power, limitation of receiver sensitivity, and avoidance of high locations where possible. This would enable more users to talk on each channel in a given geographical area, thus making more efficient use of a radio spectrum which will always be overcrowded. One advantage of VHF is the limited area a base station can cover; escalation of ERP defeats this advantage."
"As the proposed LMAC recommendations are inadequate for long range utilization of the spectrum for mobile radio purposes, the paper proposes a common user approach for private mobile systems in metropolitan areas. It is indicated that spectrum utilization could be many thousand times more efficient than with the current practice where each private system is assigned a specific channel. Estimated costs are given."
"More than 50% of the radio spectrum below 1,000 MHz has been allocated to the broadcast services. Less than 15% of this broadcast space is currently being utilized in the New York City metropolitan area. Even less is being utilized in most other areas. Within the unused television channels, there is room for more than 15,000 land mobile radio channels. But, the broadcast industry is not eager to give up any of its available spectrum space. We can, however, utilize broadcast facilities to alleviate congestion in the mobile radio services without taking away any broadcast channels. We can make use of what I call a vast \"waistband\". Any of the nation's 1800 FM broadcast stations can apply for a Subsidiary Carrier Authorization, known as an SCA. At the present time, FM broadcast stations with an SCA channel usiet for broadcasting background music and for storecasting. The SCA channel is transmitted simultaneously with the main channel public program."
"Although more reliable than vacuum tubes when properly applied, transistors are considerably more sensitive to abuse. When used in RF power amplifiers, they are likely to be subjected to conditions which might cause failure by second breakdown or over-dissipation. Protection against second breakdown is generally afforded by operation with supply voltages sufficiently below the breakdown level. The brute force approach to avoiding over-dissipation by limiting maximum input power to a level which can never cause over-dissipation is effective, but prevents realization of more than a small fraction of the transistor's capabilities. The transistor can be operated at a higher power level and remain protected by using circuitry which measures the power output and device temperature and adjusts the power input limit accordingly. In effect, the circuitry measures the temperature, computes the maximum permissible device dissipation at that temperature, and adjusts the power input so that the difference between power input and measured power output does not exceed the computed maximum permissible device dissipation. The use of this type of protection in one case has resulted in safe operation at 200% more power output than would have been permissible with the brute force approach."
"An analysis of the mechanism of desensitization - or blocking - in the RF- and mixer stage of a transistorized PM/FM receiver is given, and it is shown, that noise figure degradation because of noise conversion is the principal source of receiver desensitization. A simple expression for the noise factor increase as a function of the level of the interfering signal is derived. Using this result an expression for the overall blocking level of a receiver, where blocking may take place in the RF-stage and/or in the mixer stage, is developed, and the influence of RF-stage and mixer stage parameters on the overall receiver blocking level is analyzed. The theoretical results are supported by results of measurements on practical receiver circuits."
"The paper is directed to the subject of highway communication as related to enhancement of safety and services on the national road network. Included is a discussion of the transmission means by which an integrated multi-purpose system, having a relatively-high degree of efficiency in use of the radio spectrum, may be effectuated. Reference is made to the proceedings and preliminary report of the first National Conference on Highway Communication for Service and Safety at Denver in August, 1967. Issues raised by a petition to the FCC by the Automobile Manufacturers Association to establish a Highway Emergency Locating Plan (HELP) in the Citizens Radio Band are summarized. Potential advantages that appear to be presented by use of an integrated system of roadsidecable type and the various communication and control functions that such a system might provide are discussed. The concluding portion of the paper relates to the need to define what services are feasible and desired on a long-range basis; the need to outline and establish parameters relating to preferred types of systems; and the need to explore and determine means by which proposed systems can be financed, operated and maintained."
"This is an electronic device used to indicate and record the activity of a number of switch locomotives in a yard area. This device will interrogate, via the existing radio on board each locomotive, information as to the power status of the locomotive. This information is then automatically transmitted back to the Base Station where it is indicated by a set of colored lamps, recorded on a strip chart recorder and the total time the locomotive is in motion is recorded on a lapsed time clock. The accumulated records from this device can then be used to determine the best utilization of the switching locomotives and their crews."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"In setting the stage for the papers which follow, there is discussion in this paper of some problems of terminology concerning multiple-access, on-line, interactive man-computer systems. It presents three viewpoints from which to examine man-computer interaction."
"Tests and analysis to determine the best display- selection techniques for a computer-aided text-manipulation system reveal that the choice does not hinge on the inherent differences in target-selection speed and accuracy between the different selection devices. Of more importance are such factors as the mix of other operations required of the select-operation hand, the ease of getting the hand to and gaining control of a given selection device, or the fatique effects of its associated operating posture."
"The desire for direct interaction between man and machine has led to the study of computer interpretation of free-hand motions of a stylus and the ``real-time'' responses to these motions. An operating environment is discussed, utilizing elements of pictorial and verbal languages."
"In many instances, computer graphics can provide a powerful, rapid man-machine interface by proper application of simple pattern recognition techniques. The techniques briefly discussed are those used to classify real-time sequences of x, y coordinates such as occur with several graphical input devices, including the RAND tablet."
"Many automated data-handling systems still require the handprinting of entries on special forms as an initial step. This investigation sought and evaluated methods for bypassing handprinting in the manual entry of data into computers. Three laboratory experiments were performed to obtain data on human performance rates in various input modes, including writing, printing, marking, and keying with both print and scope feedback. It is estimated that conversion to new input methods might initially slow down the input rate of analysts who formerly handprinted their entries but that practice would be likely to restore former speeds."
"This is the first known study comparing the performance of programmers under controlled conditions for a standard task. An experiment was conducted to compare the performance of programmers working under conditions of on-line and off-line access to the computer. Two groups of six programmers each, comprising a total sample of 12 subjects, coded and debugged two types of programs under on-line and off-line conditions in accordance with a Latin-Square experimental design. The on-line condition was the normal mode of operation for the System Development Corporation Time-Sharing System; the off-line condition was simulated using a two-hour turnaround time."
"The preceding paper by Grant and Sackman, ``An Exploratory Investigation of Programmer Performance Under On-Line and Off-Line Conditions'' is discussed critically. Primary emphasis is on this paper's failure to consider the meaning of the numbers obtained. An understanding of the nature of an on-line system is necessary for proper interpretation of the observed results for debugging time, and the results for computer time are critically dependent on the idiosyncracies of the system on which the work was done. Lack of attention to these matters cannot be compensated for by any amount of statistical analysis. Furthermore, many of the conclusions drawn and suggestions made are too vague to be useful."
"This paper gives an overview of the problems involved in the construction of a computer-based question-answering system designed to interact with the user in English. The system is viewed as containing five distinct parts: a parser, a semantic interpreter, an information storer, an information retriever, and an English output generator. There is a need for extensive interaction among these subsytems, and between the subsytems and the user. Examples are given of the type of processing done by each subsystem, and the nature of the possible interactions. The syntactic analysis described is based on a Chomsky type of transformational grammar. The semantic store is characterized by a form of the predicate calculus, with additional algorithms for computation, and structures designed for fast access to relevant data."
"Presents a biographical entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication. "
"Summary form only given, as follows. The IEEE Transactions on Human Factors in Electronics are published to promote the dissemination of concepts, methods of experiment, results, and applications to design pertaining to man-machine systems. This includes such areas as Continuous manual control of vehicles and industrial processes; basic motor skills Man-computer decision making; computer displays and input techniques; user-oriented languages; computer-aided instruction (CAI) Communication devices and techniques in normal and unusual environments; applied sensory research; signal detection and pattern recognition System simulation and design; training of operators; operator performance in vigilance and monitoring tasks; maintenance and reliability techniques Large-scale man-machine systems; consumer preference evaluation techniques; accident prevention and safety. Acceptable papers may range from mathematical modeling and computer simulation, through laboratory experimentation to system design and field evaluation. Papers describing successful application of conventional theory and techniques in conventional problem areas are not ordinarily acceptable. Papers previously published in journals of wide public circulation are not acceptable. First priority will be given to papers in areas of current interest which contribute original ideas soundly presented. Tutorial or review papers in such areas are also welcome. Each paper is normally submitted to three referees, either members of the editorial board or others, who, in the opinion of the editor, are recognized experts in fields appropriate to the particular paper. A referee is at liberty to disqualify himself and suggest another whom he considers more suitable. Short communications are encouraged. These may be abbreviated papers, relevant comments on other papers published in these TRANSACTIONS, authors' rebuttals to same, or letters to the editor. Reviews of appropriate new books are also solicited."
"Lists the institutions that support this publication."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Development of computer-assisted instruction (CAI) at the IBM Research Center, the Decision Sciences Laboratory of Hanscom Air Force Base, the Systems Development Corporation, the University of Illinois, and Bolt Beranek and Newman is reviewed. This review covers the period 1958-1961."
"The Plato system is discussed. Current research activities are described, including research in teaching methods. New content areas and future developments are pointed out."
"This paper examines the training problems generated by computer-based information systems, and it describes the role of the computer in solving these training problems. The design and development of a model for a computer-based instructional sub- system for a military information system is outlined."
"Three computer-based economic games for sixth- grade pupils are described. From the game models, six kinds of routines, or strategies, are analyzed to demonstrate the advantages of using electronic computers in complex instructional games."
"A computer program is described which attempts to compile written text into teaching machine programs. A discussion of the nature of the output is included. Several strategies are outlined."
"Two types of instructional interactions between a computer system and a student are in current use. In one type, the computer is assigned the dominant role in controlling the interaction. In the other, the student is given considerable freedom to manipulate the computer system throughout the interaction. Instructional systems exemplifying both types of interactions are described."
"The paper describes how an effective instructional subsystem involves a game-like interaction between student and teaching machine in the context of a variety of skills. A control model is used to predict the behavior of subjects in using specific skills."
"The curriculum outline, i.e., the type of computer exercises and programs used in a course which teaches computer- assisted instruction programmers, is discussed. The objectives of the course as well as composition and performance of one class are described."
"Several brief studies were conducted to assess the effects of a wide range of acceleration environments, varying from zero gravity to high sustained accelerations, on pilot performance and dynamic response. The results indicated that the control performance decrements observed at high sustained accelerations were attributable to decreased pilot gains and corresponding reductions in open-loop system crossover frequency. Limited results for extreme vibratory accelerations suggested that performance deterioration was associated with a reduction in pilot lead equalization (and a corresponding reduction in open-loop crossover). Under short-term weightless conditions, performance in a simulated control task was appreciably poorer than under comparable 1 g conditions for one of two sets of simulated vehicle dynamics investigated. The reason was attributed primarily to increased pilot excitation of the vehicle's lightly damped short-period mode. Soviet data, available from Voskhod flights, indicated that cosmonauts did not perform as well in a simulated control system as during ground training sessions."
"An experimental program to measure pilot describing functions in a multiloop control task is described. The basic objective of the program was to provide the data essential for refinement of the multiloop pilot model, which has previously been based on a rational extension of single-loop experimental results. The piloting task was tracking a bank-angle command input. The displayed quantities were bank-error and aircraft yaw rate. The pilot had both aileron and rudder controls. For four of the five configurations, the aircraft was unstable and the pilot had to close a yaw-rate loop. One configuration was stable and could be flown single-loop, bank- angle-to-aileron."
"A compensatory tracking experiment was performed on single and uncoupled two-axis tracking systems to determine the effects of training on model parameters of the human operator as well as one-two-axis differences in tracking performance. The plant dynamics were identical in both the single-axis system and the symmetrical two-axis system. Second-order dynamics consisting of a pure integration and first-order lag were used. Task difficulty was varied by changing the magnitude of the lag time constant and the frequency bandwidth of the input disturbance. Linear second- order describing functions, obtained by a model matching technique, were used to model the operator's performance."
"A study of sine-wave tracking is reported which illustrates the extent to which the predictability of the input and of the control device dynamics can be utilized with extended practice. Analysis of the error power spectra establishes the presence of a stable source of noise power in the operator's output that has implications for deriving models of manual tracking performance."
"Experiments are performed to test the hypothesis of intermittency on the hand movement control system, especially the role of inertia in muscle tone level on the sampling frequency. Results indicate positive adaptation of sampling to these variables."
"This paper describes a study of radar designation performance in a simulated high speed, low altitude aircraft. Hypotheses were derived by means of closed-loop analyses for combinations of aircraft velocity, antenna scan rate, continuous versus discrete cursor generation, and cursor stabilization at aircraft velocity versus nonstabilized cursor. The results of the study showed that best performance was attained using a continuous cursor at high scan rates. Cursor stabilization improved performance only with the discrete cursor. Indications were that the human performed as a linear operator in this control situation."
"The Navy has given extensive support to the development of several different integrated display concepts for nuclear submarines. This paper describes a research program through which comparative, empirical analysis of these concepts was accomplished. The displays evaluated can be classed in two general categories—symbolic and pictorial. The pictorial contact-analog format was tested with symbolic and with pictorial or perspective quickened tracking techniques. The symbolic depth-azimuth format was tested with symbolic quickened tracking and with pictorial presentation of a predictor tracking device."
"This paper is concerned with the evolution and evaluation of an integrated electronic display for V/STOL flight. Such design considerations as vehicle dynamics, handling qualities, and mission requirements are discussed. Data are presented on the performance improvements obtained with a representative display when compared with conventional instruments in two simulated tasks."
"The purpose of this communication is to describe some results of a study of manual control for vertical take-off and landing (VTOL) IFR operations. The study involved simulated flight on Honeywell's hybrid computer facility. The study was designed to determine if state-of-the-art display technology could provide acceptable display systems for VTOL operations. The flexibility of hybrid computer simulation provides the cockpit designer with a method by which he can study many combinations of display formats and manual control modes. Workload measuring techniques were used to augment the flight performance criteria to evaluate study results."
"Presents a biographical entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication. "
"Summary form only given, as follows. The IEEE Transactions on Human Factors in Electronics are published to promote the dissemination of concepts, methods of experiment, results, and applications to design pertaining to man-machine systems. This includes such areas as Continuous manual control of vehicles and industrial processes; basic motor skills Man-computer decision making; computer displays and input techniques; user-oriented languages; computer-aided instruction (CAI) Communication devices and techniques in normal and unusual environments; applied sensory research; signal detection and pattern recognition System simulation and design; training of operators; operator performance in vigilance and monitoring tasks; maintenance and reliability techniques Large-scale man-machine systems; consumer preference evaluation techniques; accident prevention and safety. Acceptable papers may range from mathematical modeling and computer simulation, through laboratory experimentation to system design and field evaluation. Papers describing successful application of conventional theory and techniques in conventional problem areas are not ordinarily acceptable. Papers previously published in journals of wide public circulation are not acceptable. First priority will be given to papers in areas of current interest which contribute original ideas soundly presented. Tutorial or review papers in such areas are also welcome. Each paper is normally submitted to three referees, either members of the editorial board or others, who, in the opinion of the editor, are recognized experts in fields appropriate to the particular paper. A referee is at liberty to disqualify himself and suggest another whom he considers more suitable. Short communications are encouraged. These may be abbreviated papers, relevant comments on other papers published in these TRANSACTIONS, authors' rebuttals to same, or letters to the editor. Reviews of appropriate new books are also solicited."
"Lists the institutions that support this publication."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"The development of a speech display system for the blind built around the TX-0 and PDP-1 computers at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology is described. The system, dubbed ``SPANC,'' was designed to permit the application of a variety of sound compression techniques to be used. Spelled-speech alphabets and displays were developed. An investigation of the letter sounds was carried out for the purpose of revealing the positions where cuts could be made so as to achieve high reading rates yet retain smooth coalescence. Identification of the positions of these cuts could be made with gross features of the acoustic waveform. Cuts of more than 50-ms duration could be made in the region of the articulatory transitions for the consonants, and very acceptable representations of the letter sounds could be obtained by preserving this region for the vowels. Finally, the overlapping of letter utterances as a compression technique was accomplished with subjects experiencing very little difficulty for overlaps corresponding to reading rates of 90 and 120 words per minute."
"A general structure for the quantitative modeling of human operator behavior is discussed. The primary features of this structure are 1) the mathematical description of the updating of operator information state by an internal model of the environment, and 2) the assumption of optimal behavior on the basis of current state of information."
"The investigation described in this paper was aimed at obtaining information about the way in which the human being controls an automobile at high speed on a winding road. A dynamic systems approach was taken, and three different classes of models were postulated. The optimal models in these classes were then obtained for data taken from three subjects in a driving simulation which projected a large moving roadway image."
"The results of a current study of multi-variable manual control systems are presented. The objectives of this study are to investigate the human controller's behavior in multivariable control situations and to develop models of the controller which take into account both the monitoring and the control functions that he typically performs in such systems."
"Human tracking performance in a two-axis system with cross-coupling was evaluated by modeling the human operator with an asymmetric lattice network. A spectral analysis technique was developed to precisely identify each element of the network. Approximate identification is possible by using a less complex model matching technique."
"A model is presented for the process by which a trained human controller detects, identifies, and adapts to changes in the gain and polarity of a compensatory velocity control system. The results of some experiments designed to test the model against actual human behavior are described. The features of the model which are explicitly tested are: 1) A detection process in which contemporary signal detection theory is applied to a variable which represents the difference between observed and expected system response to control movements; and 2) An identification process in which the human controller chooses that member of an ensemble of mental models of the controlled process which best accounts for the observed system behavior."
"Muscle action potential and hand switch disjunctive reaction times of three male subjects to visual, auditory, and combined visual-auditory display were observed. Muscle action potential responses were found to be considerably faster than hand switch responses. Within each response mode, reaction times with the combined display were faster than visual display reaction times."
"A rotary telephone dial and a device consisting of ten thumbwheel switches in a single array were compared in terms of user speed, accuracy, and preference. Where a completely different telephone number was used during each trail, the thumbwheel device took 20 to 60 percent longer than the rotary dial and was disliked by nine out of ten subjects. In contrast, where the successive trials involved telephone numbers with the same prefix, the thumbwheel device took 40 to 60 percent less time than the rotary dial and was preferred by eight out of ten subjects. Error rates were low and the same on both devices."
"During the past several years, an analytical theory of manual control of vehicles has been in development and has emerged as a useful engineering tool for the explanation of past test results and prediction of new phenomena. An essential feature of this theory is the use of quasi-linear analytical models for the human pilot wherein the models' form and parameters are adapted to the task variables involved in the particular pilot-vehicle situation."
"There is a definite need in man-machine system research for a display system capable of projecting large images and capable of taking computer signals as inputs. This need has not been met in the past, except by equipment that is prohibitively expensive for most man-machine researchers."
"The voluntary contractions of unassociated muscles are under the control of the pyramidal system and may be subjected to control and training. The nature and exercise of this control and its relation to fixed \"path\" habits in animals has been discussed by Lorens (1965). In essence, Lorenz hypothesizes a set of innate genetically transmitted 'basic movement elements. These elements are linked together to achieve arbitrary complex motions in a manner analogous to the association of subroutines in a large program. The linkage, initially exploratory and tentative, is transformed into a smooth and coordinated overall movement by an adaptive process which rejects redundant and superfluous elements of motion and substitutes compatible elements. A strikingly similar behavior is exhibited by animals in learning a path through a maze; here again hesitant and awkward behavior becomes confident and continuous as superfluous movements are eliminated with increased experience. It is shown that myoelectric control systems can be based on the path habit hypothesis."
"Presents a biographical entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication. "
"In order that human factors scientists may be aware of books of interest to them among the ever-increasing number being published, reviews of several current titles will be included in each issue of this TRANSACTIONS. Comments and suggestions for this department are welcome, and contributed book reviews and recommendations of books for review (please include name, author, and publisher, if possible) are solicited."
"Summary form only given, as follows. The IEEE Transactions on Human Factors in Electronics are published to promote the dissemination of concepts, methods of experiment, results, and applications to design pertaining to man-machine systems. This includes such areas as Continuous manual control of vehicles and industrial processes; basic motor skills Man-computer decision making; computer displays and input techniques; user-oriented languages; computer-aided instruction (CAI) Communication devices and techniques in normal and unusual environments; applied sensory research; signal detection and pattern recognition System simulation and design; training of operators; operator performance in vigilance and monitoring tasks; maintenance and reliability techniques Large-scale man-machine systems; consumer preference evaluation techniques; accident prevention and safety. Acceptable papers may range from mathematical modeling and computer simulation, through laboratory experimentation to system design and field evaluation. Papers describing successful application of conventional theory and techniques in conventional problem areas are not ordinarily acceptable. Papers previously published in journals of wide public circulation are not acceptable. First priority will be given to papers in areas of current interest which contribute original ideas soundly presented. Tutorial or review papers in such areas are also welcome. Each paper is normally submitted to three referees, either members of the editorial board or others, who, in the opinion of the editor, are recognized experts in fields appropriate to the particular paper. A referee is at liberty to disqualify himself and suggest another whom he considers more suitable. Short communications are encouraged. These may be abbreviated papers, relevant comments on other papers published in these TRANSACTIONS, authors' rebuttals to same, or letters to the editor. Reviews of appropriate new books are also solicited."
"Lists the institutions that support this publication."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"The tactile sense is an important modality that can be used to present information to the blind. The experiments reported compared reading efficiencies of the tactile and visual senses. The tactile stimuli were administered with pneumatically operated poke probes or with a stenotype machine operated in reverse."
"Comparisons have been made between human describing functions measured in flight and on the ground using two different types of ground simulation. A T-33 variable-stability airplane was used for the in-flight measurements. The ground tests were conducted in the T-33 airplane on the ground with simulated instrument flight and also on a general-purpose analog computer in conjunction with a contact analog display. For this study, a multiple-degree-of-freedom controlled element was used in a single-loop compensatory tracking task. The input disturbance in each case consisted of the sum of 10 sine waves with a corner frequency of 1.5 radians per second."
"The general safety of landing aircraft aboard carriers is of utmost importance to the Navy. Reduction of the accident rate is best accomplished by a general increase in total system precision. Analysis of the closed-loop man-machine system, as presently configured, located two prime sources of system inaccuracy in the use of the current display. Its deficiencies are 1) insufficient display gain or sensitivity, and 2) the absence of a direct presentation of lead information. A new display was developed to provide optimum guidance information to the pilot in a manner that is compatible with his vehicular control capabilities."
"Secondary (or ``auxiliary,'' or ``subsidiary'') tasks have often been used to load or to stress an operator while he performs a primary manual control task. As discussed in Poulton,[1]the secondary task should measurably stress the operator's parameter being tested, without rendering the primary task behavior meaningless. This problem has given rise to several types of secondary tasks, which fall into two categories. In the first category are secondary tasks that do not involve the same form of manual control activity as the primary task, such as: mental arithmetic, verbal report of warning light detection, verbal repetition of heard number sequences, etc.[2]-[4]In the second category are secondary tasks involving similar psychomotor activity as the primary task, such as: tracking in a second degree-of-freedom, two-handed tracking, monitoring, and extinguishing warning lights, etc.[5]In the latter case, the distinctions between a secondary task and a multiloop control situation are not sharp and depend primarily on the relative emphasis placed on secondary task performance, specified by the procedures or practiced by the operator."
"A simple test for optimality is described. The test is applicable to systems forced by stationary random inputs, e.g., the human operator in some tracking tasks. The test has the advantage that it does not require calculation of the describing function of the system."
"Presents a biographical entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication. "
"This index covers all technical items - papers, correspondence, reviews, etc. - that appeared in this periodical during the year, and items from previous years that were commented upon or corrected in this year. Departments and other items may also be covered if they have been judged to have archival value. The Author Index contains the primary entry for each item, listed under the first author's name. The primary entry includes the coauthors' names, the title of the paper or other item, and its location, specified by the publication abbreviation, year, month, and inclusive pagination. The Subject Index contains entries describing the item under all appropriate subject headings, plus the first author's name, the publication abbreviation, month, and year, and inclusive pages. Note that the item title is found only under the primary entry in the Author Index."
"Summary form only given, as follows. The IEEE Transactions on Human Factors in Electronics are published to promote the dissemination of concepts, methods of experiment, results, and applications to design pertaining to man-machine systems. This includes such areas as Continuous manual control of vehicles and industrial processes; basic motor skills Man-computer decision making; computer displays and input techniques; user-oriented languages; computer-aided instruction (CAI) Communication devices and techniques in normal and unusual environments; applied sensory research; signal detection and pattern recognition System simulation and design; training of operators; operator performance in vigilance and monitoring tasks; maintenance and reliability techniques Large-scale man-machine systems; consumer preference evaluation techniques; accident prevention and safety. Acceptable papers may range from mathematical modeling and computer simulation, through laboratory experimentation to system design and field evaluation. Papers describing successful application of conventional theory and techniques in conventional problem areas are not ordinarily acceptable. Papers previously published in journals of wide public circulation are not acceptable. First priority will be given to papers in areas of current interest which contribute original ideas soundly presented. Tutorial or review papers in such areas are also welcome. Each paper is normally submitted to three referees, either members of the editorial board or others, who, in the opinion of the editor, are recognized experts in fields appropriate to the particular paper. A referee is at liberty to disqualify himself and suggest another whom he considers more suitable. Short communications are encouraged. These may be abbreviated papers, relevant comments on other papers published in these TRANSACTIONS, authors' rebuttals to same, or letters to the editor. Reviews of appropriate new books are also solicited."
"Lists the institutions that support this publication."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"An electronic analog computer is a tool for solving mathematical differential equations. The basis for the use of such a computer in the simulation of many scientific and engineering problems is the possibility of characterizing these situations as formal mathematical systems by using differential equations. In this paper, following a brief description of the computing elements, the applications of analog computers in the study of various linear, nonlinear, and time-varying systems are described with typical illustrative examples from diverse fields of interest. Computer applications in solving partial differential equations are also discussed. Potential capabilities and limitations of this type of computer as an aid in research and analysis are given."
"A new simple SCR voltage regulator circuit which requires fewer components than most existing circuits which are practical is analyzed. The basic circuitry is applicable to other SCR type systems. An analysis of the control circuitry and total system static loop gain function is presented. The analysis shows that this type control circuit is nonlinear. The power section is analyzed and equations are presented which are needed for design. Exact equations for critical inductance are derived, and a solution to over-voltage problems associated with turn-on and line interruption is included."
"A complex linear hydraulic antenna control system which has a digital computer in the control loop is analyzed. The computer's effect on the system stability is analyzed, and it is shown how approximation techniques can be used to determine the computer sampling rate. These results are compared with results obtained by using z-transform analysis."
"One problem area in the automatic manufacturing of tantalum capacitors is the control of direct power for forming. Basic power control consists of providing a two-parameter controller for a dynamic load. Initial load impedance is small in magnitude and resistive in character. As time progresses from the moment of power application, the load resistance increases and the load becomes more capacitive, changing in magnitude with time. This cycle is interrupted randomly by momentary impedance changes due to impurities present in the process."
"In many industrial processes, it is necessary to integrate rate of flow signals to obtain total flow of a fluid for a given period of time. An electronic solid-state instrument that will perform the function of integrating a rate of flow signal has been designed to accept an electronic signal from a rate of flow transmitter and provide an output count that is proportional to the integral or to the integral of the square root of the incoming signal. In this manner, the input signal may be linear or follow a square law which is the case when an orifice meter is used as the primary transmitter. The electronic design eliminates mechanical parts (excluding the counter) providing better accuracies and complete adjustability of the output count rate within the operating limits of the instrument."
"The position control described has been designed to achieve an accuracy of plus or minus 1 part in 4000. The control is part of the positioning mechanism for the read-write heads in a random-access magnetic-drum memory; it can position the heads to any 1 of 200 track locations, on command, in less than 100 milliseconds."
"The amplifier comprises a pair of three-phase 60 Hz, fully controlled rectifiers, back-to-back connected to form a cyclo-convertor. The output voltage may be modulated at any frequency between zero and 50 Hz by means of a low level signal and peak voltages of up to 230 V, and peak currents of up to 30 A can be delivered to a wide variety of active and passive loads."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"This paper describes the construction of an electromechanical servo system designed to compete at high power levels and in industrial environments, with conventional hydraulic systems."
"The theory, analysis, and design of a new precision variable-input-frequency line regulator are presented. Static and dynamic data are presented for a typical system along with transfer functions for individual parts of the system. A new field-effect transistor modulator that makes this new type of system possible because it has no feed-through is presented."
"The power section of a new ac regulator is presented and analyzed. The regulator switches between ac levels with SCRs to obtain regulation. The regulator is well suited for uses such as line regulation at high power levels. The SCRs may be placed in either the primary or secondary of the power transformer. The regulator inherently has high efficiency and relatively low distortion. Equations needed for the power section design are plotted in a normalized manner. A design example is presented to illustrate use of the information presented. Basic circuit concepts are included."
"The well-known performance of the Ramey amplifier can be markedly improved by feeding it with a rectangular wave. In that case, the firing time is directly proportional to the control voltage, resulting in linearity between input and output signals over a widerange."
"A rectangular-wave-exicted Ramey amplifier possesses the important advantages of linearity between input and output signals. These advantages can be utilized in a variety of analog devices for measuring phase angles, real and imaginary sine-wave components, and instantaneous values, as well as for plotting Heyland diagrams."
"To supplement the conventional linear three-mode controls, a group of nonlinear, analog industrial electronic devices has been developed. Descriptions are given of the circuits and the performance of five of these:"
"In previous papers, the authors have described the principle of ``negative'' saturation and its practical applications. The main difference between circuits comprising saturable reactors driven into negative saturation on the one hand, and magnetic amplifiers on the other, is that in the former power current flows during the nonsaturation periods of the core (or cores), whereas in the latter it only flows when the core is saturated. In this paper, ``negative'' saturation is used as a means of obtaining a negative voltage-current characteristic. This characteristic, obtained by means of a suitable antiparallel saturable reactor configuration, resembles that of the tunnel diode, with the fundamental difference that in the latter electrons ``tunnel'' a potential barrier, whereas in the described circuit the negative slope is due to flux-resetting requirements."
"The machine described employs a weighted matrix structure to generate a decision space capable of producing fault detection or process-control signals. The machine is adaptive and it can easily be adapted to test or control a time-varying system or a variety of parent systems. The adaption and operation, in many cases, could be done by a semiskilled operator without knowledge of the theory of operation."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Prof. Robert Minnick has asked to be relieved of the Associate Editorship for Logic and Switching Theory. At Bob's suggestion and the concurrence of the Publications Committee, the Associate Editorship for Logic and Switching Theory has been split into two parts: Switching Theory and Logical Design. I am happy to announce that Warren Semon has agreed to become Associate Editor for Switching Theory, and that Paul Morton, who has been Associate Editor at-large since February 1966, has agreed to assume the duties of Associate Editor for Logical Design. Warren's biography follows and Paul's biography was published in the February 1966 TRANSACTIONS."
"The advent of iterative analog computers has greatly increased the class of problems that can efficiently be simulated with a hybrid system. The iterative analog computer has placed wide bandwidth analog components under the control of high-speed digital logic. This enables one both to increase the sophistication of the control used for the analog components and to acquire statistically significant samples of the process in a reasonable period of time. An iterative analog computer has been used to investigate methods of increasing the efficiency of signal representation systems by combining analog measurements with digital control and storage. A hybrid system has been developed that is capable of adjusting the exponential basis as well as the coefficients of the representation to minimize the integrated squared error between a signal and its representative. Since the efficiency of the representation depends upon the sampling instant chosen for measurement of the coefficients, methods of detecting this instant were investigated. A detection system has been developed that can adaptively adjust its parameters to correspond to the signal that is being processed. The data presented illustrates the dynamic accuracy of the iterative analog computer, the convergence properties of the optimization procedure, and the statistical properties of the detector when noise is present."
"In engineering and scientific problems one of the most commonly used tools is Fourier analysis. With the increasing availability of analog, hybrid, and digital computers, it is useful to examine special techniques applicable to these machines. This paper presents: 1) methods for evaluating the required integrals on either a digital or an analog computer and 2) an analysis which results in guidelines for choosing the sampling interval when the problem is done digitally. Parts of the material presented in this paper can be found in other sources although there are some refinements included here that make the implementation of the theory considerably easier. The theory is valid for any machine, but minor modifications may have to be made in hybrid computer patching or in the digital program to conform with equipment restrictions."
"This paper deals with a mathematical method of finding cross-coupled noise-voltage in digital equipment. A formula is derived which permits, either strictly mathematical or with some approximations, calculation of noise, thus providing a means for a mathematical approach to interconnection design."
"A TANT network is a three-level network composed solely of AND-NOT gates (i.e., NAND gates) having only true (i.e. uncomplemented) inputs. The paper presents an algorithm for finding for any given Boolean function a least-cost (i.e. fewest number of gates) TANT network. The method used is similar to the Quine-McCluskey algorithm for two-level AND/OR networks. Certain functions realizable by input gates or second-level gates are preselected as candidates for possible use in an optimal network. This is analogous to the preselecting of prime implicants in two-level minimization. A network is then obtained by choosing a least-cost subset of the candidates which is adequate for realizing the function. This selection phase is analogous to the use of a prime implicant table in two-level minimization. In TANT minimization, however, an extension to a prime implicant table known as a CC-table must be used. The algorithm permits hand solution of typical four-and five-variable problems. A computer program has been written to handle more complex cases."
"This paper establishes a clear relation between the trivalent propositional calculus of Lukasiewicz and circuits with double switches of three positions. Adequate alphabet, language and semantics are defined in order to accomplish the aforesaid relation. Two circuit configuration properties occur: an axial symmetry, consequence of the duality exhibited by the Lukasiewicz's algebras, and a superposition phenomenon, closely related to the language. Finally, series and parallel Boolean electrical connections appear as a part of Lukasiewicz's infimum and supreme."
"The methods for determining the carry skip distributions in the adders with the minimum carry propagation time and the minimum number of carry skip circuits for a given carry propagation time are presented on the assumption that every adder position is comprised either in one skip at most or in two skips at most. Two types of adders with carry skips and each of them without and with end-around-carry are considered. The first one is a classical type of adder composed of identical one-position adders, the second is a NOR-gate adder containing 6 NOR-gates for one adder position only, and 1 NOR-gate for one position of the carry line only. These numbers of gates in the adder result in its economical advantages and relatively small carry propagation time as compared with many other adders. The presented skip distributions demand a relatively small number of skips and give a significant reduction in the carry propagation time."
"This paper reports results of experiments on models of computational sequences and models of computer systems. The validity of these models is a step in the evolution of methods for prediction of complex computer system performance. A graph model representing computational sequences was implemented and mapped onto a model of computer systems using programmable assignment and sequencing strategies. An approximate procedure for a priori estimation of path length (computation time) through an assigned graph was checked against more conventional simulation. The graph model was also perturbed to probe sensitivity of estimates of operation times, cycle factors, and branching probabilities. Problems arising in numerical weather prediction, X-ray analysis, nuclear modeling, and graph computations were transformed into acyclic directed graphs and have undergone computer analysis. Effectiveness of parallel processing, convergence properties of the successive approximation assignment and sequencing procedure, sensitivity to input parameter variation, the cost in computer time of the graph analysis, and comparison with more conventional SIMSCRIPT simulation are presented. The reduction in time required to obtain an estimate of path length compared to conventional simulation is found to range from a little less than 102 to more than 104. Computational tests indicate that additional factors may be gained without severe loss in validity of the approximation."
"This paper discusses cyclic to acyclic transformations performed on graphs representing computational sequences. Such transformations are critical to the development of models of computations and computer systems for performance prediction. The nature of cycles in computer programs for parallel processors is discussed. Transformations are then developed which replace cyclic graph structures by mean-value equivalent acyclic structures. The acyclic equivalents retain the noncyclic part of the structure in the original graph by evaluating a multiplicative factor associated with the mean time required for each vertex execution in the original graph. Bias introduced in the acyclic approximation is explored."
"In this paper it is shown that it is impossible to realize a causal, linear, time-invariant two-port which integrates an arbitrary modulation on a suppressed carrier input while leaving the carrier unchanged. It is shown further that a realization of a four-port integrator is possible, provided the two inputs to the four-port have the same modulation but are on quadrature carriers. A specific realization of such an integrator, called a vector itegrator, is exhibited and its applications are discussed."
"This paper describes a logical redundancy technique based on failure-erasure circuitry that is capable of automatically masking as many as P-1 individual failures in P identical elements connected in parallel. This technique is contrasted with the standard von Neumann scheme where only (P/2) such failures can be tolerated. In order to prevent the effect of any single failure from propagating, each logical element in the original network need only be duplicated rather than triplicated as in the von Neumann technique. The usefulness of the redundancy technique described is predicated on the existence of circuitry that fails to a NULL state rather than to a ZERO or ONE state. Accordingly, several circuits which exhibit the desired failure mode and that are worthy of further development for reliability applications are discussed."
"A nonvolatile NDRO memory utilizing a new concept is described. The concept is based on the recent discovery of a new electrodynamic phenomena which is related to the Procopiu effect. In its simplest form the memory consists of a ferromagnetic wire with a concentrically wound pickup coil. The memory operates on the principle that an EMF will be induced in a search coil wound over a ferromagnetic wire when the wire carries a pulse or alternating current and is under the influence of a stationary longitudinal magnetic field. The wire is not strained. Under such conditions the search coil produces an output or ``read'' signal whose polarity or phase, relative to the clock input to the ferromagnetic wire, is a function of the prior insertion of a unidirectional current into the wire. The clock or interrogate drive may be unipolar pulses or sinusoidal alternating current. In the first case the pickup coil produces negative or positive pulses, and in the latter case a sinusoidal output of the same frequency as the clock, in or 180° out of phase."
"A result relating the strong connectedness of a product and the nonexistence of a homomorphism between the factors is given."
"A result relating the strong connectedness of a product and the nonexistence of a homomorphism between the factors is given."
"This paper presents a parallel binary NOR-gate adder circuit with carry completion detection. The circuit consists of identical one-position adders. The number of NOR gates in the adder carry line is equal to the number of one-position adders, i.e., half that of any other known solution consisting of one-position adders. The solution is very economical. A one-position adder contains only six NOR gates, and the detection circuit has approximately half a NOR gate for every adder position."
"A procedure is described for minimizing the number of states in an asynchronous sequential function when the restriction exists that the input cannot change while the sequential function is in an unstable state. Furthermore, a procedure is described for minimizing the number of states in a sequential function when the restriction also exists that each output can change at most once during the time required for a transition from one stable state to another."
"A procedure is described for minimizing the number of states in an asynchronous sequential function when the restriction exists that the input cannot change while the sequential function is in an unstable state. Furthermore, a procedure is described for minimizing the number of states in a sequential function when the restriction also exists that each output can change at most once during the time required for a transition from one stable state to another."
"It is shown that a set of diagnostic tests designed for a redundant circuit under the single-fault assumption is not necessarily a valid test set if a fault occurrence is preceded by the occurrence of some ( undetectable) redundant faults. This is an additional reason ( besides economy) for trying to eliminate certain kinds of redundancy from the circuit. However, single-fault analysis may remain valid for some types of redundancy which serve a useful purpose, such as the elimination of logic hazards in two-level circuits."
"It is shown that a set of diagnostic tests designed for a redundant circuit under the single-fault assumption is not necessarily a valid test set if a fault occurrence is preceded by the occurrence of some (undetectable) redundant faults. This is an additional reason (besides economy) for trying to eliminate certain kinds of redundancy from the circuit. However, single-fault analysis may remain valid for some types of redundancy which serve a useful purpose, such as the elimination of logic hazards in two-level circuits."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"A comprehensive listing of the authors, articles and departments included in 1967."
"This index covers all technical items that appeared in this periodical during the year."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"The possibilities of apn oscilloscopic examination of the operation of function generators with two or more input variables are discussed. The principles of axonometric oscillography are reviewed and supplemented by a circuit for revolving and inclining the oscilloscopic displays. These results are illustrated by means of examples of generators of the most common functions with two independent variables. Finally an attempt is made to represent some simple functions of three independent variables by means of axonometric four-dimensional oscillograms."
"The possibilities of an oscilloscopic examination of the operation of function generators with two or more input variables are discussed. The principles of axonometric oscillography are reviewed and supplemented by a circuit for revolving and inclining the oscilloscopic displays. These results are illustrated by means of examples of generators of the most common functions with two independent variables. Finally an attempt is made to represent some simple functions of three independent variables by means of axonometric four-dimensional oscillograms."
"During successive high-speed iterative-analog-computer runs, the parameters a1, a2, . . ., am of a simulated dynamical system are perturbed by mutually orthogonal binary sequences of perturbations Δai = ±Δa. Each parameter perturbation remains constant during a full 1-ms analog-computer run. Simple correlation of the perturbed solution-sample sequences x(tk)+Δx(tk) with each parameter-perturbation sequence simultaneously produces approximations Δx(tk)/Δai to all the system sensitivity coefficients ∂x(t)/∂ai as the sampling time tkis automatically stepped. Note that correlation with binary variables requires no multipliers. The new technique is compared to the conventional method requiring separate sensitivity-equation setups for each sensitivity coefficient, and a simple example is presented."
"IN this paper we will describe an algorithm for the decomposition of UP-DOWN counters. The constituents of the decomposed counters will be UP-DOWN counters of small modulus and small amounts of combinatorial logic. The main advantage accruing from this decomposition technique is that only a small number of building blocks is required to build counters with any modulus. We will begin the discussion by developing analysis techniques for particular interconnections of UP-DOWN counters. Following this, a general technique for the synthesis of an UP-DOWN counter with any modulus will be given. Only binary and ternary UP-DOWN counters and a small amount of combinatorial logic will be required."
"This paper compares the properties of infinitely recurring sequences and terminating sequences generated by arithmetic division with the properties of linear feedback shift registers. The concept of state is defined as equivalent to the remainder or residue in a division process. It is shown that such state graphs have forms identical with those of classes of feedback shift registers. Divisors generating classes of cycles and trees are determined. Sums of such graphs are analyzed. Applications of such arithmetic sequences may be those where feedback shift registers are used. If computers are available, no extra hardware is needed."
"Improved residue expression and new arithmetic algorithms for addition and subtraction are proposed. In the proposed system positive and negative integers of any magnitude can be handled regardless of the particular choice of the set of relatively prime bases. And such problems as difficulties in overflow detection, handling of sign change in subtraction, or complementation of negative numbers do not exist in the proposed system as far as addition and subtraction are concerned. The difficult problem itself of magnitude comparison in the residue system, however, still remains to be attacked. The proposed system assumes existence of an I/O unit, independent of the residue mode computer, for the purpose of the necessary conversions before and after the computation. Basic properties of the proposed arithmetic algorithms are also derived."
"A family of parallel synchronous comparitors and adders are described which can be constructed entirely of either NOR or NAND circuits. An adder is shown combined with registers to form a high speed but inexpensive 20-bit accumulator. The standard accumulator functions of ADD, UNITE, EXTRACT, LEFT SHIFT, and RIGHT SHIFT are obtained at the cost of 7.5 gates per bit and 12 gate delays for stable sum."
"Design principles of a word selection and drive scheme for a 20-ns nondestructive-READ-cycle-time flat-film memory with 150 000 bits storage capacity, are presented and verified by cross-sectional tests. The word lines are matched at one end and driven from the other by a high-speed driver building block compatible with integrated circuit technology which is connected to a decode matrix. Suitable decode matrix line drivers for providing pulses of different width and amplitude for READ operations up to 50 MHz and WRITE operations up to 20 MHz, respectively, are described. Experiments with a cross-sectional setup for 64 outputs prove the feasibility of the system. Its operation in connection with a memory model indicates an access time of 30 ns."
"The fast Fourier transform algorithm, reported by Cooley and Tukey, results in substantial computational savings and permits a considerable amount of parallel computation. By making use of these features, estimates of the spectral components of a time function can be calculated by a special-purpose digital machine while the function is being sampled. In this paper, two digital machine organizations are suggested which use the algorithm for the case of N (the number of samples analyzed) being a power of 2 and the case of N being the product of two integers. The first machine consists of shift registers and arithmetic units organized in stages which perform calculations in parallel. It can be used when N is a power of 2 and can accept signals being sampled at a rate exceeding 500 000 samples per second. The second machine requires fewer shift registers and only one arithmetic unit but cannot operate in a continuous manner. This means that either a dead time between adjacent records of data must be allowed or a time compression unit must be used. In the first case the obtainable sampling rate depends upon the dead time which can be allowed between adjacent records of data. In the second case sampling rates up to 8000 samples per second are feasible. For this analyzer, N is required to be expressible as the product of two integers."
"Equations are developed which accurately describe the characteristic impedance and signal propagation delay for narrow microstrip transmission lines. Differences in signal propagation delay for microstrip, strip line, and coaxial cables are compared as a function of dielectric constant. The characteristic impedance equation is verified through comparison with experimental results for impedance values from 40 to 150 ohms. The sensitivity of characteristic impedance to variations in physical parameters, such as dielectric constant, line width, and board thickness, is presented. Finally the equation is shown to yield exceptionally accurate results when the inherent inaccuracies of the physical measurements are considered."
"A mathematical model for multiple reflections on lossless, distortionless signal transmission lines is developed for step changes in voltage or current at the source. The model is quite general and is valid for a source driving either one or two lines each loaded with an arbitrary number of discontinuities at arbitrary distances. It will give an exact solution for discontinuities and terminations which are purely resistive and allows for resistances of any size, none of which need be alike. Although an exact solution is valid only when the capacitances are negligible, a method is presented which will partially compensate for a capacitively distorted wave if the capacitive-characteristic resistance time constant is reasonably small compared to the transit time of the line. Considerations for digital computer simulation of the mathematical model are discussed and several examples including open backplane wiring comparing actual and computer results are given. The model and simulation are especially useful for lines which are not terminated in the characteristic impedance at the source or load end and also where modification of the model can be made to investigate reactive and nonlinear terminations."
"A parametric display technique for on-line graphical output is presented. This technique is particularly useful for rapid display of continuous ``smooth'' data, through relatively few computer commands. Graphical data to be displayed are composed from primitive segments, each of which corresponds to one computer command that specifies starting and stopping point, final slope, and ``curvature.'' Presented topics include the basic principle of operation, a class of hardware realizations, typical software requirements, and experimental results of a display prototype."
"The introduction of dynamic errors in the solutions of linear differential equations by electronic analog computers has been given considerable attention. The previous work on the subject is reviewed herein and a useful application of these results is illustrated. The presentation of the error data is given in terms of the shift in the characteristic roots of the equation caused by the limited bandwidths of the operational amplifiers. A graphical representation, useful in predicting the bounds on the root shift, is also illustrated. Although the example shown is based on a linear second-order differential equation, it is observed that the method can be extended to higher-order linear characteristic equations."
"The problem of deciding whether or not an arbitrary N-variable switching function is realizable with a single-threshold-element device is known to be convertible to the global minimization of a functional derivable from the given switching function. This functional is shown to consist of a structure of intersecting hyper-planes each of which is related to some threshold function. It is further shown that the functional is a convex function of its arguments so that test synthesis by minimization is a valid procedure. Two such computer-implemented minimization techniques are discussed. Finally, it is shown that this approach cannot be directly extended to threshold-element network synthesis, since there exists no convex functional with a global extremum at a network realization."
"This paper presents a tabular method for synthesizing Boolean functions having four or less variables with multithreshold threshold elements. The method is similar to that used for conventional single-threshold threshold elements. All 224 functions of four variables are divided into 221 equivalence classes by variable complementations and/or permutations and/or function complementation. Each equivalence class is characterized by a subset of its corresponding Rademacher-Walsh coefficients, the size of the subset being determined by the number of thresholds required to realize that equivalence class. An arbitrary Boolean function of four or less variables is synthesized by systematically calculating subsets of its Rademacher-Walsh coefficients until, through simple equivalence operations, the equivalence class of the function is found in a table of the 221 equivalence classes. The table indicates a multithreshold realization of the given function. The table shows that any 4-variable function can be realized with at most five thresholds, or by a network of conventional, or single-threshold, threshold elements with at most three gates in which each gate has the identical weight vector for the four input variables."
"In an early paper [1], McCluskey and Unger counted the number of distinct state assignments for synchronous sequential machines. Their formula, however, does not account for all distinct state assignments when the memory function in a realization is performed by delay elements alone. This note amends their formula by establishing the conditions for its validity and by deriving the appropriate expression under other conditions. An example illustrating the effect of using the McCluskey-Unger formula in a case where it does not apply can be found in a recent paper by Dolotta and McCluskey [2]. In their paper, a procedure is proposed for selecting a state assignment that has an associated economical realization. Their method implicitly restricts the memory units to be delay elements, and some distinct state assignments are not considered. Consequently, a number of realizations are over-looked. A minor modification in the Dolotta-McCluskey algorithm is suggested so that all distinct state assignments are taken into account. In some cases this revised procedure results in a more economical realization than the unmodified one."
"The use of a parallel multiplier for performing high-speed binary division requires that an algorithm be devised that obtains the quotient by means of multiplications and additions. Furthermore, its hardware implementation must be as simple and as fast as possible. A suitable algorithm, which applies to a first approximation to the reciprocal of the divisor, has already been proposed[1]. A similar algorithm is presented in this paper. The comparison between the two methods for equal numbers of multiplications shows that the latter is more accurate. Conversely, a given accuracy can often be obtained with a higher speed. The generation of a piecewise-linear initial approximation is also discussed."
"The use of a parallel multiplier for performing high-speed binary division requires that an algorithm be devised that obtains the quotient by means of multiplications and additions. Furthermore, its hardware implementation must be as simple and as fast as possible. A suitable algorithm, which applies to a first approximation to the reciprocal of the divisor, has already been proposed[1]. A similar algorithm is presented in this paper. The comparison between the two methods for equal numbers of multiplications shows that the latter is more accurate. Conversely, a given accuracy can often be obtained with a higher speed. The generation of a piecewise-linear initial approximation is also discussed."
"A collection of array-like networks of two-input AND gates is described with particular reference to their use in a parallel adder. These networks have properties which facilitate their incorporation in high-capability monolithic circuits. This leads to the adoption of a radix R and a one-in-R binary code. A decimal system is discussed and compared with a pure binary one. The application of the array networks to other digital tasks is illustrated by the design of routing circuits which enable the adder to subtract, multiply, and divide."
"The terms \"datum processing,\" \"digital datum transmission,\" and \"automaton theory\" may seem awkward to persons who are accustomed to the more common \"data processing,\" \"digital data transmission,\" and \"automata theory\" (this last term being used, for example, in Part A of the Reviews Section of the IEEE Transactions on Electronic Computers). The author discusses if it would not really be more appropriate to use the the singular forms."
"It has been pointed out Prof. S. Muroga that the entry in Table V of the above-named paper (ibid., vol. EC-14, pp. 315-325, June 1965) for the number of nondegenerate threshold functions of 7a rguments is incorrect. The original author notes that he neglected to include the self-dual functions making the correct entry: 8 274 797 440. Also, Prof. J. Sklansky has pointed out a mistake in the AFCRL report, \"Threshold Functions Through n = 7\" (see AF Cambridge Research Labs., Bedford, Mass., AFCRL Rept, 64-925, under Contract AF19(604)-8423 with RCA Labs., October 1964.) On page 1, the formula for Chow parameters is corrected. It should also be noted that the column \"E\" in the latter report does not represent the number of extremals as claimed; more inequalities can in some cases be eliminated by further monotonicity checks."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"A comprehensive listing of the authors, articles and departments included in 1967."
"This index covers all technical items that appeared in this periodical during the year."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"A new kind of machine is proposed, in which the continuous variable is represented as a probability of a pulse occurrence at a certain sampling time. It is shown that threshold gates can be used as simple and inexpensive processors such as adders and multipliers. In fact, for a random-pulse sequence, any Boolean operation among individual pulses will correspond to an algebraic expression among the variables represented by their respective average pulse-rates. So, any logical gate or network performs an algebraic operation. Considering the possible simplicity of these random-pulse processors, large systems can be built to perform parallel analog computation on large amounts of input data. The conventional analog computer has a topological simulation structure that can be readily carried over to the processing of functions of time and of one, two, or perhaps even three space variables. Facility of gating, inherent to any form of pulse-coding, allows the construction of stored-connection parallel analog computers made to process functions of time and two space variables. This paper considers this technique of random-pulse computation and its potential implications. Problems of realization, application examples, and alternate coding schemes are discussed. Speed, accuracy, and uncertainty dispersion are estimated. A brief comparison is made between random-pulse processors and biological neurons."
"A new kind of machine is proposed, in which the continuous variable is represented as a probability of a pulse occurrence at a certain sampling time. It is shown that threshold gates can be used as simple and inexpensive processors such as adders and multipliers. In fact, for a random-pulse sequence, any Boolean operation among individual pulses will correspond to an algebraic expression among the variables represented by their respective average pulse-rates. So, any logical gate or network performs an algebraic operation. Considering the possible simplicity of these random-pulse processors, large systems can be built to perform parallel analog computation on large amounts of input data. The conventional analog computer has a topological simulation structure that can be readily carried over to the processing of functions of time and of one, two, or perhaps even three space variables. Facility of gating, inherent to any form of pulse-coding, allows the construction of stored-connection parallel analog computers made to process functions of time and two space variables. This paper considers this technique of random-pulse computation and its potential implications. Problems of realization, application examples, and alternate coding schemes are discussed. Speed, accuracy, and uncertainty dispersion are estimated. A brief comparison is made between random-pulse processors and biological neutrons."
"Necessary and sufficient conditions are given for the realizability of resistive digital-to-analog conversion ladders for arbitrary codes with fixed positive weights. Realizability and synthesis are shown to hinge on the choice of the input admittance. Simple equations are given for purposes of design and several examples are worked out."
"In this paper, the authors study ``fail-safe'' properties of logical systems, finding the conditions that the basic logical functions of fail-safe logical systems should satisfy and also identifying the allowable failures for the basic logical function circuits. With these results, the authors present a systematic representation of fail-safe logical systems, and an effective method of logical design for fail-safe systems."
"New classes of codes with similar application to Gilbert's code [1] are defined. Weakening of his synchronizing condition gives higher efficiency in the new codes. One class (the F codes) is shown to be the most efficient possible among those codes which use Gilbert's method of achieving synchronization, i.e., the ``position fixing'' method. The other classes use a basically different method of achieving synchronization, and have even higher efficiencies than the F codes. The codes are compared mainly with regard to efficiency, but some idea of the hardware required is also given. The efficiency is compared to that of the bound on Golomb's comma-free codes [2], but evidence is supplied that codes constructed to carry information will never reach this limit."
"This paper describes error-correction adjustment procedures for determining the weight vector of linear pattern classifiers under general pattern distribution. It is mainly aimed at clarifying theoretically the performance of adaptive pattern classifiers. In the case where the loss depends on the distance between a pattern vector and a decision boundary and where the average risk function is unimodal, it is proved that, by the procedures proposed here, the weight vector converges to the optimal one even under nonseparable pattern distributions. The speed and the accuracy of convergence are analyzed, and it is shown that there is an important tradeoff between speed and accuracy of convergence. Dynamical behaviors, when the probability distributions of patterns are changing, are also shown. The theory is generalized and made applicable to the case with general discriminant functions, including piecewise-linear discriminant functions."
"A practical method of determining weights for crossproduct and power terms in the variable inputs to an adaptive threshold element used for statistical pattern classification is derived. The objective is to make it possible to realize general nonlinear decision surfaces, in contrast with the linear (hyperplanar) decision surfaces that can be realized by a threshold element using only first-order terms as inputs. The method is based on nonparametric estimation of a probability density function for each category to be classified so that the Bayes decision rule can be used for classification. The decision surfaces thus obtained have good extrapolating ability (from training patterns to test patterns) even when the number of training patterns is quite small. Implementation of the method, both in the form of computer programs and in the form of polynomial threshold devices, is discussed, and some experimental results are described."
"In a multiprocessor system where a bank of processors share a bank of memories, it becomes necessary to equip a processor with the capability to periodically deny to other processors access to certain memory locations. We call this the memory-protection problem because the processor which has gained access to the data must protect it from others. The type of data contained in the memory locations to be protected dictates the characteristics of the protection techniques which are applicable. This paper outlines the techniques as they apply to four classes of data which are defined for multiprocessor systems. In those cases where special hardware is required, such hardware is described. Furthermore, the programming implications and the error control problems are discussed."
"A mathematical model is developed for diagnosing system failures when symptoms are observable. Optimal policies for searching malfunctions yielding minimum expected diagnostic cost are developed, based on the probabilities of various malfunctions conditioned on the set of observable symptoms, the detection probability of each malfunction, and its associated testing cost. The necessary and sufficient conditions satisfied by such policies are derived. The model can be implemented easily on a computer, reducing costs of diagnosis and training diagnosticians."
"This device, which may be acoustically-coupled to any conventional telephone handset, generates coded tone sequences representing alphanumeric characters. The full ASCII character set, coded with parity, is used, and all 128 symbols available for selection are displayed on the device in a small electronic ``keyboard.'' The transmitted tone sequences correspond to those generated by most Teletype-Dataphone terminals in typical time-sharing systems. In operation, the user dials the remote machine and then inputs messages, character-by-character, by pointing at the selected symbols on the keyboard with a hand-held selection ``pen,'' in a hunt- and-peck fashion. It is assumed that this device would be used to communicate with a machine which has voice answer-back capabilities."
"The plated-wire memory, combined with functional circuit integration, is a strong contender for economic, high-speed, large-capacity memory systems. Important attributes of the plated-wire memory are high-speed DRO and NDRO capability, low digit WRITE current, high output sense signal and low word-to-digit line crosspoint capacitance. Design and operational results for a 1024-word by 80-bit store model are reported in detail. Utilizing a transformerless diode matrix for high-speed word selection, an access time of 75 ns and a READ-WRITE cycle time of 150 ns have been realized."
"This paper describes a READ-ONLY memory utilizing the mutual coupling of two solenoids for information storage. The properties of the proposed memory element and the batch-fabricated memory array are discussed. Experimental results on a 256-word, 36-bit-per-word memory stack operating at memory cycle frequency varying up to 10 MHz are reported. A proposed full-size 256-word, 288-bit-per-word, READ-ONLY memory is evaluated together with cost analysis to demonstrate its economic practicability."
"Four somewhat different methods are presented. Method I is an interpolative method, suitable for many all-digital simulations. Method II is an extrapolative method, suitable for hybrid analog-digital simulations and cases involving closed-loop systems with nonlinearities. Method I calculates values of the output vector y and state vector q at t = nT, using values of the input vector, x, at times t = nT and (n-1) T. Method II is quite similar, except that the calculations use values of the input at t=(n-1)T and (n-2)T, so that these samples may be received from an external signal source (e.g., an A/D converter) and used to calculate output samples at t = nT. Both methods use straight-line approximations for the input signals between sample instants. Method I uses closed linear interpolation analogous to a nonrealizable first-order hold. Method II uses open linear extrapolation analogous to a realizable first-order hold. Methods III and IV are preferable for simulating systems with step (discontinuous) inputs."
"One of the most useful binary linear sequential machines is the maximal-length linear sequence generator. These are sometimes known as pseudo-noise generators because of certain statistical characteristics of their output. One of the more tedious problems in the application of -these generators has long been the calculation of the time displacement of the vectors constituting the output bit stream. In the past, this has been accomplished by programming a computer to simulate the generator and counting steps to the wanted output vector. We show in this paper a much simpler solution to the problem which can be accomplished by means of simple hand calculations."
"One of the most useful binary linear sequential machines is the maximal length linear sequence generator. These are sometimes known as pseudo-noise generators because of certain statistical characteristics of their output. One of the more tedious problems in the applicaton of these generators has long been the calculation of the time displacement of the vectors constituting the output bit stream. In the past, this has been accomaplished by programming a computer to simulate the generator and counting steps to the wanted output vector. We show in this paper a much simpler solution to the problem which can be accomplished by means of simple hand calculations."
"The problem of minimal multilevel synthesis of symmetric switching functions with threshold logic elements is studied. A weight matrix representation of a threshold logic network is given. A number of theorems are presented which give necessary and sufficient conditions for minimal synthesis of symmetric functions with a maximum of eight positive transitions. In each case the minimal network is specified. An example has been worked out."
"This paper is intended to improve Huffman's results on universal encoding of asynchronous sequential networks. The method employed here consists of assigning to each row of the flow table a single vertex on the corresponding hypercube. The remaining vertices are used for the transitions between stable states. Such a vertex can be used for different transitions if they correspond to distinct input states."
"This paper is intended to improve Huffman's results on universal encoding of asynchronous sequential networks. The method employed here consists of assigning to each row of the flow table a single vertex on the corresponding hypercube. The remaining vertices are used for the transitions between stable states. Such a vertex can be used for different transitions if they correspond to distinct input states. In order to verify that an assignment is universal, we have to generate all possible structures of columns (all partitions of the set of vertices assigned to the rows). Then, we have to verify that the chosen assignment is compatible with all these partitions. An assignment will be compatible with the structure of a column if 1) the elements of a block are connected by transient sequences of adjacent values of the internal variable; 2) the transient sequences of two distinct blocks have no common element. Interesting solutions that cannot be further improved are found for 7- and 8-row flow tables. For 12-row flow tables the use of a computer is indispensable. A solution of 5 components of the internal variable is proposed."
"A simple waveform generator for display systems has been designed on the basis of homogeneous coordinate mathematics. This generator will draw points, lines, and general conic sections. The fundamental waveform used is the parabola. Circles, ellipses, and hyperbolas are merely perspective transformations of the basic parabola, which is represented by the parametric vector t= [t2, t, 1]. The design of the homogeneous conic generator is based upon the assumption that a multiplying digital-to-analog decoder can be built economically. The decoder produces an output voltage proportional to the product of a ten-bit digital number and a positive reference level; it must maintain 0.1 percent accuracy up to about 100 kHz. In its simplest form the generator would contain 11 decoders. Allowing subpicture scaling and centering requires 14; adding cubics requires 18; and the most complicated system, with three-dimensional cubics with a final perspective transformation as well as the two-dimensional transformation, requires 34 decoders."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"A comprehensive listing of the authors, articles and departments included in 1967."
"This index covers all technical items that appeared in this periodical during the year."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"The purpose of this paper is to derive the optimum word length for the simultaneous digital transmission of a number of continuous signals in real time, through a single communication channel. The transmission introduces sampling and quantization errors; the relation between the fineness of the quantization and the sampling rate, as a function of word length, for a given capacity of the channel, is investigated. Individual word length for signals having different amplitude distribution and unequal expected frequency is also derived."
"The purpose of this paper is to derive the optimum word length for the simultaneous digital transmission of a number of continuous signals in real time, through a single communication channel. The transmission introduces sampling and quantization errors; the relation between the fineness of the quantization and the sampling rate, as a function of word length, for a given capacity of the channel, is investigated. Individual word length for signals having different amplitude distribution and unequal expected frequency is also derived. It is assumed that the functions to be transmitted have known statistical properties. An example is worked out in detail for the case of normal distribution of amplitudes of the transmitted signals. The investigation is carried out for the case when a zero-order hold circuit is used for the reconstruction of the signals, and the results are compared with the case of an optimum linear reconstruction circuit."
"Error analysis in the computer simulation of dynamic systems is fundamentally a variational problem. The computing errors are small variations of the computed solutions with respect to the exact solution of the differential equations being integrated. It is not surprising, therefore, that many of the mathematical tools used to perform error analysis in the computer simulation of dynamic systems are similar to those used in the variational or perturbational analysis of those systems themselves. Fundamental papers in this direction have been published previously [8], [9], [13]. The present paper, however derives the error-propagation equations in a more basic form, which makes it easier to apply such variational mathematical tools as Liapunoff's second method to analyze error stability, and Pontryagin's maximum principle to study ``worst-case'' errors in computation."
"A system of IBM 7090 Data Processing System computer programs was developed for the purpose of normal and/or fault simulation of the Saturn computer. This paper will describe the design of the simulator and cite several applications in the development of the Saturn computer. The architecture, plus several important characteristics of the simulator, are presented. These include the Design Automation input interface, the logic selection procedure, failure injection, the compilation procedure, logical simulation and functional simulation. The ability to simulate up to 4000 Saturn instructions in either normal and/or fault environments (up to 33 faults per IBM 7090 run) will be demonstrated. Simulation of single, multiple, solid or intermittent faults, plus an automated statistical analysis of intermittent fault simulation results, will be presented. The IBM 7090 execution time of a compiled logic simulator can be prohibitive. To minimize running time several programming techniques were utilized, including logic block ordering (to allow single pass simulation), parallel fault simulation, stimulus bypassing, and functional simulation. These techniques are described. Several special forms of simulator output were developed. The use of this output and the applications of the simulator are presented, including design verfication, test program evaluation, generation of a test point catalog, disagreement detector network evaluation, disagreement detector placement, intermittent failure analysis."
"A model is presented for evaluating the electrical loss (assuming the head medium is not infinitely permeable) and loading effect of the readback process in magnetic recording. The technique is based on the fact that the readback process can be approximated as linear and that the read head is a linear frequency-variant device. After approximating the open-circuit readback signal by a Fourier series, the readback signal with loading and electrical loss is the summation of the responses produced by the harmonic components. Examples are given to evaluate the electrical loss and loading effect on the readback signal. Simulation results agree well with experimental results."
"This paper presents an approach to the problem of assigning binary input codes so that the combinatorial circuits necessary to realize the given output functions may be minimized. The approach is based on binary partitions and binary set systems, which provide a natural language for dealing with the problem. First, a lower bound is established for the realization of each output function, with the assumption that the function will not be realized directly. Then, the output partitions determined by the output functions are found and those output partitions that can be used together in a valid assignment are established. This provides a number of assignment schemes which, in turn, can be evaluated in terms of a lower bound for the realization cost. For the scheme with the smallest lower bound, the actual realization cost is established. This provides a measure by which a number of schemes can be eliminated, since it is necessary to consider only those schemes having a lower bound smaller than the least actual cost already obtained. Using set systems, the method is extended to include output functions containing don't cares. It is also shown how the method can be applied to the minimization of combinatorial circuits in sequential machines."
"There are several different usable combinations of the inputs of an RST flip-flop. It is shown how all of the possible combinations can be displayed simultaneously on three Karnaugh maps, facilitating the choice of the simplest input equations. The application equation for flip-flop Q characterized by a sequential problem is plotted on a map designated Qn+1. Additional maps, (Qn+1)* and (Qn+1)' are derived from Qn+1. Cells corresponding to prime implicants not containing the variable Q are identified on these maps, and are used to enter the properly designated arbitrary elements on the R, S, and T maps of flip-flop Q. The method is based on the following theorem: ``If Qn+1 = (g1Q + g2Q')n, and if F is the set of all prime implicants that do not contain the literals Q or Q', then the Boolean function g1g2 is the union of all the prime implicants of Qn+1 that belong to the set F.'' A simple illustrative example is included."
"Given two implicants of a Boolean function, we can, by performing their consensus, find a third implicant. This operation has been used for finding the prime implicants of a Boolean function. In this paper, the consensus is extended from two to any number of terms. A property of these generalized consensus relations leads to a systematic way of finding them. It is shown that any prime implicant of a Boolean function is a generalized consensus; therefore the algorithm for the determination of the consensus relations can be used for finding the prime implicants. This new method is simpler than the usual process of iterative consensus. It is also shown in this paper that consensus theory can be used for finding the minimal sums of a Boolean function. The methods are applicable for any Boolean function, with or without don't care conditions, with a single or a multiple output."
"A modification of Akers' method of realizing Boolean functions with three-input majority gates is presented. One of the fundamental parts in Akers' procedure is the construction of a logically passive self-dual, or LPSD. This paper presents a more precise construction of the LPSD. In addition, a procedure is described to adapt the method to minimization of the number of delay elements. A delay element table is introduced to aid in the selection of majority gates. A second factor in reducing delay elements is limiting the number of levels of logic in the realization. Examples illustrate the substantial reduction in delay elements when these methods are employed."
"A computer-programmable algorithm is presented for the design of general feed-forward nets of threshold logic gates, which realize arbitrary digital switching functions. The algorithm is proved to be convergent for all switching functions. A simplified version of the algorithm is presented for the case of symmetric switching functions. Both algorithms are proved minimal for single-gate nets; a necessary condition is given for the symmetric algorithm to produce minimal two-gate nets when they exist; and two-gate minimality is also demonstrated for the general algorithm, for a certain class of two-gate switching functions. However, general minimality is not proved. The case of partially defined switching functions is treated. Minor alterations in the general algorithm allow its use as an adaptive pattern recognition procedure, where the input variables represent real numbers rather than Boolean variables. Experimental restults are presented for both digital switching-function realization and analog pattern recognition."
"A sequential machine for which any input sequence of a specified length is a distinguishing sequence is said to be definitely diagnosable. A method is developed to obtain for any arbitrary sequential machine a corresponding machine which contains the original one and which is definitely diagnosable. Similarly, these techniques are applied to embed machines which are not information lossless of finite order, or which do not have the finite-memory property, into machines which contain either of these properties. Simple and systematic techniques are presented for the construction, and the determination of the length, of the distinguishing sequences of these machines. Efficient fault-detection experiments are developed for machines possessing certain special distinguishing sequences. A procedure is proposed for the design of sequential machines such that they will possess these special sequences, and for which short fault-detection experiments can be constructed."
"A system design is given for a computer capable of direct execution of FORTRAN language source statements. The allowed types of statements are the FORTRAN DO, GO TO, computed GO TO, Arithmetic, READ, PRINT, arithmetic IF, CONTINUE, PAUSE, DIMENSION and END statements. Up to two subscripts are allowed for variables and no FORMAT statement is needed. The programmer's source program is converted to a slightly modified form while being loaded and placed in a Program Area in lower memory. His original variable names and statement numbers are retained in a Symbol Table in upper memory, which also serves as the data storage area. During execution of the program each FORTRAN statement is read and interpreted at basic circuit speeds since the machine is a hardware interpreter for these statements. The machine corresponds therefore to a ``one-pass, load-and-go'' compiler except, of course, that there is no translation to a different machine language. It is estimated that the control circuitry for this machine will require on the order of 10,000 diodes and 100 flip-flops. This does not include arithmetic circuitry."
"This paper discusses certain concepts and sample results in the techniques of system effectiveness analysis with particular attention to availability. It turns out that the contemporary concept of system effectiveness can be usefully viewed as a generalization of prior concepts relating to system availability. Central to the paper's approach is a presentation of the need for redefinition of system availability. While on the one hand some 18 definitions are available in the literature, this latter concept is not broad enough for complex systems; the implied binary situation of a system being either UP or DOWN is not an accurate enough model for such systems. System effectiveness, which has been evolved to replace availability, arises from attempts to unify treatment of the statistics of system state behavior and transition behavior, of the performance capability associated with these states and transitions, and of the interaction of the performance statistics within the conditions of the problem. The analytic techniques developed are of particular power when dealing with redundant and modular systems. A comparative effectiveness evaluation of 10 alternative computer system designs, all having the same basic performance, is exhibited; this analysis was performed with respect to a given sample functional requirement."
"A new method for shift register design based on a tunnel diode-charge storage diode combination is described. The tunnel diode acts as the permanent store with the charge storage diode as the temporary store to hold information while the main store is cleared. The circuit has very good tolerances and high rejection of extraneous pickup. Clock frequencies in excess of 100 MHz have been used with 1012 shifts successfully executed without a failure."
"Two-dimensional arrays of logic elements of the general type attributed to parallel computing structures [1]-[9] can be mechanized by means of charge image storage techniques. This note describes the principles of the mechanization and presents some rudimentary examples of parallel logic."
"A step in state minimization requires the selection of a minimal class of compatible sets of internal states which covers the given machine and is closed. Grasselli and Luccio have presented a solution of this problem which has certain drawbacks. This paper presents a simpler and shorter algorithm, guaranteed to yield all solutions, based upon their work and that of Paull and Unger."
"A new reduction technique conceived by Gimpel can be applied to any covering problem with costs that has a column with exactly two 1's, in rows of equal cost. Gimpel's plurality restriction is unnecessary. The technique is illustrated and proved."
"Field-recorded data are often most conveniently recorded on magnetic tapes without interblock gaps. Gapless tapes cannot be read by certain types of computers. A simple modification to a KDF 9 computer enables it to transcribe from gapless to conventional format as a time-shared monitor operation. The counter which increases peripheral transfer addresses and detects the completion of a block is time-shared by all channels on the KDF 9. It was modified so that for any channel which, in requesting a core memory access, indicates that it is engaged in a gapless read\" carries out of the 64's digit of the counter are suppressed, and any change of the 64's digit causes an interrupt to the permanently resident monitor program (Director). Thus, if an input transfer is set up on a channel with initial core memory address an exact multiple of 128, and the channel is made to signal that it is reading gapless tape, the reading will proceed indefinitely, repeatedly cycling over the same 128 word core area, and causing an entry to Director after every 64 words."
"If NOR gate logic circuits must withstand a radiation environment which produces permanent damage in the logic elements, then it could become necessary to increase the radiation tolerance of these logic circuits. NOR gates are sufficient to generate any Boolean function of n variables and their exclusive use can mean that sufficient statistical experience can be accumulated to carry out reliability studies even though only a few computing machines are ever built."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"A comprehensive listing of the authors, articles and departments included in 1967."
"This index covers all technical items that appeared in this periodical during the year."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"This page or pages intentionally left blank."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"This paper discusses the design trade-offs for a parallel bit-organized MOS memory. A memory capacity of 40K bits can be achieved using LSI techniques. Memory storage capacity is expandable in both word length and number of words stored. The physical dimensions of the memory should be considerably smaller than those of a comparable core design. Power consumption per bit should likewise be less than that achievable with cores. A full cycle time of 1 us or less can be achieved. Cost per bit should compare very favorably with that of a core design."
"This paper discusses the design trade-offs for a parallel bit-organized MOS memory. A memory capacity of 40K bits can be achieved using LSI techniques. Memory storage capacity is expandable in both word length and number of words stored. The physical dimensions of the memory should be considerably smaller than those of a comparable core design. Power consumption per bit should likewise be less than that achievable with cores. A full cycle time of 1 us or less can be achieved. Cost per bit should compare very favorably with that of a core design."
"The continued development of Large Scale Integration (LSI) presages the advent of a fourth generation of computers, and is causing an upheaval at all levels of computer technology-both technical and managerial. Today's computers use integrated circuit components containing at most ten gates per component; however, LSI is introducing hundreds of gates per component and will eventually evolve into thousands of gates per component. To the aerospace planner, this technological breakthrough of LSI means tremendous reductions in cost, size, weight, and power consumption of logic components, together with increased speed and reliability. However, for the aerospace planner to successfully implement aerospace computers with LSI, the computer designers and managers must reorient their methodology and goals. A multitude of new design and cost considerations must be carefully scrutinized, and out of this must come the new techniques that will permit effective incorporation of LSI in aerospace computers. Higher speed, a smaller system, greater reliability, and lower cost stem from the physical structure (more gates per component with no increase in component size) of the LSI component. These inherent features of LSI, together with multiprocessor system organization, point to future aerospace computers with capabilities equal to today's best ground base systems."
"A new approach to a computer organization promises very effective utilization of the LSI technology. Functional partitioning of both the data path and control is employed. A dramatic reduction in array pin requirements by a factor of two or more is achieved. Arrays as small as a few dozen gates can be effectively utilized. The total system is exceedingly flexible in both performance and instruction set."
"Two algorithms are presented: one, DALG-II, computes a test to detect a failure in acyclic logic circuits; the other, TEST-DETECT, ascertains all failures detected by a given test. Both are based upon the utilization of a ``calculus of D-cubes'' that provides the means for effectively performing the necessary computations for very large logic circuits. Strategies for combining the two algorithms into an efficient diagnostic test generation procedure are given. APL specifications of the algorithms are given in an Appendix."
"The Automatic Checkout Systems (ACS) were designed and used for the Titan III and Apollo Projects. This article describes the logical design of new approaches to program checkout and the results achieved. These checkout systems are a series of programs written for a large scale commercial computer. When a program for the airborne computer of the inertial guidance system is operated on by the ACS, it performs a symbolic simulation and generates the symbolic equations (A=B+C×D) that are performed by the airborne computer program. The ACS performs many checks for program errors in this process, indicates all areas where program analysis is required, and furnishes the program information required for analysis in optimum form. The equations generated by the ACS are manually checked against the input specification. This check is absolute in nature compared to the conventional method of analyzing the results of numerical simulations. Time consumed on the large scale commercial computer is much less than for numerical simulation."
"The steadily increasing complexity of spaceborne digital systems tends to lower the reliability of these systems that operate in an environment where the cost of failure is extremely high. The reliability of digital systems can be increased by redundancy techniques. The majority of work in redundancy has concentrated on the development of synthesis techniques and initial reliability estimation procedures. Relatively little effort has been spent on the development of procedures for testing redundant systems and estimating their reliability when some components may be failed. This paper describes 1) a procedure for allocating a limited number of test points within a redundant digital system, and 2) a compatible procedure for estimating the probability of successfully completing a mission, using information obtained from the allotted test points."
"This paper is intended to show how the unique features of the Variable Instruction Computer (VIC) make it valuable for applications requiring high reliability. By careful choice of components, use of error-checking circuits, and selected application of redundant hardware, the basic unextended reliability of the VIC is comparable with the state-of-the-art. This is verified by a standard MIL-HDBK-217 type of analysis. The variable instruction technique is briefly described by use of a block diagram. The method for extending reliability by use of variable instructions is explained and an example is given. The concept of algorithm change to achieve controlled graceful degradation is discussed. An analysis of a typical application of this technique is given and extensions of the variable instruction concept to more advanced reliability requirements are discussed."
"The analog-hybrid computer Monte Carlo technique for solving elliptic and parabolic partial differential equations has been implemented on a new hybrid computer capable of taking statistics over 1000 two-or three-dimensional random walks per second. This exceptional computing speed and flexible digital control permit direct plotting of partial differential equation solutions; of perhaps even greater interest is the incorporation of such Monte Carlo routines in real-time analog computer setups in process control applications. In this connection, the Monte Carlo method has been extended to a wider class of problems, and is especially applicable to heat conduction/diffusion problems."
"The structure of the algorithms implementing Quine's method for prime implicant determination is analyzed, and a new class of algorithms-partitioned list algorithms-for Quine's method is derived. Such algorithms are of particular interest for actual computation because they permit 1) avoiding repetitions while generating clauses, 2) representing each clause by only one binary configuration, 3) reducing memory capacity requirements, and 4) applying the basic operations by means of nonexhaustive techniques."
"The correspondence defined below was used to convert Slepian's tabulation of the number of equivalence classes of (m, r) group codes[1] into hitherto unpublished data of relevance to switching theory. Specifically, Table II lists the number of equivalence classes of switching functions of weight m≪ 20 or m≫ 2n-20 in nine or fewer arguments under the group of linear transformations on its argument variables. The correspondence is established by means of an m×n binary matrix, all of whose rows are distinct. The rows of this matrix define m points at which a switching function of n arguments takes on unit value. If the rank of this matrix (over the 2-element field) is r, then its columns generate an r-dimensional subspace of binary m-tuples which, by definition, is the message set of an (m, r) group code."
"A simple, systematic procedure for detecting symmetric ternary switching functions is developed. The detection procedure is essentially based on a derived counting theorem. Other important properties and close bounds on the number of ternary symmetric functions are developed. A design method is given whereby symmetric functions can be readily synthesized with switching networks which are economical, and, in certain instances, minimal in the number of ternary threshold devices required. The greatest lower bound on the number of devices required for a given symmetric function is developed."
"Signal switching networks with transient blocking are defined. The number of 2×2 crossbars necessary to synthesize a signal switching network with transient blocking capable of performing all one-to-one connections of N inputs to N outputs is shown to be at least N log2N-N log2 e+(½) log2 N + log2 2 + 0(1) as N→ ∞. It is shown that this lower bound can never be attained for N>2. An algorithm for building a network using at most 2N log2 N 2×2 crossbars is described. If N is a power of 2, N = 2m, then the algorithm described requires N log2 N-N+1 2×2 crossbars, which is close to the theoretical minimum. Generalizations of this work to networks performing an arbitrary permutation group of connections of inputs to outputs are indicated. Explicit results are obtained in the case of Abelian groups."
"This report describes a new concept of content-addressable memory (CAM) implemented with plated wires and the bit-steering technique. The 5-mil plated wires are insulated with a thin (0.2 to 0.3 mil) coat of polyurethane, and imbedded in a copper plane. A memory array is formed by means of a simple orthogonal arrangement of plated wires and an overlay of copper straps. Because of the low loop impedance (2 to 5 ohms depending on the design but uniform to within ± 5 percent for a given design) formed between an insulated plated wire and the copper plane, a loop current of the order of 30 mA can be generated by pulsing a pair of straps. This current is used to transfer information from one bit position to another bit along the same plated wire. Consequently, logic manipulations can be performed within the memory array. The resolve operation is executed in the array where a binary address tree is stored. The addresses of matched words are obtained via the sieving action of the tree. With a complementary address tree added to this resolve area, the addressed READ/WRITE operations are executed by first searching for the given address and then READ/WRITE on the matched word. The search cycle time of a CAM of 4096 words, 40 bits per word, is estimated to be about 1 to 2 μs, based upon experimental results. The resolve time is about 1.5 μs for any one of the 4096 addresses."
"The application of microprogramming to problem-oriented languages is described in terms of a simulated analog system on a digital computer. Microprogramming facilitates the development of a problem-oriented machine code, which can be simply generated from the problem-oriented source language by simple translation. In the system described a problem defined by differential equations is drawn up in the form of an analog diagram. The diagram is coded into an analog-oriented source language which is converted by translation into the analog machine code. The system also allows the machine assembly code to be freely used with the analog input in coding the supervisory and interrupt facilities that are incorporated in the overall system design."
"In multiprocessor systems it is desirable to look for and allocate storage without extensive data moving. Two techniques for accomplishing this, associative memory techniques and indirect addressing techniques, are described. It is concluded that the two methods are similar in performance, but that indirect addressing is more economical. An indirect addressing method is described in detail and various methods of implementation compared. The memory overhead and the time penalty (in memory accesses) are given as a function of memory size and method of implementation. It is concluded that a computed address table look-up technique should be used and that the block size should be either 256 or 512 words."
"When the maximum principle is applied to optimal control problems, a two-point boundary value problem must by necessity be solved. This paper discusses a solution method for general problems in which the initial and terminal states of the system are given, but in which the time of arrival at the terminal state is unknown. Various difficulties accompanying the conventional methods used in the past are pointed out, and a new method for solving these difficulties is proposed. The hybrid computing system is suitable for carrying out this method, and hybrid computers have been applied to the solution of numerous concrete problems. As a result, it becomes possible to seek a solution completely automatically, and it has been proven that this method is extremely practical."
"This note considers the graphs of linear and affine transformations on modules over Boolean rings. It will be shown that such graphs are similar to those of linear forms on vector spaces over finite fields."
"The minimal number of terms required for representing any switching function as a modulo 2 sums of products is investigated, and an algorithm for obtaining economical realization is described. The main result is the following: every symmetric function of 2m+1 variables has a modulo 2 sum of products realization with at most 3m terms; but there are functions of n variables which require at least 2n/n log2 3 terms for sufficiently large n."
"A method is described for constructing a set of input patterns able to detect every given failure of a combinational network. The result may not be a minimal set of tests, but it is surely a complete test."
"A method is described for constructing a set of input patterns able to detect every given failure of a combinational network. The result may not be a minimal set of tests, but it is surely a complete test. The procedure is designed for large networks with high number of independent inputs. It can deal with networks including any elementary logical gates such as AND, OR, NAND, NOR, and NOT. No limitations on fan-out are considered. The method can treat any class of single or multiple logical failures which can be described by means of a transformation of the logic equations of the network. The conventional description of the failures as one wire stuck at one or stuck at zero is not required. This can be useful in detection of wiring errors in equipment testing. The basis of the procedure is a ``choice technique'' which avoids, in most cases, the two-level expansion of the mapping realized by the network. The procedure is illustrated in detail and two application examples to the detection of a single wire stuck at zero failure and of a wiring error are given."
"The purpose of this paper is to describe the design of an all-digital cellular threshold array that is well adapted to realization by large-scale integrated semiconductor technology. A set of these arrays may be interconnected to realize arbitrary combinational or sequential logic, or may be stacked to form a multilevel adaptive pattern classification machine."
"Real numbers can be represented in a binary computer by the form i-Be where i is the integer part, B the base, and e the exponent. The accuracy of the representation will depend upon the number of bits allocated to the integer part and exponent part as well as what base is chosen. If L(i) and L(e) are the number of bits allocated to the magnitudes of the integer and exponent parts and we define I= 2L(i) and E = 2L(e), the exponent range is given by B±E, the maximum relative representation error is given by B/2I, and the average relative representation error is given by (B-1)/(4I 1n B). The formulas provide quantitative comparison for the effectiveness of alternative formats for real number representations."
"The required buffer size for a random (Poisson) input word rate with constant rate removal in the same order as arrival is considered. The method of computation rests on analytical study. Results are tabulated for a range of values and may be used as a design guide. Applications may be found in both the partitioning of computer stores and in the communications field of data compression."
"In this correspondence it is shown that by applying Gavrilov's test algorithm to any Boolean function numerically represented by its \"constrained designation numbers\", introduced by Ledley, a very suitable program for the automatic determination of the prime implicants and of the prime implicant table can be established."
"In this correspondence it is shown that by applying Gavrilov's test algorithm to any Boolean function numerically represented by its'' constrained designation numbers'', introduced by Ledley, a very suitable program for the automatic determination of the prime implicants and of the prime implicant table can be established."
"Results in the literature on sequential machines prove that it is not possible to determine the minimal form of a machine by external measurements. By changing the concept of external measurement, an ``effective solution'' to this identification problem is given. The solution utilizes an important result in the theory of sequential relations."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"A comprehensive listing of the authors, articles and departments included in 1967."
"This index covers all technical items that appeared in this periodical during the year."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"The equations that govern the behavior of steel under-going reduction are complex differential equations. A method of solving these equations using a hybrid computer is described, and the peculiar problems associated with such a solution are discussed. In the hybrid implementation, differential equations can be solved very fast, and the speed of solution is governed by the number of samples one requires of the trajectory from the analog computer for useful computation in the digital computer. Thus, methods are described whereby the number of samples taken can be reduced and the accuracy of the manipulations performed by the digital computer can still be maintained. The results obtained are both accurate and rapid, and the system has the normal engineering appeal of a purely analog solution."
"The equations that govern the behavior of steel under-going reduction are complex differential equations. A method of solving these equations using a hybrid computer is described, and the peculiar problems associated with such a solution are discussed. In the hybrid implementation, differential equations can be solved very fast, and the speed of solution is governed by the number of samples one requires of the trajectory from the analog computer for useful computation in the digital computer. Thus, methods are described whereby the number of samples taken can be reduced and the accuracy of the manipulations performed by the digital computer can still be maintained. The results obtained are both accurate and rapid, and the system has the normal engineering appeal of a purely analog solution."
"Two circuit models of a semiconductor junction rectifier are presented. For times long compared to the effective minority carrier lifetime, the usual current rectifier concept obtains. For times short compared to the lifetime, a charge rectifier is better able to explain experimental results; reverse recovery is evidence of this. Viewed in this way, semiconductor junctions are suitable for certain types of digital information processing. Voltage gain is limited only by junction breakdown and driver capability but charge (current) gain is inevitably less than one. The amount of charge run-down is shown to depend on the time the information is in the circuit. Scan generators, shift registers, serial memories, and serial converters have been studied as examples of the wide range of applications for which these devices are suitable."
"Closed form expressions have been obtained for the power density spectra of signal waveshapes in use for digital magnetic recording. The ``signal'' is the magnetization versus distance profile imposed on the magnetic medium to encode binary ones and zeros. Two general classes of signals are distinguished in terms of neighboring bit-to-bit correlation. Standard recording methods such as saturation NRZ and phase modulation are considered, as well as techniques requiring bias current, such as sinusoidal frequency-shift modulation. The spectra are compared with frequency response curves for the reading head at several recorded bit densities. The more ideal bandwidth characteristics of the newer phase- and frequency-modulation techniques help to explain their improved performance at high bit densities."
"As digital system speeds increase and their sizes diminish, it becomes increasingly important to understand the mechanism of signal crosstalk (noise) in interconnections between logic elements. The worst case is when two wires run parallel for a long distance. Past literature has been unsuccessful in explaining crosstalk between parallel wires above a ground plane, because it was assumed that only one signal propagation velocity was involved. This paper proves that a signal introduced at one end of a printed wire above a ground plane in the presence of a second parallel (passive) wire must break up into two signals traveling at different velocities. The serious crosstalk implications are examined. The new terms slow crosstalk (SX), fast crosstalk (FX) and differential crosstalk (DX) are defined."
"Data transfers in computing systems with memory hierarchies usually prolong computing time and, consequently, cause degradation of system performance. A method to determine data processing rates and the relative utilization of memories for various system configurations under a variety of program loads is presented. According to this method, a program-independent ultimate data processing rate is derived from characteristics of the processor and the fastest random access memory of the system, and degradation factors are determined by combining statistics of the data flow of actual programs and hardware parameters of the processor and all memories. The statistics of data flow in the memory hierarchy are obtained by analyzing a number of recorded address traces of executed programs. The method presented permits quick evaluation of system performance for arbitrary time periods and for maximum and minimum concurrence of operation of processors and memories."
"The paper describes a proposed microprogrammed interface computer, ``Intergraphic,'' which will link many (initially 13; potentially more than 50) general-purpose graphical terminals to a central processor. Intergraphic will generate new images once only, at high speed (10-MHz incremental plotting rates) on one of several small, electrostatically deflected, precision CRT's. The images will be generated on a 1024 by 1024 grid in incremental and random-point display modes by fast microcode sequences which interpret display lists from the central processor. The centrally generated images will be scan converted to standard television video signals and recorded on a multitrack video disk(s), each track refreshing a low-cost standard television terminal. User feedback will be via raster coordinates, determined by a light-pen (``raster-pen'') and simple counting circuits at each terminal. The paper concentrates on the digital interface structure which is versatile and fast (3-5 ns integrated circuits and 100-ns cycle-time READ-only memory). The description centers on display generation, although the structure is largely general purpose. The proposed operating system is outlined only since it is in an early stage of development. Also, the order-code accompanying data from the central processor is incomplete. However, new orders can be readily interpreted by adding microprograms to the READ-only memory (i.e., ``firmware,'' not hardware extensions); thus, the interface will also be a useful medium for experimentation in graphical structures and communication."
"The two-dimensional ``hidden-line'' problem is the problem of determining, by means of a computer algorithm, which edges or parts of edges of an arbitrary, nonintersecting polygon are visible from a specified vantage point in the plane of the polygon. The problem is an important one in the field of computer graphics, and is encountered, for example, in using a computer to determine the portion of an island's coastline visible from a ship offshore. Some propositions are introduced that facilitate the solution of this problem. A general algorithm for the solution is described, and illustrative examples are given of hidden-line problems solved with a digital computer."
"This paper presents the dynamic programming approach to the design of optimal pattern recognition systems when the costs of feature measurements describing the pattern samples are of considerable importance. A multistage or sequential pattern classifier which requires, on the average, a substantially smaller number of feature measurements than that required by an equally reliable nonsequential classifier is defined and constructed through the method of recursive optimization. Two methods of reducing the dimensionality in computation are presented for the cases where the observed feature measurements are 1) statistically independent, and 2) Markov dependent. Both models, in general, provide a ready solution to the optimal sequential classification problem. A generalization in the design of optimal classifiers capable of selecting a best sequence of feature measurements is also discussed. Computer simulated experiments in character recognition are shown to illustrate the feasibility of this approach."
"Functionally packaged logic can only be effectively utilized if the totality of switching functions that each package is capable of providing is recognized. Theorems concerning, and algorithms operating on, multiple output switching functions (possibly with don't care conditions) in cubical array notation are presented that 1) detect partial symmetry and redundancy sets of input varibles, 2) determine the function generated by a package with some of its inputs tied to logical 1 or 0 or tied together, and 3) rapidly show equivalence between two functions using symmetry information. While manual execution of the algorithms is possible, they are computer oriented. Results from actual computer experimentation show their efficiency."
"A property filter is developed that is suitable for recognizing translation-rotation-dilation classes of two-dimensional images. Invariant outputs corresponding to such classes are obtained by employing two successive sampled spatial harmonic transforms. The required analyses are equivalent to taking inner products of pairs of vectors only one of which is variable in each case. Subsequently, the necessary network may be realized with fixed threshold logic, independent of the character classes to be recognized. The effectiveness of the property filter has been confirmed with printed and handwritten numerals by coupling it to a standard adaptive categorizer of a type assuming linear separability. There is further evidence to show that performance is improved by coupling a categorizer that does not assume linear separability."
"A synthesis procedure is introduced for obtaining multithreshold threshold-element realizations of arbitrary Boolean functions (including functions with don't cares). Through transforms of multithreshold threshold-element realizations, the procedure is also applicable to threshold-element-network realizations of functions. The procedure is useful for hand calculations for functions with a small number of variables, and has been programmed on a computer for functions having up to 11 variables-the number of variables is presently limited by storage allocation. The function to be realized is first completely decomposed about its variables to form a tree. The functions resulting at the tips of the tree branches from the complete decomposition have simple ``value functions'' (which specify a set of multithreshold realizations) that are uniquely determined by the weight chosen for the final variable in the decomposition. After choosing this weight, the given function is systematically reconstructed from the tree by choosing the weight of one variable at a time through the combined use of a theorem that specifies the allowable weights of the new variable and an analysis of the minimum possible number of thresholds required as a result of a given allowable weight. Experimental results of hand and computer calculations show the procedure to be fast in producing realizations with a small number of thresholds and a small sum of weight magnitudes."
"The purpose of this paper is to describe an algorithmic ``solution'' to the assignment problem of synchronous sequential machines. The figure of merit used provides a mathematical evaluation of the reduced dependencies that may exist in the set of logic equations. If desired, the algorithm can assign the input, state, and output symbols of a given machine so as to ``minimize'' the total logic, i.e., reduced dependencies of both the state and output logic on state and input variables are optimized. The method is nonenumerative in the sense that the first assignmnent found is optimal. A restricted version of the algorithm has been programmed for an IBM 7094 computer."
"This paper treats the problem of automatic fault diagnosis for systems with multiple faults. The system is decomposed into n units u1, u2, . . . , un, where a unit is a well-identifiable portion of the system which cannot be further decomposed for the purpose of diagnosis. By means of a given arrangement of testing links (connection assignment) each unit of the system tests a subset of units, and a proper diagnosis can be arrived at for any diagnosable fault pattern. Methods for optimal assignments are given for instantaneous and sequential diagnosis procedures."
"Pseudorandom number generator programs can be modified by a simple procedure which has particular advantages for the shorter word binary computers. The method combines the result of any conventional arithmetic generator with the current state of counters by means of a logic instruction. A variety of statistical tests have indicated that good results are realized."
"This paper describes a method for using sequential positional information to recognize handprinted Chinese characters, and a computer program which uses this method to provide a translation aid. The method is based on the fact that Chinese characters are drawn as a definite sequence of a few types of strokes. The program, which provides a direct man-computer communication via a RAND Tablet and a CRT display, simplifies using a Chinese dictionary by reducing the number of steps and the time required."
"An unsupervised or nonsupervised adaptive algorithm for linear decision boundaries is applied to two pattern recognition problems: the classification of spoken words, and the classification of hand-printed characters. The term unsupervised indicates that the class identification of the input patterns is not continuously available to the adaptive system. The algorithm discussed offers two advantages for pattern recognition applications. First, the number of patterns which must be labeled with class identification is reduced. Second, the adaptive system can follow changes in the class distributions over time, due to data fluctuation or hardware degradation. These advantages are demonstrated for each of the two applications."
"Binary multiplication can be speeded up by taking two or more bits of the multiplier at a time. This note describes an exact method, based on the use of a discrete-time, finite-state system model, for calculating the gain in multiplication speed resulting from such a scheme. It is shown that the gain in speed is less than what had previously been obtained using an approximation formula."
"Self-clocking of binary information involves a coding constraint whereby the maximum length of zero strings is limited to a predetermined number. For reasons of operational stability it is desirable to keep this number low. The price of such constraint is a degradation in code density. The class of serial recording which includes the well-known frequency modulation and phase encoding represents one extreme where every other symbol is mandatory, making the code density one bit for every two symbols. This paper describes a coding method which improves code efficiency while maintaining the constraint on the length of zero strings. It will be shown that adaptive coding, which is an extension of the block code concept known from information theory, offers a significant improvement. The concept is illustrated by describing a practical application in which the code density is improved from two symbols per bit to three symbols per bit pair, while keeping the maximum length of zero strings to one. It is shown that while this technique represents an improvement by one third over phase encoding, it approaches the theoretical limit for this class of codes to within 4 percent."
"In this note the successive-higher-ordering method for testing and realization of threshold functions is applied to the realization of a threshold function F, such that it will contain a given function F1, which may or may not be a threshold function, and such that it will be contained in F1+Fø, where Fø is the function representing the don't care vertices. Before the application of the successive-higher-ordering method, the given functions F1 and F0 = (F1+Fø) are first changed into unate functions by the successive positivizing of the functions with respect to the variables, one at a time. Some theorems relating to this formation of unate functions are presented. A systematic procedure for testing and realization is developed. An example is given for illustration."
"The hyperoctahedral group on the set of N-variable Boolean functions is defined. The problem of determining, given an arbitrary function, its equivalence class membership (type) is posed and, for the special case of four-variable functions, solved by a method that in use proved to be four times as rapid as computation of the conventional Golomb-Ninomiya[1],[2] invariants."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"A comprehensive listing of the authors, articles and departments included in 1967."
"This index covers all technical items that appeared in this periodical during the year."
"This index covers all technical items - papers, correspondence, reviews, etc. - that appeared in this periodical during the year, and items from previous years that were commented upon or corrected in this year. Departments and other items may also be covered if they have been judged to have archival value. The Author Index contains the primary entry for each item, listed under the first author's name. The primary entry includes the coauthors' names, the title of the paper or other item, and its location, specified by the publication abbreviation, year, month, and inclusive pagination. The Subject Index contains entries describing the item under all appropriate subject headings, plus the first author's name, the publication abbreviation, month, and year, and inclusive pages. Note that the item title is found only under the primary entry in the Author Index."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"This index covers all technical items - papers, correspondence, reviews, etc. - that appeared in this periodical during the year, and items from previous years that were commented upon or corrected in this year. Departments and other items may also be covered if they have been judged to have archival value. The Author Index contains the primary entry for each item, listed under the first author's name. The primary entry includes the coauthors' names, the title of the paper or other item, and its location, specified by the publication abbreviation, year, month, and inclusive pagination. The Subject Index contains entries describing the item under all appropriate subject headings, plus the first author's name, the publication abbreviation, month, and year, and inclusive pages. Note that the item title is found only under the primary entry in the Author Index."
"This page or pages intentionally left blank."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"Suppose one wishes to estimate the phase of a minimum-phase operator over a finite frequency range from the amplitude spectrum over the same finite frequency range. This can be accurately accomplished if the phase can be assumed to be approximately constant outside of this finite frequency range. This paper discusses a workable formulation of a method of phase estimation in which the phase-error in the finite frequency range is expressible as a fraction of the maximum deviation of the phase from constancy outside of the finite frequency range."
"Scientists from the Graduate Research Center of the Southwest, Texas Christian University, and Texas Instruments Incorporated are conducting theoretical and experimental studies of the effects of magnetohydrodynamic (MHD) waves on low-frequency (10-4 to 100 cps) fluctuations in the earth's electromagnetic field (often called micropulsations). The experimental part of the program involves the operation of an observatory for the sensing and collection of micropulsation data. This micropulsation observatory, together with a U. S. Coast and Geodetic Survey Standard magnetographic observatory, are collectively known as the Dallas Geomagnetic Center. The magnetic field changes in N-S and E-W geomagnetic directions are sensed by means of induction coils with six foot long mu-metal cores, short iron core coils, an Automatic Standard Magnetic Observatory (ASMO) which uses a rubidium vapor magnetometer, and by standard magnetographs. Corresponding electric field changes are sensed by electrode pairs buried in the Earth a few hundred feet apart. The data which consists of recordings of fluctuations in the earth's magnetic and electric fields in a range from a few cycles per month to a few cycles per second (cps) is available in the form of reproducible paper charts, analog magnetic tape, digital magnetic tape, and punched paper tape, or IBM cards."
"The problem of specifying the capacity of a digitizer, in terms of sampling rate and available bits, is related to the dynamic range of the analog signal to be converted, the noise in the analog system and the use to be made of the digital values. When a transient analog signal is to be converted and subsequently recovered, as required in many geophysical interpretations, a sampling rate as high as eight or ten times per cycle of the highest frequency may be desirable, though costly. On the other hand, a quantizing interval smaller than twice the rms noise provides little additional information in most cases, where the noise frequencies are in the same general range as the signal passband."
"Recent developments in equipment in the field of atmospheric electricity has made possible a more detailed study of cloud-to-cloud and cloud-to-ground lightning. It has been found that the stepped and dart leaders for both types of lightning radiate electromagnetic energy that is characterized by a frequency band that centers at 150 kHz. The techniques involved in obtaining these results can now be employed in the study of other types of discharges, namely the flare, tornado pulse generator, and cloud-to-ionosphere discharges."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"The problem of factoring a spectral density into its minimum phase part can arise in deconvolution problems even when one is solving for the unrealizable filter. Section II of this paper shows explicitly how the need for this relation arises in finding the optimum filter for the dereverberation problem. Although the minimum phase relation for Fourier transforms of time-continuous functions is widely known, the corresponding relation for z transforms of time-discrete sequences is less widely known. Section III gives a brief expository treatment of the z transform. The exposition emphasizes the real part-imaginary part relation and how this may be used to factor a z-transform function into two parts, one corresponding to a minimum phase realizable time function. Section IV concludes with a discussion of the computational aspects of this relation and some examples which show the increased accuracy obtainable by use of the z transform (as opposed to the Fourier transform) for time-discrete sequences."
"In June of 1962 a digital computer (IBM 1710) was placed aboard the Research Vessel Chain of the Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution. This system has made it possible to automatically sample, compute, and record the ship's heading and speed, latitude and longitude, water depth, gravity in terms of total acceleration, free-air and Bouguer anomalies, and the magnetic field of the earth. The system was expanded in November, 1963, to provide online plotting of bathymetric, gravity anomaly, and magnetic field profiles; computer control of gravity meter spring tension; processing of ocean surface temperature and sound velocity measurements; reduction of Loran C and VLF radio navigation data to latitude and longitude; display of ship's position and numerical data at remote stations aboard the ship; and malfunction detection and alarm message generation. Three magnetic-disk storage units are used for data and program storage and provide the ability to merge real-time on-line computations with background off-line computations (time-sharing). Experiments are being made using three input/output typewriters at remote locations on the ship. The advantages of a shipboard system are described."
"A theoretical study has been made of the transmission of electrical signals through the earth in order to devise the most promising methods for determining the electrical resistance of deeplying formations. It was found that the most effective technique is one which apparently has not been previously proposed. Theoretical analysis indicates this new method can provide a fairly accurate measurement of the variation in subsurface resistance at depths of interest in explorations for petroleum reservoirs and other deep-seated mineral deposits. Field tests carried out in the western part of Kern County, Calif., show that the results obtained by this method are in good agreement with the electrical resistive logs obtained from drilled wells."
"It is shown that the parametric action produced in a mechanical circuit by a spring with time-variable stiffness can increase the subresonant or long period response of a pendulum. The theory of operation of such a mechanical parametric amplifier is described in terms of Mathieu's equation. The construction of the device in the form of a seismometer is described. Experimental data are given showing a two order of magnitude increase in low-frequency response."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Interdisciplinary research on the geoscience value of radar systems is being conducted by geoscientists and electrical engineers at the Center for Research in Engineering Science (CRES), University of Kansas, Lawrence. This paper presents a segment of the research in which the investigators studied similarities and contrasts between panchromatic aerial photography and radar imagery from the Cane Springs area in Arizona, for which precise surface geologic data are available. Lithologic and structural information is available on the radar imagery which is not as apparent on the air photography; however, the converse is also true. Interpretations also reveal the fundamental advantage of multisensor reconnaissance, in which several discrete parts of the electromagnetic spectrum are utilized. The resulting extrapolation of data can provide a valuable supplement to geological reconnaissance."
"An electronic system for measuring the period of freely swinging pendulums has been developed for use with the Canadian Pendulum Apparatus. Extensive testing with an electrically generated test signal suggests that the error in determining the mean period of a one-second pendulum, averaged over 1200 seconds, does not exceed 100 and may be as low as 13 ns. Further testing with actual pendulums indicates that the measured periods, for a group of 3000-second observations, have a standard deviation of 600 ns. It is believed that this increased error is due to some factor associated with the pendulums, such as the effects of microseisms, knife-edge effects, or the dimensional stability of the pendulums themselves."
"A temperature control system has been developed for use with the Canadian Pendulum Apparatus for relative gravity measurements. This system, which maintains the pendulums at a constant temperature of 40.000C, consists of three major components: a vacuum enclosure in which to house the pendulums; an electronic thermometer to measure their temperature; and an electronic thermostat to maintain a constant temperature. Extensive testing of the system indicates that the temperature of the pendulums may be measured with an accuracy of ±0.01°C and that the electronic thermostat has a stability of about 0.002°C when the vacuum chamber is kept continuously closed. Under normal operating conditions, when the pendulum case is opened regularly to change pendulums, the observed temperature fluctuations amount to a maximum of ±0.025°C. As small corrections may be, applied to the pendulum periods to compensate for these temperature fluctuations, the error in gravity due to temperature effects never exceeds 1/6 mGal."
"A series of experiments for the purpose of determining the limiting sensitivity of seismic detection systems developed the following criteria for the visual detectability of permanent chart-recorded sinusoidal signals in the presence of bandlimited random noise. 1) The visual detection process is capable of discriminating against unwanted signals or noise outside of some frequency band of interest. 2) This discriminatory ability of the visual detection process can be represented by a filter with a geometric-mean center frequency of 0.2 cycles/mm and an effective bandwidth of 3 octaves. 3) For a sinusoidal signal to be detectable within the bandpass of this visual filter a signal-to-noise ratio of 2 is required. 4) The above criteria are applicable to sinusoidal signals 3 cycles in duration or greater."
"A technique is discussed which provides the coil constant, i.e., generated field per increment of applied current, for small-coil systems or solenoids in terms of absolute units traceable to the National Bureau of Standards. Essentially, the procedure involves the use of the coil system under test to cancel the geomagnetic field vector and measurement of the applied current. Under proper conditions, an absolute accuracy to within 0.02 percent or better is obtainable."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"This paper will first discuss characteristics of the different laser sources with particular emphasis on the display output power needs. There are a number of nonlinear optical effects that appear useful to display systems; of particular interest for displays are the effects related to the controllable change of the wavelength of coherent radiation incident on the nonlinear media. The nonlinear techniques to be discussed are those related to harmonic generation, Raman laser action, and optical parametric amplification and oscillation. Calculations on the parametric oscillation effect show that a one watt blue or UV laser can effectively provide the optical pumping which would result in a very appreciable tunable optical output over the visible spectrum."
"The method of using some of the \"empty\" lines during the vertical blanking interval for special signals, such as reference and test signals, has developed considerably during the last few years. Efforts toward standardization and a common code at practice have been made, especially within the European broadcasting area. The first part of this paper reviews these developments, stressing the most important aspects."
"This paper analyzes, mostly on a qualitative basis, cross modulation into an SCA channel resulting from a stereophonic signal complying with FCC rules, both signals being applied to a common RF carrier. This type of crosstalk is caused mainly by second order harmonic distortion products of the left minus right double sideband information [L-R(DSB)]. These components fall into the frequency area occupied by the SCA channel. In order to minimize this type of cross modulation, so as to provide a 50 dB signal-to-noise ratio on the SCA subcarrier, distortion products of the L-R (DSB) signal should be kept below 0.2 percent."
"A system for high level, high efficiency amplitude modulation is described which avoids the use of a modulation transformer, thereby permitting the application of wideband feedback, resulting in very low distortion and a full power pass band of 20 to 20 000 Hz."
"The side-mounted antenna array is becoming increasingly popular as a television antenna. An efficient and economical radiator for the purpose is the zig-zag panel antenna. The V-Z panel is a zig-zag antenna that is modified to produce a broader horizontal pattern. With the technique of panel skewing, practical omnidirectional arrays can be built with only three V-Z panels properly mounted around a large tower."
"The subject of reproduced loudness of aural broadcasting has been one of interest and controversy to broadcast engineers, as well as listeners, for many years. Differences in apparent loudness of various types of program material, all at the same volume indicator level, have been noted on many occasions. The choice of characteristics of the present standard volume indicator, the VU meter, was influenced by the desire to have a closer relation between program level and loudness. There are those who want music as a background and voice announcements, such as news and weather, to be loud enough to be heard under adverse listening conditions, such as in a moving vehicle, and there are those who hold the opposite view as to desirable relative loudness of voice and music. The recent action by the Federal Communications Commission relative to loudness of commercial announcements has stimulated investigations of program loudness, its measurement, and its control in the broadcast system."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"The system described here was developed in order to record the pseudorandom scan television signal developed by Deutsch. The objective was to investigate the possibility of recording a 200 kHz video signal on a 1/4 in tape running at 15 in/s. The difficulties which arise in such a task are two-fold: 1) bandwidth limitations of the recorder; and 2) flutter and skew of the recorder. Since a tape recorder at this speed has a bandwidth of about 45 kHz, time-division multiplexing was used to reduce the signal into low-frequency signals. The problem is to reassemble the signals at playback. This is a difficult task since these signals are shifted in time randomly by flutter and skew. Experiments disclose that the skew is linearly distributed across the tape; therefore, by knowing this time shift between two tracks at any instant, the position of the appropriate sample at any other track can be predicted. For skew and flutter compensation purposes two reference signals are recorded on the two outer tracks of the tape. The phaseshift of the reference signals at playback is used as a measure for the skew prediction system for each track. Thus the video signals are sampled at the correct value. In order to reassemble the samples in the correct time sequence, they are stored in analog memory cells. The memory cells are read out with the aid of an oscillator which is in turn synchronized with flutter. The deflection waveforms are also generated synchronous with this oscillator."
"A study was made to determine the feasibility of multiplexing land-mobile base station signals on the carrier of an FM broadcast station. A multiplex system was designed, laboratory tested, and field tested on a commercial FM station. The test results indicated that the system tested was compatible and the subchannel quality was good."
"In the past, CATV systems have been designed around existing equipment items such as the 22 dB gain trunk amplifier instead of vice versa, with equipment items designed to meet overall system design philosophy and performance criteria. This paper takes a fresh look at the CATV distribution system design philosophy between the antenna site and the subscriber's TV receiver. With the availability of high-output solid-state CATV amplifiers, different and novel equipment requirements are derived. Signal-to-noise, distortion, and automatic level control are all examined. Resulting equipment designed on this basis results in: 1) improved performance at lower installed cost, and 2) reduced maintenance costs. These specific equipment items are also described."
"This paper gives a technical description of RCA's newest Super Fleetfone land-mobile equipment. Factors in system planning and design are considered and explained. Frequency allocation, channels for operation, wave propagation, planning aids, transmitter power, antennas gain, receiver sensitivity, intermodulation, signal levels, audio distortion, and other considerations of importance to the user are discussed."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"A Master FM Antenna and multiplexing system has recently been installed on the Empire State Building which allows any number of FM stations up to a maximum of seventeen to simultaneously broadcast from a single antenna, without interference, an essentially omnidirectional signal in the horizontal plane with approximately equal horizontal and vertical polarization components."
"This paper discusses a number of the \"degrees of freedom\" which are available for policy decisions in space broadcasting. In the paper the emphasis has been placed on the range of possibilities allowed and the limits imposed by technological factors. Within this range of limits, policy decisions are needed. In addition, the paper includes, in some cases, comments and observations based on the results of several years intensive study of the possibilities and problems of space broadcasting."
"The state-of-the-art of direct-energy-conversion techniques, including solar cells, thermoelectrics, and thermionics are reviewed. While the greatest impetus for new methods of power generation stems from military and space requirements, the resultant technology will eventually have significant impact on commercial and domestic power generation, especially in situations where conventional electrical power sources are either nonexistent or inadequate."
"This paper describes a new method of approach to tuning a broadcast directional antenna array in the field. Several new instruments developed by the author are described along with the manner in which they allow very low power levels to be used in the initial adjustment work. Low power elements such as continuously variable wide range delay lines are used along with resistive attenuator pads to simulate the ultimately desired values needed in the high power divider and phase shifting system and to produce the very desirable effect of isolating antenna and network interactive effects and thus reducing the magnitude of the basic task in terms of time, component parts, and the stretching of a field engineer's patience. Hence the term ISOLOGUE. Power levels range on the order of one or two watts into the system common point and this allows for the use of receiver-size components on a temporary basis in addition to providing complete safety to the engineer and those assisting him. After the pattern design value of current ratio and phase have been established using low power levels and small component elements, the high power network section blocks may be set up on a virtual one-by-one basis."
"This page or pages intentionally left blank."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"Envelope detection of single-sideband signals produces distortion under some conditions. The color information in the NTSC system is transmitted as a single sideband. One effect of the distortion is to change the saturation of colored areas. The change in saturation is calculated for a standard color-bar signal."
"An engineering study has been made of the use of high-power transmitters for providing medium-wave broadcasting service in Europe and the nearby areas of North Africa and the Middle East. The purpose of the study is to acquaint American broadcasting engineers with the experience and problems which have resulted from medium-wave broadcasting allocations and operations in the European area in recent years. The Clear Channel stations operating in the United States have, for some time, recommended the use of transmitter powers considerably higher than the present maximum limit of 50 kW which is set forth in the FCC rules. Only limited experimental operation with high power has been permitted in the United States and it is thus considered to be of interest to examine the results obtained with high-power broadcasting in Europe."
"The loss in detail response which results from pairing in the camera and/or the monitor is investigated. It is shown that there are two components of degradation of the detail response. One is due to the displacement of one part of the image on one field relative to the rest of the image in the other field. This relative displacement causes a loss in detail response at all line numbers. The other component is a truncation of the detail response due to the inefficient sampling, when the sampling interval is nonuniform. Measuring methods for the determination of percentage pairing in both camera and monitor are suggested. These methods include both qualitative evaluation and quantitative measurement."
"This index covers all technical items - papers, correspondence, reviews, etc. - that appeared in this periodical during the year, and items from previous years that were commented upon or corrected in this year. Departments and other items may also be covered if they have been judged to have archival value. The Author Index contains the primary entry for each item, listed under the first author's name. The primary entry includes the coauthors' names, the title of the paper or other item, and its location, specified by the publication abbreviation, year, month, and inclusive pagination. The Subject Index contains entries describing the item under all appropriate subject headings, plus the first author's name, the publication abbreviation, month, and year, and inclusive pages. Note that the item title is found only under the primary entry in the Author Index."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Presents the cover/table of contents for the proceedings."
"A learning adaptive flight control system was developed for stability augmentation of the longitndinal axis of the Fl0lB fighter aircraft. Design techniques described are generally applicable to a broad range of perfornance criteria and for a variety of control srstems problems including aircraft flight control. The design philosophy was adopted which required the use of three loops in the control system. The learning controller employs the strategy of long-term memory recall and selective reinforcement with the objective of maintaining relatively constant handling characteristics when the aircraft undergoes large variations in its system parameters due either to environment or to modification in the aircraft itself."
"This paper is concerned with the application of adaptive neural networks (ANNs) to the automatic classification of speech segments. Speech segments as used here will be taken to mean short segments on the order of dyads, half-syllables, or possibly syllables. At this time it is an open question as to the type of subword segments best employed in speech recognition systems. To the writer, a dyad segment appears to be the best candidate. For the present only pre-segmented data will be investigated. It should be mentioned, however, that segmentation and classification of segments are not independent and thus a full fledged recognition system would probably entail feedback from the segment classifier to the segmenter."
"The paper is concerned with the application of multivariate regression analysis to the reduction of a many-variable control problem and to the identification of linear and nonlinear time-varying processes. Reduction is performed by grouping the input and output variables of a many-variable process into a small number of groups of variables. Control is exercised in terms of a few variables, each representing such a group. Regression is further applied to the identification of linear and nonlinear multivariable processes where no apriori information of the dynamic characteristics is available. The resulting identification subroutines are conveniently incorporated in control procedures based on predictive-adaptive control and on dynamic programming."
"The threshold-function effects on the changes in a feedback gain vector, made during an errorcorrection updating procedure, have been demonstrated. The qualities referred to earlier are given as a transition diagram figure. With a threshold function present, the feedback gains may change in any one or more of six different ways. On the other hand, in the absence of a threshold function, the feedback gains always change in the same manner, either by increasing, decreasing, increasing, etc., or by decreasing, increasing, decreasing, etc. The limit cycles in the figure are a general property of error-correction learning algorithms in which the feedback gains are subject to gradient-type changes."
"Introspection leads us to believe that universals and meaning are extracted from sensory information before responsive action commences: as if we act first as passive observers whose subsequent reactions follow a process of recognition and decision. We are inclined to base our designs of cognitive systems upon such subjective insights. However, if we take into account the necessity for a prior, ontogenetic growth of a repertoire of perception, it appears more probable that we are engaged in unceasing interaction with our environment and that a response itself, driven by homeostatic mechanisms, contains the meaningful information about the object of the response. The components of the world are thereby described not in terms of their intrinsic spatio-temporal parameters but by their relation to the observer. A rudimentary visual system employing a Probability State Variable (PSV) Controller as a, homeostat is described, and the prototype peripheral hardware suggested. The addition of an associative memory would allow the buildup of a cognitive model of the world, but the reactive searching by the system described --- as if it were an autonomous \"perceptuo-postural\" mechanism --- must begin the process of discovering the properties of reality."
"Close relationships are established between convolutional codes and zero-state automata and between cyclic codes and zero-input automata. Further, techniques of automata theory and continuous system theory are used to establish and interpret typical structural conditions in continuous systems. The investigation incorporates basic coding concepts into the currently emerging common basis for automata and continuous systems, and gives explicit examples of the resulting benefits accruing to each of these areas from the others."
"This paper considers the effect of environmental nonstationarities on the performance of a stochastic automaton when it is used in the synthesis of an adaptive controller. The stochastic automaton considered has a variable structure in that its state probabilities are continuously altered according to a reinforcement scheme in response to penalties received from the environment. The automaton adapts by reducing the average penalty. Periodic perturbations of penalty strengths are used as \"test signals\" to derive analytic expressions describing the \"tracking\" behavior of the automaton operating under a linear reinforcement scheme. The pertinent parameters governing the adaptive behavior are discussed in detail. Digital simulation studies are presented for 2-state and 10-state cases. The results agree with the theoretical analysis."
"A two stage classification model is presented in which the first stage is a quick computerizd Bayes Rule decision device, and the second is a slow, but perfectly accurate, classifier. A stationary stream of elements or objects to be classified into one of several mutually exclusive categories is fed into the model. The conditional probabilities associated with the Bayes device are assumed unknown at the outset, except up to an initial probability distribution. The a posteriori probabilities from the first stage are treated as information that can speed up or slow down the processing time in the second stage. The latter, after a delay time, feeds back accurate classification information to the first stage to update the conditional probabilities. It is shown that, as the classification process unfolds, any updating scheme that causes the Bayes Classifier ultimately to \"learn\" the true values of the conditional probabilities also minimizes the expected processing time in the second stage. The learning rate of the system is discussed as a function of the updating scheme. An example of a simple system is presented and the learning rate is derived specifically for that case."
"Two error models for the prediction of discrete integration error along with their associated mathematical formulations are presented. The models are categorized according to their specification of error. The developed procedures accommodate deterministic excitations with known frequency characteristics as well as stochastic excitations with rational power spectra. In addition, these models exhibit flexibility by permitting selection of integration technique, integration order, and interpolation/reconstruction scheme. The interest in these error models lies in their extensive usage in control, data processing, and telemetry, and an attempt is made to effect accurate and efficient operation through error prediction."
"In this paper an approach to the design of nondistorting finite-memory digital filters is presented. The filter is considered as a multibranch system where each branch contains an extractor to select a particular input component, a functional operator to perform the desired operation (prediction, differentiation, smoothing, etc.) and an annihilator to enhance the noise rejection characteristics of the branch. Thus exact differentiation or prediction can be obtained with a considerable noise rejection figure. The complete removal of some undesirable components is also achieved. Design expressions for extractors, functional operators and annihilators are given and several applications relating mainly to computer-control systems are treated."
"A seemingly paradoxical situation existed in the Kalman-Bucy formulation of a problem of optimum radio-inertial navigation. The difficulty is traced to the a priori information used in the estimate and variance equations. The reason for the existence of an improved a priori estimate is given. It is shown that with the improved a priori information as initial conditions, the Kalman-Bucy filter gives the same result as that obtained by Peterson originally using the integral equation approach."
"The emphasis of this paper will center around a new power switching system using a monolithic control circuit, catalog number PA424, which is now being produced by the Semiconductor Products Department of the General Electric Company and the S200 power control modules. Another significant accomplishment is the direct operation of the complete system including the integrated circuit (IC) from normal supply voltages without the need for transformers."
"This paper describes the design advantages and limitations of a hybrid digital-to-analog converter that is capable of a 12-bit resolution with an accuracy that is better than one-half the least significant bit. Through advances made in the research and applications of tantalum - nitride and nickel - chromium resistors, analog conversion systems can be designed to be compatible in size, weight, and power to monolithic digital and linear circuits. The system described here, also indicates why the hybrid circuit design is necessary for obtaining the accuracy required and where the monolithic design joins to optimize the characteristics of both fabrication methods. The basic elements that make up a digital-to-analog converter are the ladder network and the semiconductor switches. In order to produce output voltage steps that are accurate to +0.0122%, the tolerances and matching characteristics of tantalum - nitride resistors are required. It is also extremely vital to have an ideal switch having very low resistance to connect the reference voltage to the ladder. This requirement is best satisfied through the use of low offset chopper transistors and can presently be optimized only in hybrid form. Resolution and accuracy -- two of the most important requirements in digital-to-analog conversion, can be made presently available, only when the advantages of monolithic and hybrid technologies are joined under the conditions described in this paper."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"Provides a listing of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"The rapid evolution of cross-linked polyethylene for high-voltage cable applications and the factors which promoted this development are discussed in relation to the growing demand for solid-dielectric constructions. Advances in cable design and technology are outlined for this thermally-stable insulation, highlighting the technical advantages of tandem-extruded cross-linked semiconductive shielding."
"An analytical study was made of the separator-filter type of discharge detector circuit when connected to long cable lengths during corona measurements of polyethylene insulated power cables. Based on this study, it is indicated how optimum detector and connecting circuit parameters can be chosen to best advantage when this type of detection equipment is used in factories where the electrical noise level is high. Under these conditions, it is indicated that a sensitivity of 4 pC (picocoulombs) is obtained on long lengths of power cables over a large range of commercial conductor sizes and voltage ratings; and that on relatively short lengths, the sensitivity is as low as 0.1 pC. It is explained that it is necessary to calibrate the particular measuring circuit with the cable load included, preferably using an exponential pulse applied to the far end of the cable, in order for the discharge measurements to have any real meaning."
"The paper describes in some detail the field of drying and impregnation of paper insulated cables. The first part deals with water content of paper, discussing the modes in which this water is held in cellulose and the water content of oil, together with the way in which this water is present in oil."
"High-voltage-time tests at 60 cycles were made with an 800-kV series resonant test set on 21 samples of 345-kV impregnated -paper-insulated high-pressure oil-pipe-type cable. The breakdown level of cables, expressed in equivalent volts per mil for one hour life (V/mil/h) under 200-psig oil pressure decreased from 1130 to 850 V/mil/h when the conductor temperature was increased from 70 to 110°C. At 100 psig the breakdown level decreased from 870 to 670 V/mil/h from 50 to 80°C. One sample at 50 psig with a conductor temperature of 62°C had a breakdown level of 600 V/mil/h. Fault paths terminated in radial holes at the conductor and outer shield with a longitudinal running path between these terminations. There was no regular pattern to the fault paths, relative to the conductor screen or to gaps between turns of the insulating tapes."
"An EHV power cable with compressed pure SF6 gas insulation was produced experimentally, and succeeded in the dielectric withstand test. The outside diameter of one phase of the cable was 14 inches. The conductor, composed of a metal pipe 4½ inches in diameter, was arranged at the center of the outer pipe, and supported by spacers placed at intervals of about 15 feet."
"Two categories of lapping theory for paper-insulated cable are reviewed. The first category, old and established, analyzes the structure of the paper lapping which influences the electric strength of the cable in terms of the paper registration only, e.g. 65/35 registration. The second category, recently developed and based on the mathematical theory of elasticity involving both the paper dimensions and its physical properties, aimed to obtain correct paper tensions for lapping. The result was the elimination of creases and wrinkles, which are always potential sources of dielectric weakness."
"The authors first give a short description of the existing 225-kV underground system of the Paris area, where oil-pressure pipe-type cables have been mainly used since 1954. The new plans of development of this system call for new 225-kV cables, which will supply 225/20-kV distribution substations right in the heart of the city. Self-contained single-conductor cables would probably present some advantages for laying along such difficult urban routes. This is the reason why oil-filled aluminum-sheathed cables are being studied for possible future use. However, all the corresponding problems do not seem to be solved yet."
"This paper surveys British progress, over a five-year period since an earlier paper [1], in meeting the steeply rising demand for electricity. During this period EHV cables, having over twice the conductor section and power transfer capabilities previously used, have been designed and manufactured."
"The various factors involved in hydrothermal coordination and their interrelation required for optimum operation are discussed. Also, the relative advantages and disadvantages of various methods available for obtaining optimum operation of hydrothermal systems are compared. In addition, a basis for an on-line control computer is suggested and its possible advantages are discussed briefly."
"Recent field tests of a 230-kV, 20 000-MVA oil circuit breaker are discussed and evaluated. Initial test results revealed requirements for design modifications, the nature of which are reviewed. An interim field development test and the final acceptance tests are renewed and data are presented. The need for a developmental field test site and the characteristics and organization of one such facility are described."
"The development of circuit interrupting devices can be accomplished more efficiently if not delayed by problems which are related to the laboratory in which tests are made. A unique current pulse laboratory has been created which simplifies the connection of test samples to the source of power. The control and timing of switching devices has been automated to reduce the time required for adjustment and to improve reliability in the operation of protective devices. Special ultra-high speed switches have been designed which are used for synchronized closing on a selected point-on-wave and for short circuiting the test device at the end of a current loop. The ability to protect the test sample by short circuiting provides information on conditions existing at the instant of failure of a device, since the test can be terminated before any extensive damage to the devices has occurred. Furthermore, the cooperative use of two ultra-high speed closing switches makes possible the injection into a test device of precisely controlled energy pulses in the form of loops of current from a power frequency source. This paper describes the equipment required to perform controlled pulse tests and discusses the advantages which result."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"This page or pages intentionally left blank."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"Power transmission of high-voltage direct current (HV dc) by overhead lines presents a new concept with which the industry has had little experience. Radio noise and corona loss values were recorded on a full-scale test line and statistically analyzed in relation to prevailing weather conditions. Comparison was made to radio noise readings taken on a nearby ac line. Results cover the analysis of approximately six months' data."
"Laboratory tests were conducted to determine the dc flashover characteristics of clean, artificially, and naturally contaminated transmission line suspension insulators. Direct current flashover of clean and contaminated insulators in the fog chamber is a linear function of string length up to 350 kV. Comparative data are presented on a number of specimens for clean-wet and contaminated insulators in the fog chamber. BPA's fog chamber tests on artificially contaminated insulators are equivalent to severe natural contamination."
"Laboratory tests were conducted to determine the dc flashover characteristics of rod gaps, line-to-tower air gaps, and suspension insulator assemblies. Direct current flashover for test voltages to 725 kV has been shown to be a linear function of specimen length for either polarity or for either wet or dry test conditions. Comparative data are presented for dc, ac, and switching surge test voltages."
"The different solutions for equipment layouts that are available in the construction of terminals for HV dc transmissions are introduced and discussed. Land area and the building volume requirements for the different layouts have been developed. These figures can be used as a base for system planning consideration and preliminary terminal cost estimates. Cost for premises and of building construction of the terminal buildings are also discussed. It is shown that the variation in this respect is considerable from location to location so that the most suitable layout will vary from case to case. Four alternative layouts are introduced. From the figures of these it is possible to select the type of layout which should be applied in a specific case."
"High-voltage dc transmission is becoming increasingly important where heavy loads are to be transmitted over long distances. While most HV dc transmission will probably be overhead, a certain amount of insulated cable will undoubtedly be used for underground, submarine, and indoor work. The electrical stresses in the insulation of such cables are important, if safe and economical designs are to be developed. Because stress distribution under direct voltage is governed primarily by resistivity, which, in turn, varies drastically with temperature, it is more difficult to calculate than the corresponding ac stress distribution. In this paper a technique of calculation is presented based on a numerical approach, which permits the dc stress distribution to be computed quite readily."
"For termination of rubber-insulated cable, it has been found practical to simply expose the factory insulation between stress cone and terminal for uncontaminated outdoor locations. In severe contamination exposure, however, the factory insulation surface and conventional tapes have been found susceptible to deterioration from leakage-current, resulting in tracking and subsequent flashover. This difficulty may be reduced or eliminated by applying track-resistant tapes or tubes over the factory insulation at the termination. Teflon FEP fluorocarbon resin shrink-fit tubing, recently developed, resists this tracking approximately 30 times better than previously-used antitracking tape covers."
"Corona pulses originating in an insulation system under an applied test voltage may be observed on a cathode-ray oscilloscope coupled into the test circuit. The relation between a corona pulse at the system terminals and the height of the resulting oscilloscope deflection is influenced by the arrangement of the test circuit and is generally determined by a calibration procedure. The guide presents calibration procedures for four circuit arrangements. It also suggests a standard circuit for comparing the sensitivities of various corona-pulse measuring equipment."
"When preparing a computer program involving the use of insulation life expectancy data, it is necessary to know the equation for the life expectancy, or loss-of-life vs. temperature relationship. This information is often presented in chart form for which, in many cases, the equation is not given. To those who work closely with the accepted chemical reaction rate theory (Arrhenius relationship) for thermal aging, there is little problem in determining the constants A and B in life (L) vs. temperature (T) charts based on the equation ln L = B/T + A."
"Rapid growth of power systems places increased emphasis upon the quick procurement and safe delivery of high- voltage apparatus. To satisfy this need, a new oil-filled, high-voltage current transformer, which could be referred to as a modified version of an inverted eyebolt construction, has been developed. Advantages over the conventional eyebolt current transformer, together with special design features, characteristics, and tests are discussed. The basic unit is suitable for stocking prior to the installation of the primary winding."
"The design concepts for 735-kV current transformers are illustrated. The advantages of cascade construction are elaborated. Construction and test data covering the design and manufacture of a 4-stage cascade current transformer (CT) are included. Conclusions indicate that cascade construction is the best choice for certain applications."
"The increasing cost of power line carrier coupling equipment on newer high-voltage lines has prompted a study of less expensive coupling methods. The purpose of this paper is to reexamine overhead static wire coupling in the light of newer theories and available equipment, and compare this with conventional capacitor coupling. Data are submitted from a 345-kV line showing that static wire coupling can produce an acceptable carrier channel. Coupling loss increase is relatively small, and changing station impedances appears not to change system signal loss appreciably. Calculations of capacitively and inductively coupled voltages substantiate field results. This paper shows the feasibility of grounded static wire coupling, and it is hoped it will generate interest in examining other coupling methods."
"The results are presented of a computer study of the synchronous starting of a synchronous pumped storage generator motor from a generator having approximately 15 percent of the motor's capacity. In synchronous starting both motor and generator are initially at rest with excitation applied. The effects of system parameters such as armature circuit resistance, generator saturation, relative excitation on the two machines, amortisseur characteristics, initial starting angle, motor friction torque, gate leakage torque, and rate of application of torque were studied. Some of the more important conclusions are: synchronous starting with a generator of 15 percent size is entirely feasible, the most important electrical parameter is the generator armature resistance, a good amortisseur is desirable on the motor, there is a maximum generator torque that can usefully be applied, and any higher torque may simply cause the generator to run away. Gate leakage torque can be a more serious limitation than friction torque."
"An induction machine, fitted with two independent sets of windings on the stator, and two suitably interconnected sets of rotor windings, can be used as a variable speed machine in which the slip power from the rotor circuits is transferred by induction to one set of stator windings. From these it can be returned to the supply via a low power frequency converter which handles slip power only."
"The engineering of the electrical auxiliary system for Trenton Channel 9 is based on a major change in the philosophy of designing auxiliary electrical systems. A single transformer connected to the unit high-voltage bus will supply the major auxiliaries for the unit. Major features of the auxiliary system are described."
"The design and design principles of a time multi- break low-oil content high-voltage breaker are described. The breaker is based on individual V-shaped double break units which can be assembled in series from 72 up to 750 kV. Two current ranges, 27 and 42 kA, are at present available. From a large number of short-circuit tests on a breaking unit consisting of two breaks as well as on single breaks, evidence of very satisfactory switching behavior is introduced. Tests with high rates of rise of recovery voltage are included."
"Federal Income Tax (FIT) is one component of the total costs to be evaluated in an engineering decision. The revenue requirement for this component is described in a generalized equation. An engineer's selection of certain plant characteristics, such as average life, retirement dispersion, and net salvage, can reduce the revenue requirement for Federal Income Taxes. Also discussed are the many decisions beyond the engineer's control which affect Federal Income Taxes."
"The performance equations of ac machines referring to the α and β axes developed in a previous paper[1] are used to study the case of a double line-to-ground short circuit of a salient pole synchronous machine. Significant corrections are offered to the solutions proposed by other authors pertaining to the same case. Mathematical proof is established for such rectifications. As a result, new expressions for armature currents and field current are developed. In addition, decrement factors and a simple formula for X2 are derived."
"Possible ferroresonant overvoltages are shown on delta- wye transformer banks during single-phase switching as a function of transformer size and lateral length. The application guide is based on industry standard voltage criteria. Secondary loading requirements are given. Simple to use equations are given to allow application of test data."
"The use of aluminum for cable conductors has been hampered by the lack of an acceptable splicing technique. A method whereby the aluminum conductors of a 950-kcmil, 72-kV pipe cable were spliced by means of metal inert gas (MIG) welding and a field machined (FM) compression sleeve is described. The design criteria and the practical problems encountered during the development, as well as their solutions, are presented. The welding operation and connector application are fully described. Test data are included for strength and conductance in the splice."
"Since ground fault currents in high-voltage systems are on the increase, the hazards associated with transmission tower voltages during ground faults have become of concern. An analytical method is presented to determine these voltages for long and short lines, arbitrary ground network terminations, and any combination of skywires and counterpoise conductors. The proportion in which the fault current is supplied by the line on both sides of the fault location is taken into account, and the effect of fault currents flowing in parallel external circuits is also considered. The touch and step potentials at the faulted tower are determined and an assessment is given of the hazard they may represent. In a numerical example, several measures aimed at reducing this hazard are compared."
"The use of compression and soldering methods for applying pothead connectors to aluminum cable conductors has not been widely accepted. This paper describes the development of a simple technique by which an aluminum pothead connector was applied to 3000-kcmil, 15-kV, PILC, single-core (1/c) segmental aluminum cable by the metal inert gas (MIG) arc-welding process. The problems encountered in the development and their solutions are recorded and the welding operation is fully described."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"Provides a listing of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Equations are developed for the transient temperature cooling of the transformer cooling medium and for various types of transformer coils over their ambient medium. These have been evaluated on a percent temperature rise base for various powers of the watts dissipated and for both constant watt and constant current input. Some special cases of cooling are derived from the general transient temperature cooling equation and are shown to check the usual derivation."
"The equations developed in Part I of this study are evaluated and tabulated, and graphs of typical cases are shown. Examples illustrate the temperature rises of various temperature components for the power of the dissipated watts applicable to the particular component. The cases of constant watt input and constant current input are compared. The errors are shown if a wrong power of dissipated watts is used."
"Capacitive regenerative braking may occur in capacitor start motors when power is removed. A series resonant circuit is formed with the main winding and start winding connected in series through a relay or centrifugal switch to the start capacitor. The circuit will resonate over a range of speeds. Slip (which is negative) and saturation are determined by the conditions that the sum of the real impedances in the circuit must be zero and the sum of the imaginary impedances must also be zero. The rotational energy of the motor is converted into stator and rotor heating losses. Formulas are derived for the range of speed over which regeneration may take place, and a method of predicting braking torques is given. Braking torques several times larger than the rated maximum motor torque can be developed."
"Recent reports on the performance of oil breakers give the impression that they are not suitable for use on modem transmission systems. They imply that oil circuit breakers have reached a design maturity and that they cannot be made adequate for today's use. The record should truthfully say that these comments are applicable only to older oil circuit breakers and not to those of modem design. A 230-kV oil circuit breaker that was developed within the past year and designed to meet today's requirements is discussed. This involves meeting the requirements of ASA Standards C37.03 to C37.010 (Symmetrical Basis of Rating). It has a 20 000-MVA interrupting rating and a 2000-ampere continuous current rating. A description of the breaker and a full complement of test results are included."
"Large savings in generator insulation maintenance and replacement costs can be realized through the use of modem nondestructive insulation testing techniques. One such test involves subjecting the insulation system to a high direct voltage (HDV) with measurement of the resulting current as a function of time and voltage. A new concept of HDV testing and the associated test equipment, which will produce more reliable and useful data on the condition of the insulation system is presented. The new system is designed around a high-stability HDV supply which applies the test voltage at a predetermined continuous rate of rise which permits accurate measurement of small increments of specimen current. Emphasis is placed on the proper use of guard circuits and on the high stability of the power supply to eliminate misleading results and permit detection of fault paths nondestructively."
"Eleven participants comprising the South Central Electric Companies (SCEC) have contracted to exchange large blocks of power with the Tennessee Valley Authority (TVA). Problems attendant on these operations are discussed as a prelude to presenting concepts developed for an information processing system to satisfy requirements for message switching, interchange schedule preparation, loss determination, and energy accounting among the participants. Typical input-output formats are discussed, followed by a description of the new Bell System 8A1 Data System and the UNIVAC 418 Real-Time Computer System, as applied to meet SCEC operating requirements."
"This paper deals with the use of the insulating properties of wood in transmission line practice. The electrical properties impulse strength and arc quenching and the possible damaging effects of surge currents and power frequency leakage currents are considered. Prediction of the lightning performance of shielded and unshielded lines is discussed, and it is shown that the impulse strength and arc quenching properties of wood influence performance, the latter property being the dominant one for unshielded lines. A design criterion using this arc quenching property has been developed from experimental data on arc characteristics."
"The facilities of the Grand Coulee Pumping Plant and the original starting procedures used for the 65 000-hp synchronous motor-driven pumps are briefly described, followed by a description and schematic diagrams of the controls now used in the automatic centralized power control scheme. The starting, stopping, and remote annunciation systems associated with the pumps are described in detail. A description of the control system for the 108 000-kW generator associated with the pump unit is also included. The system has proved very satisfactory, and after one season of operation with the centralized power control scheme, only two minor modifications were made to provide greater reliability."
"The main properties of ethylene propylene rubber (EPR) compounds for the insulation of high-voltage power cables are summarized in comparison with those of other solid dielectrics; the discharge resistance of EPR is emphasized. Construction and installation data, as well as electrical acceptance and qualification test results for four EPR-insulated cables rated from 20 to 60 kV are given; attention is drawn to the installation of a 45-kV cable, 800 meters long, directly buried in the ground, in service in an industrial plant since January 1965."
"The standing wave effects of galloping conductor motion are analyzed in terms of parameters which may be evaluated in accordance with traditional procedures for dealing with analogous steady-state and transient phenomena in elementary electrical circuits. These parameters are defined and used to determine the conditions which must be satisfied to assure very completely damped galloping conductor motion. Means are proposed for incorporating the required friction resistance in a practical damper. An illustrative application is described, along with an appraisal which suggests that it may be possible to achieve sufficient control without requiring more than one of these dampers per conductor mile of overhead transmission circuit."
"This study was made to identify, photograph, and establish the radio noise importance of the fair-weather coronas occurring on an ac high-voltage transmission line conductor. Excursions of fair-weather interference to over ten times the base value of the line noise are attributed to corona plumes from vegetable particles and insects attached to the conductor. Vegetable particles and insects are dielectrics whose plumes occur on the positive half- cycle of potential. Radio noise from these plumes overrides other corona noises associated with the dielectric particles, the noise from weathered metal protrusions on the conductor strands, and the normal noise from insulators, accessories, and hardware. The conductor surface gradient, the total conductor surface area, and the rate of gradient decay outward from the surface are important to both particle attachment and severity of plume formation."
"The South Central Electric Companies (SCEC) system was one of the first operational 500-kV systems in the United States. The increased transmission capability of 500-kV systems emphasized the need for reliability and security of associated protective relaying facilities. Special considerations such as the protection of shunt reactors directly connected to the line and possibilities of higher percentage overvoltages than experienced on lower voltage systems were analyzed. At about the same time, static type protective relaying was being introduced as an improved type of protection. All of these factors are discussed in the development of the overall protective arrangement for the 500-kV lines and associated transformers."
"A comprehensive series of field tests was made on the Tennessee Valley Authority-South Central Electric Companies' (TVA-SCEC) 160-mile, 500-kV interconnecting line and associated terminal equipment. The tests included: energizing at controlled points on voltage wave and deenergizing shunt reactor compensated line with transient voltage limiting breaker; switching line and 1200- MVA transformer with a 161-kV transient voltage limiting breaker; applying solid persistent and transient arcing faults to line while carrying load; and high-speed reclosing after fault clearing. High- speed motion pictures were combined with oscillograms to obtain and relate data. The methods, instrumentation, and results are given in this paper."
"This paper discusses the various ways of determining the time to crest of switching surge test waves, and compares the expected accuracies of the various methods. Computer-generated waves are used for the comparisons to eliminate the human element in the results."
"The generalized impulse voltage measuring system is analyzed as a complete entity using the step response approach. The analysis shows that the response time of the system is not determined correctly by conventional methods and a new method is presented. Revisions to the conventional methods are proposed which will enable the true response time of the system to be determined. Five separate measuring systems are investigated experimentally using both techniques and the predicted and measured values of the conventionally measured response time are shown to be in very good agreement. As a result of the investigation, certain specific suggestions are made for revisions to existing standards for this type of measurement."
"European studies concerning transient recovery voltages (TRV) on two large HV networks are presented. The work was requested by CIGRE and carried out from a statistical point of view in order to draw some conclusions for circuit-breaker standardization. The main study was performed by means of transient network analyzers; a computer was also used in certain cases and for data tabulation. The methods used and results obtained are presented and some conclusions are drawn."
"The Working Group on Characteristics of Protective Gaps of the Lightning Protective Devices Subcommittee, IEEE Protective Devices Committee, carried out an industry survey on the use of spark gaps as surge protective devices in high-voltage systems. Of 91 utilities in the United States and Canada, 22 reported the installation of gaps in their systems, and 25, although not employing gaps at the present time, indicated their interest in gap applications. From the companies using gaps, information was received concerning gap construction, application, and service performance. Considerable variation in application practices is evident, depending upon individual system requirements and different approaches to the problem of station surge protection. The Working Group concludes that a recommendation or application guide for protective gaps would be of value to the industry."
"Through the application of linear flow graph theory to the solution of simultaneous equations, the author has developed a scheme which, in its basic algebraic manipulations, coincides with the Gaussian elimination process. Load flow studies in electrical networks, system fault and stability studies, analysis of structures (civil engineering), and numerical solution of linear differential equations give rise to a large set of linear simultaneous equations which require for their solution large and costly computers which usually are not accessible to engineers. Diakoptics, or system tearing, makes it possible to obtain those solutions with small computers in a reasonable time."
"The ac power flow problem can be solved efficiently by Newton's method. Only five iterations, each equivalent to about seven of the widely used Gauss-Seidel method, are required for an exact solution. Problem dependent memory and time requirements vary approximately in direct proportion to problem size. Problems of 500 to 1000 nodes can be solved on computers with 32K core memory. The method, introduced in 1961, has been made practical by optimally ordered Gaussian elimination and special programming techniques. Equations, programming details, and examples of solutions of large problems are given."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"This page or pages intentionally left blank."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"This paper presents the mathematical methods and their underlying principles for calculating the probability of outages of generating equipment by the loss of capacity method. An analysis is presented of observable data and their relation to derived quantities. Equations are developed for various types of generating units. The methods described are applicable to the evaluation of any number of interconnected systems. Formulas are included for probabilities of multiple full outages as well as combinations of full and partial outages. The mathematical methods are the basis of a computer program in use by the Commonwealth Edison Company for studies of generating capacity requirements."
"Although there are many publications on power system stability, the application of Liapunov's direct method to the study is relatively new. Gless[l] used an energy integral as a Liapunov function to study 1-, 2-, and 3-machine problems. El-Abiad and Nagappan,[2] also based their studies of the transient stability of a multi-machine system with losses on energy concepts."
"Since engineering is the art and science of developing resources, both human and material, for the best service of mankind, an awareness of at least the fundamentals of engineering economics is a necessary part of the kit of tools of all engineers so that they can function properly, i.e., as other than technicians or scientists."
"The modern undergraduate educational program for engineers insures that the student will be prepared for many possible careers. Educational programs should provide an economic orientation and the opportunity for more advanced work. A graduate level economics course for engineers, which is offered in industry and is aimed at fulfilling the educational requirements for satisfactory performance as a power system engineer in America is described. The authors also present their views concerning the requirements for education in this area."
"The consulting engineer is continually required to evaluate projects from an economic viewpoint. He must, therefore, have a firm understanding of the time-value of money and ways in which projects are financed and he should be able to apply such knowledge in analyzing alternative courses of action."
"The large units being installed today have auxiliary power requirements that exceed the capability of conventional auxiliary power systems. A study of the Tanners Creek unit of the American Electric Power Service Corporation was made to evaluate the design and formulate guidelines for future auxiliary bus designs. A complete analytical study was made, using pump and fan curves to determine expected auxiliary bus and equipment loadings."
"The factors involved in the parallel operation of alternating current generators are discussed in this paper, with particular emphasis placed on the operating performance of a relatively small peaking generator connected to a large power system. A brief description of the various types of excitation control systems used on these generators is presented, and the merits and disadvantages of each type are reviewed. A listing of the specific requirements of a regulator applied to a peaking generator is made, showing what the authors feel is necessary in an excitation control system for a generator used for both a peaking and a cranking unit. Finally, a typical excitation control system is described with its performance evaluated."
"The difficulties experienced with a hydro plant generator because the unit was operated an extended time with a greatly unbalanced generator rotor airgap are discussed. Rotor repairs required the development of a rather unique rotor rim support system."
"Many electric utilities which operate combined steam and hydroelectric generating systems are becoming increasingly aware, as a result of recent system split-ups, of the value of hydro plants, not only to supply costly peaking power requirements but as spinning reserve for protection during such major system disturbances. These utilities are also becoming increasingly concerned about the future availability of such older hydro plants as the time approaches when the initial licenses issued by the Federal Power Commission under the Federal Power Act of 1920 will begin to expire."
"The intent is to give a description of the elements of combination power and desalting plants and an insight into their economic characteristics. Descriptions of various turbine cycles proposed for large scale plants are given. A numerical example is worked out illustrating the most common approach to the allocation of production and fixed costs to the power and water producing facilities. A method for estimating the required heat input to the turbines for a set of desired production rates is given in the form of a nomograph. Although the principles outlined are generally applicable for any heat source, the numerical examples relate specifically to the pressurized water reactor as designed by Westinghouse."
"The parameters involved in providing carrier frequency coupling to a high-voltage power transmission line are examined. From these, conventional network theory is applied to obtain a high-pass coupling network which provides wideband 32 to 300 kHz, low-loss (less than 1/2 dB) operation over 1-phase wire-to-ground of a 3-phase line. Test data taken from appropriate models show the operating characteristics of the resulting design. Ten figures and three tables are provided to aid in designing specific systems. The physical aspects of this new high-pass coupling network and the results of field trial tests now in progress, which substantiate the design, are described in separate papers."
"A number of factors related to control of generation and power flow on interconnected systems are analyzed. Criteria by which effectiveness of regulation within an individual control area can be judged are examined. System control error is defined and its relationship to system frequency deviation and to system stored energy developed. In particular, inadvertent interchange is explored and its relationships to system time error for an area that regulates to zero control error is developed. Conditions under which the algebraic summation of inadvertent interchange around the interconnection would be zero are defined, and operating conditions when this would not be true are identified. This leads to an evaluation of the technique, used by some control areas, of correcting for inadvertent interchange by a unilateral change of net interchange schedule. The adverse effect which such unilateral action can have on the inadvertent accounts of other areas is pointed out. Quantitative relationships are derived which show the relatively small influence which unilateral schedule changes have on system frequency and time error. Also examined and noted to be of limited validity is the practice of deducting the time integral of the bias term from total inadvertent interchange to obtain unintentional inadvertent."
"A new insulation system for overhead electric lines is presented, together with the system concept and analysis of testing and development data upon which specific designs and application of epoxy-ceramic assemblies (ECA) have been based. For the purposes of data presentation and application referral, the discussion is directed principally toward transmission voltages of 69 kV and above. However, the system presented applies to the lower voltages as well."
"As generating units approach the 1000 MW size, the auxiliary system designer must innovate in order to achieve the reliability which the larger units demand. This reliability must be achieved within the limits of currently available equipment ratings without incurring unreasonable costs."
"The performance of the induction machine with a rotor of ferromagnetic bar assembly presents an interesting field problem not attempted so far. The insulation between the bars introduces an additional reluctance to the magnetic circuit in the circumferential direction and, for a proper theoretical analysis of the problem, the magnetization characteristics of the rotor material have to be modified, resulting in different working permeabilities for the rotor in the radial and circumferential directions. Further restriction on circumferential currents is also imposed by the radial insulation."
"The object of the paper is to present an analysis for the eddy current loss and flux penetration in a block of iron bounded by the planes x = ±h/2, y = ±∞ and z = 0 and ∞ when subjected to a traveling field on the surface z = 0. The analysis is based on the fundamental assumption that the component of the magnetizing force along the thickness of the block is zero every- where inside."
"A rigorous solution for the flux-density distribution on the armature surface of a reluctance motor is given by dividing the composite airgap space into two regions and solving Laplace's equation separately in them to get the potential distribution. The fundamental flux density is calculated and, hence, the direct- and quadrature-axis synchronous inductances for a polyphase reluctance machine. It is found possible to calculate the maximum torque in terms of the machine dimensions. Since the solutions are obtained for both rectangular-developed and radial diagrams, the error involved in neglecting the curvature can be determined. A numerical example is also given. The variation of reluctance power with polearc/pole-pitch ratio is calculated and found to be in close agreement with results obtained by previous authors."
"The basic principle of safety grounding for the protection of workmen must be complemented by adequate grounding devices. Because of the great importance of these devices their adequacy should be proved by tests whenever 1) their design is changed although the change supposedly is an improvement; 2) system condition changes have accumulated beyond previously established limits; and 3) the slightest doubt about the reliability of a particular design has arisen."
"The spectroscopic method of measuring relative intensities of two spectral lines has been used for determining the temperature of a plasma jet of argon gas and ac arc discharge of heavy current in air. Temperature distribution of the plasma jet was determined by using Abel's integral equation. The arc temperature of the weighted mean of the whole volume of ac arc discharge attained 35 by 103°K at 50 kA. By employing the measured electric field and temperature, a radius of arc column is calculated to be 2 cm at the same current."
"A survey of power line carrier measurement techniques and procedures was carried out across the United States and Canada in 1965. The information obtained from the survey is summarized, and, based on this information, methods of carrier measurement for good engineering practice are recommended."
"A draft of a proposed standard procedure for corona tests on oil-immersed transformers is presented and some of the problems in the development of the test procedure are discussed. The IEEE Transformers Committee has approved publicizing the proposed test method which is based on radio influence voltage (RIV) measurements utilizing a radio noise (RN) meter coupled to the winding under test through a coupling capacitor or the capacitance tap of a bushing. A special tuned circuit is used with the bushing capacitance tap method to minimize attenuation of the RIV due to the ratio of the bushing capacitances and thus increase the sensitivity of the method. Problems requiring further study include: 1) selection of test voltage values, 2) terminal circuit connections for test voltage, and 3) the actual values of RIV permissible at the test voltages."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"This index covers all technical items - papers, correspondence, reviews, etc. - that appeared in this periodical during the year, and items from previous years that were commented upon or corrected in this year. Departments and other items may also be covered if they have been judged to have archival value. The Author Index contains the primary entry for each item, listed under the first author's name. The primary entry includes the coauthors' names, the title of the paper or other item, and its location, specified by the publication abbreviation, year, month, and inclusive pagination. The Subject Index contains entries describing the item under all appropriate subject headings, plus the first author's name, the publication abbreviation, month, and year, and inclusive pages. Note that the item title is found only under the primary entry in the Author Index."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"Provides a listing of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"A method for establishing a minimum of a particular type of function which is constrained has been explored. The method named by the authors, A Parametric Equations Method, will obtain an extremum of a convex function, subject to constraints which may consist of both inequalities and equalities. Necessary mathematical proofs are given and the method is applied to two problems. In particular, the application of the method to the problem of economic dispatch has shown it to have certain advantages over the usual well-known methods."
"A digital computer program has been written which will calculate optimum long-range power schedules for a 3-reservoir system."
"A completely general and rigorous approach to the determination of electromagnetic forces between any number of conductors, each of arbitrary shape and located in an arbitrary manner in space, is developed. Neither the simple Ampère's law of force nor the modifications attempted by other recent investigators are sufficient to predict accurately the effects of heavy load currents and damaging fault currents. This inadequacy is due to the fact that the conductors deviate significantly from the straight, parallel condition assumed in most analyses. The equations developed in this paper and the associated computer program can solve for the electromagnetic forces in literally any system of current-carrying conductors and include all known previous attempts as special cases. This approach has been applied to recent designs of bundled conductor systems for extra-high-voltage transmission."
"The knowledge of maximum compressive forces acting on bundle conductor spacers under fault conditions is essential to the rational design of their structural strength. The results of a wide investigation carried out both theoretically and experimentally are shown; relationships are stated which permit the computation of maximum forces in terms of all the involved line parameters and for any given fault current and duration."
"The approximate corona-starting relation for concentric cylinders Ec/δ = A + B/√rδ, long established at lower gas densities, has been checked in air to δ = 35 over the respective ranges of inner and outer cylinder diameters of 0.0178 to 0.635 cm and 4.72 to 15.40 cm (Ec = corona-starting field at surface of inner electrode; r = radius of inner electrode; δ = gas density relative to atmospheric; A, B = constants). The formula holds for both polarities as long as 1) the critical density beyond which spark-over occurs without antecedent corona is not exceeded and 2) a modified definition of corona starting is used for the negative discharge. Some peculiarities of high-δ corona are noted, including the marked effect of polarity on the reproducibility of Ec data and, under certain conditions, the appearance below Ec of a current of the same order of magnitude as normal corona current."
"Application of the vibration decay test to transmission line conductors provides a simple method of evaluating conductor self-damping on laboratory spans. Although special recording methods are not necessary, logarithmic response recorders simplify the data reduction. The procedure can be used to investigate the effects of stringing tension, external damping, and conductor history on conductor self-damping. The prime advantage of the decrement procedure is its simplicity and the ease of data reduction."
"The processes leading to a spark breakdown or corona discharge are discussed very briefly. A quantitative breakdown criterion for use in high-voltage design is derived by which spark breakdown or corona starting voltages in nonuniform fields can be calculated. The criterion is applied to the sphere gap, and it is shown how it can give a very detailed and accurate description of known breakdown characteristics."
"Electric utilities are striving to improve the appearance of distribution lines and simultaneously reduce lightning outages. Unfortunately, many suggested departures from crossarm construction that improve appearance reduce the impulse insulation strength of the lines, causing more, rather than fewer, tripouts."
"The detrimental effects of moisture migration in soils on the ampacity of buried cable systems is an old fact recognized by cable engineers. Yet, no direct method to take this phenomenon into consideration has been available in the past to determine the proper ratings of power cables. The effects of soil moisture content on the variation of the thermal resistivity of the soil are discussed and equations established to determine the effective thermal resistivity when moisture migration has occurred and a final steady state has been reached."
"A new high-voltage (HV) continuous-tape insulation impregnated with a synthetic resin has been developed for use in stator windings of large machines. The development work behind the construction and processing of the new insulation is described. The product is compared with well-known insulations with respect to electrical, mechanical, and thermal properties. Results are presented from special investigations of the discharge endurance of the insulation, its heat-transfer properties, and its ability to withstand the mechanical stresses occurring in service."
"A combination of energy and force concepts are applied to a study of several aspects of the contact bounce phenomenon. Energy dissipation at the contact interface is studied by quasistatic and dynamic techniques. Both work hardening and deformation result in a progressive reduction in the energy dissipating properties of common contact metals. The significant effect of the support structure upon bounce is analyzed by means of simple models leading to criteria for the minimization of contact bounce duration."
"The general problem of skin effect in conductors of arbitrary shape may be formulated as a partial differential equation in the magnetic vector potential and a set of integral conditions on the field. Such systems of equations are not analytically easily tractable, but may be solved by constructing a resistive-capacitive analog network of infinite extent. This paper describes a method of mapping such an infinite network onto two finite networks by means of a simple conformal transformation. With a suitable choice of network size and parameter values, solution of skin and proximity effect problems is then possible to any desired accuracy. A network suitable for a certain class of problems is described, and skin effect resistance ratios obtained from the analog compared with experimental data. Excellent agreement results within the design limits of the analog. Current distribution within any given conductor, or among a set of conductors, is directly measurable by this method, and is illustrated by sample results."
"THIS IS A progress report on the development of tests which may be desired to demonstrate the switching surge insulation strength at the line terminals of oil-insulated power transformers. The publication of this report for study and general information was requested by the Transformers Committee of the IEEE."
"In most high-voltage switchyards, basic grounding systems are formed by a grid of horizontally buried conductors. A series of scale model tests in an electrolytic tank have been performed and charts are developed with the use of which percentage mesh potential in a high-voltage grounding grid, formed of square meshes, can be determined. The ranges of parameters are those usually encountered in practice. The results are compared with those obtained with the use of the approximate formula suggested by the AIEE Committee. The experimental results are quite close to those obtained with the use of the approximate formula."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"A method is suggested to detect directly the deionization margin angle and to prevent the commutation failure of an inverter. The deionization margin angle is detected by anode- cathode voltage of a valve and ac phase voltage. The method to prevent the commutation failure, namely the one to hold the critical deionization angle keeps a necessary deionization angle for the alternating voltage drop, thus enabling safer valve operation."
"A method of automatic frequency ratio control (AFC) by a dc system is suggested. This control also provides a tie line bias control action (TBC) in ac-dc systems, and can cooperate with the AFC and TBC in ac systems. The operating principle is that the frequency deviations of two ac systems are detected and its controller adjusts the dc power for constant frequency control. A logic circuit is provided in the controller to give the signals to regulate the governors of the generators. By the proper adjustment of the sensitivity of dc power, the dead band of frequency deviations, and the regulation sensitivity of the governors, the frequency control in the ac-dc system can be acheived quite satisfactorily."
"Methods of measurement and analysis of components of a five-mile extra-high-voltage direct-current test line and associated facilities are described. This paper presents new methods of recording and analyzing data secured over a long period of time concerning radio influence, corona loss, insulator leakage, and surge currents. Information secured from these recordings and analysis will be important to the transmission engineer in designing the most economical high-quality EHV dc transmission line."
"This is the first report to the industry on radio influence (RI) and corona loss performance of the BPA 1100-kV (±550-kV bipolar) HV dc test line. The report covers bipolar and monopolar tests between December 1963 and December 1964 on three different line configurations. Large diameter single and twin conductor configurations designed for ±375-500-kV operation comprised the line sections. Line lengths from 1.3 to 4.2 miles were investigated. Influence of voltage, pole spacing, measuring frequency, and weather were studied."
"The effects of wind on corona discharges from HV dc transmission lines were studied using two laboratory models. One model was used for studying the corona vs. wind characteristics of discrete metal projections from smooth conductors, while the other dealt with corona on stranded conductors. The investigation encompassed both 2-conductor and conductor-to-plane configurations at wind speeds up to 50 miles per hour. It was found that both corona loss and radio-influence voltages (RIV) were sensitive to wind in the 2-conductor configuration but not in the conductor-to- plane configuration. The results are correlated with previous findings and with the theories of corona discharges."
"For the design and sensitivity setting of dc line earth fault protection of HV dc transmission lines it is necessary to know the properties of a free burning dc arc. On a dc line such an arc is most probably initiated by an atmospheric over-voltage. The most important properties of the arc are the arc voltage and the deionization time."
"The first problem which arises concerning dc cables is determination of the gradient distribution within the insulation. It is shown that the dielectric absorption phenomena may be neglected, for they give only a space gradient distortion at the scale of a paper fiber, which does not seem to have an effect upon the practical dielectric strength of an insulation. Then, the gradient distribution is investigated as a function of the conductivity of the insulator, which varies with temperature and gradient. Consequently, the heating of the conductor tends to shift the maximum stress from the inner to the outer layers of the insulation, while the voltage increase tends to make the stress uniform. The dc breakdown gradients calculated according to the stated laws lead to a value of dielectric strength practically equal to that obtained during impulse tests, except for high temperatures. A sudden decrease of the dc dielectric strength is then observed, which is attributed to the thermal instability caused by the increase of the losses in the insulator."
"In the paper entitled \"Variable Soil Thermal Resistivity - Steady-State Analysis,\" by J.V. Schmill, which appeared on pp. 215-223 of the February 1967 issue of this TRANSACTIONS, Fig. 6 of the discussion by A.F. Baljet appeared reversed in a number of copies of the issue."
"In dc cables the resistivity of the insulation is a very important parameter, as it determines the stress distribution and the power losses in the insulation. This paper gives the results of several tests on plane capacitors, from which the steady-state resistivity of four different kinds of paper and impregnants appear to be almost identical from this point of view. The transient behavior of one of the dielectrics is also shown, giving the current density as a function of time after the application of a direct voltage, for different temperatures and stresses."
"The extension of metal-clad switchgear with oilless power circuit breakers to the higher voltages of 23 kV and 34.5 kV has awaited the development of a suitable circuit breaker unit. Prompted by the need of Duquesne Light Company for such 23-kV equipment for their new Oakland substation, the breakers described in this article were designed and developed. As a result, indoor and outdoor metal-clad switchgear, with all of their well- known advantages, are now available for both voltage ratings up to a 1500-MVA interrupting rating and for continuous current ratings of 1200 and 3000 amperes."
"In the electric power industry, much effort has been expended in the development of oilless circuit breakers, particularly for use in extra high voltage (EHV) systems. This paper describes a new line of HV and EHV air blast circuit breakers having a 2-cycle interrupting time rating, and an operating pressure of 370 psi. The breakers utilize separate power interrupting and circuit isolation modules to permit maximum flexibility in building breakers with a variety of interrupting ratings at various voltage levels, from the HV classes up to 550 and 765 kV and above."
"Successful operating experience with air blast circuit breakers has led to the extension of these designs to meet the requirements of extra high voltage (EHV) systems 345 kV and above, with increased interest in the quality of air being supplied for pneumatic operation, air blast interruption, and as a dielectric medium."
"Tests at 100°C, where large amounts of water vapor can be present in air, indicate that the effect of water vapor on sparking voltage depends on the type of sparking. In the relatively uniform field between sphere gaps the sparking voltage is found to increase by about 6 percent when the water vapor content of air is increased from 0 to 5 percent by volume. However this sparking voltage increases by only an additional 5 percent (to 11 percent) when the water vapor content is increased from 5 to 25 percent. However sparkover voltage of a one-inch gap in a non-uniform field and resulting from successive pulsed discharges shows a slighty smaller increase (5 percent) when the water vapor content is increased from 0 to 5 percent but doubles when the water vapor content is increased from 5 to 25 percent."
"The paths of particles during electrostatic precipitation were photographed using a low-power, long focal length microscope. The illumination was periodically interrupted so that the path of a particle appears as a series of dashes. The velocity of the particle at any portion of its path can be computed from the length of the corresponding dash. The particles, studies ranged from 40 to 200 μm diameter. Contrary to the assumptions that have usually been made in theoretical treatments of precipitation, impact phenomena at the surface appear to be very important, particularly for particles over 100 μm. Large particles may rebound without losing their negative charge or they may knock off agglomerations of previously deposited dust which have a positive charge and so are accelerated away from the collecting electrode. When back ionization occurs the paths of particles become quite irregular. Occasionally particles are observed to reverse their charge in a few milliseconds indicating that there are small regions of quite high density of positive ions."
"Although the overall performance record of aerial spacer cable on the Public Service Electric and Gas Company system has been excellent, the number of failures caused by lightning appears to be disproportionately high. To determine the optimum design criteria of this type of distribution system, a program of laboratory impulse tests was established. This paper presents the results of the laboratory tests, with volt-time curves for various components of the spacer cable system. This study is one of several performed by the Public Service Electric and Gas Company."
"Some insulating oils when subjected to high-voltage stress undergo chemical changes that result in the formation of various gases. Since there are different insulating oils available to users that are made by various finishing techniques resulting in oils of significantly varied composition, a study of a range of these materials was made to show if they produced different amounts or types of gases. The evolution of gases from oils in atmospheres of hydrogen and nitrogen were studied when the stressing voltage and temperature were varied over reasonable ranges."
"Power plant response to load changes is a continuing subject of interest to operating management in power systems. This paper is a two-part report of a survey on power plant response made by an IEEE Working Group. Part I covers results and analyses of answers to questions on system load characteristics and operating practices. Part II covers results and analyses to answers on prime mover characteristics. A number of curves, scatter plots, and bar charts are presented showing the results of the survey by various size and type groupings. Appendixes I and II, giving the questionnaire and the tabulated summary of questionnaire replies from the completed replies of 128 systems, are not included.1"
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"The suitability of the newly developed polyethylene- insulated sodium conductor for use in electrical power cables was evaluated electrically and mechanically. Polyethylene-insulated sodium conductors are shown to lend themselves to a wide range of constructions manufactured on standard cable-fabricating equipment. Because of the plastic nature of metallic sodium, neither conductor stranding, nor helical assembly in the case of multi- conductor cables, is required for flexibility."
"This paper will outline the EHV relaying to be used for the 500 kV lines in the southern branch of SCEC system involving the Mississippi Power and Light Company, Louisiana Power and Light Company, Gulf States Utilities Company, and Central Louisiana Electric Company. An attempt will be made to point out some of the problem areas and how they affected the selection of the relaying."
"This paper describes a computerized method of calculating unbalanced load flow or fault currents on multi-grounded radial distribution circuits. It was developed by engineers of the Baltimore Gas and Electric Company, and is now being used in operating and expanding their distribution system. The basic concept employed is that the electrical characteristics of any portion of an unbalanced 3-phase circuit can be represented by a 6-element wye-delta network. An operating program that can accommodate up to 750 circuit branches has been written for the IBM 7094 computer."
"A comparison between the four common types of conventional load tap changing (Itc) mechanisms for use on power transformers and the introduction of a new mechanism using vacuum interrupters for the arcing function is presented. Design parameters for the present and new equipment are discussed along with an understanding of some new problems associated with operating speeds, interrupter life, and voltage transients. The advantages for both the manufacturer and the user of load tap changing, using vacuum interrupters, are identified. These include increased life, smaller size, fewer inspections and servicings, and fewer equipment types."
"This paper discusses the electrical characteristics of series gaps used in power switching equipment. The dielectric strength of the series gap for 60-cycle, impulse, and switching surge voltages is discussed and curves are included of the results for gaps of dimensions from 44 to 139 inches. The ability to isolate two circuits and maintain a minimum of disturbance on one circuit when voltage transients occur on the other is discussed. Further discussion includes the potential of the floating blade and the effect of a grounded plane near the floating blade on the series gap strength and the insulator dielectric strength."
"Stabilization of the initial interconnection across Utah and Arizona between the Northwest and Southwest power systems has been aided by damping torques generated through special control of a unit in Grand Coulee powerplant in Washington. The special control is derived from local frequency, using the phase advance of the first derivative to offset the inherent lags of the hydro unit. The scheme is proving capable in augmenting the stabilizing effort from the limited amount of suitable fast response steam capacity available."
"The linear governing equations of L. M. Hovey are extended to describe the major nonlinearities of a hydro electric generating set. The resultant nonlinear governing model can be used to simulate the small and large signal transient response of an isolated generating set under any loading condition, and comparisons of such simulations with test results are given. The analysis of the paper demonstrates that Hovey's method of calculating temporary droop from a closed dashpot step response transient is inaccurate, and a corrected method is presented."
"In this paper, the philosophy pertaining to the design of the 500-kV towers is outlined, starting with the economic studies to determine conductor type and size, phase spacing, insulator arrangement, span length, and loading. Particular attention is given to a discussion of unbalanced ice loading as well as realistic summertime wind loading."
"This paper describes an induction motor which has an additional dc field on the shaft. The dc field is free to rotate inside an independently rotating squirrel cage and it serves the purpose of improving the input power factor. The performance equations are derived, steady-state conditions discussed, and test data presented."
"The development of solid-state frequency converters or inverters makes the induction motor a possible machine for the final drive of a position control system, especially in power sizes. This paper analyzes the transient behavior of induction motors under conditions of changing supply frequency. The analysis is achieved by considering the squirrel cage as a 2-coil rotor and it is shown that this representation is exact. This model enables a simple simulator to be built and effects of rotor time constant and inertia can be studied with relative ease."
"As voltage of electrical transmission systems increases, live line maintenance by the barehand method becomes increasingly necessary to meet the requirements of system reliability. Of more importance is its value to the workman in permitting him to use power and hand tools without the strain which would be encountered with the long, heavy, hot line tools required at these voltages. Protection of the workman from exposure to high-voltage gradients and body currents is easily attained through Faraday cage-type shielding, as has been proved by an extensive test program described in this and companion papers. This paper develops a method of predicting voltage gradients and body currents utilizing both analytical and numerical techniques in the solution of Laplace's equation. The results are compared with field measurements and excellent agreement is obtained. The method described can therefore be used to predict both currents and gradients for new designs and voltage levels as well as for existing designs and voltages."
"Several devices are described that have been used recently in studying electric currents induced by 60-Hz electric fields in the bodies of linemen working on energized power lines using both the conventional hot stick method and the barehand method. These devices include: 1) the gradient meter, used to measure the intensity of electric fields impinging on different areas of the lineman's body, 2) the icosahedron, used to demonstrate that total body current is the summation of unit area charging currents resulting from the electric field impinging on unit areas over the entire body, and 3) the dipole, used to measure the magnitude of electric currents flowing in an isolated conducting body located in an electric field. Typical measurements obtained with each of these devices are included."
"Twenty-two male mice were exposed to a 60-Hz ac electric field by placing them, in cages, between parallel plates energized to create a field, initially unperturbed, of 4 kV/in. In the course of 10½ months, each animal had an accumulated exposure time of nearly 1500 hours. These animals, and a parallel control group (essentially identically handled but receiving no exposure to electric fields), were repeatedly bred and observed to determine whether there were any effects, harmful or beneficial, as a result of the exposure."
"This paper covers an investigation of the effects of HV 60-Hz ac fields on human beings. Experimental results of the intensity of the electric fields to which linemen are subjected when doing maintenance work on energized HV lines are presented. The protection offered by Faraday screens is discussed. The results of a series of physiological examinations that were carried out on 11 linemen, some of whom used conventional hot stick methods and others worked barehanded from an aerial bucket connected to an energized conductor, are presented. The examinations, which extended over a 42-month period, were conducted by members of the staff of The Johns Hopkins Hospital, Baltimore, Md."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"This page or pages intentionally left blank."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"Considerations necessary for the design of a total control system for the improvement of the reliability of the generation transmission system are discussed. The control system is made of automatic functions, human participation, and an information system."
"The design of two new 500-kV substations has been completed and is discussed in this paper. The discussion of the design covers first a description of the 500-kV grid of transmission lines and substations that will serve as a support for the existing 220-kV system. Following the description of the new system is a discussion of the substation design criteria. The areas covered are insulation coordination, line and bus arrangement, bus conductor selection, and equipment requirements. The paper concludes with a description of the stations."
"The Otter Tail Power Company plans to convert a 90-mile section of 115-kV wood-pole transmission line to 230 kV. This paper describes the electrical and structural analysis upon which final selection of the uprated design was based."
"The placing in operation of transmission lines of 345 kV and higher made it desirable to update previous reports on transmission line operation. Information on EHV transmission lines was obtained from operating companies and correlations were attempted between design characteristics and operating results. A wealth of information was obtained, sorted out, and is presented in tabular form and should be of value to transmission line designers and operators and system planners."
"Field tests of a new high pass coupling network for power line carrier operation are discussed. The tests pointed out several weaknesses in the coupling system as originally designed and installed. Redesign of coupling units and installation of auxiliary capacitors on the substation bus improved the attenuation characteristics and low-frequency cut-off point of the networks, resulting in satisfactory operation. Results of field test measurements are shown for the original and for the modified systems."
"Gas filled dry-type transformers after three years of service were checked for evidence of corona. The C2F6 was found to be better than 96 percent pure and no evidence of corona was found."
"The problems associated with the use of high-voltage heavily loaded underground cables in Great Britain are reviewed. These installations are becoming necessary because of the rapidly increasing demand for electric energy and where way leaves for overhead lines become impracticable. A major aspect of this situation is the effective control of the thermal environment, which requires that the thermal resistivity of the soil be maintained at as low a value as possible. Details are given of the disappointing results obtained from investigations of the use of sands as a controlled backfill, especially relative to composition and compaction."
"Underground power transmission lines of 60 kV and over now in use in Japan are mostly oil-filled (OF) cables. In particular, the use of 140-kV OF cable has been sharply increasing of late. The cable is liable to various kinds of mechanical damage (excluding mechanical fatigue phenomena), some of which are considered to affect adversely its performance. Therefore, by subjecting a 140-kV single-core OF cable, as a representative cable, to various kinds of mechanical damage, the kinds and degree of damage done was studied and experiments made to ascertain the relationship between possible damage to the cable and its electrical properties."
"Forty 3-conductor cables for 12-kV service were subjected to stability studies in laboratory aging tests and/or in experimental service operation. The main purpose for this was the determination of 1) difference between the stability of shielded and of belted cables, 2) minimum safe insulation thickness for shielded cables, and 3) maximum permissible temperatures for normal and emergency operation. The results showed superiority of shielded cables and marked effects of insulation thickness and temperatures upon stability."
"Reasons for the selection and development of low pressure oil-filled 400-kV cable systems in Great Britain are discussed, and factors such as the limited size of the transmission area, thermal requirements, installation problems, and test procedures and results are described. Underground cable systems are dealt with in detail."
"The variations of the contact resistance and temperature distribution in the vicinity of an electric contact are shown for different types of right-circular conicoid contacts. The limiting cases of such contact geometry are the circle and the hemisphere. The paper shows how the resistance and temperature-distribution are relatively affected by the conception of a simplified geometric shape for the contact area. To determine the effect of the elongation of an area on the contact resistance, new form-factor curves are given which are applicable for all contact materials, pressures, and temperatures. Graphs are also given showing the relation between the maximum temperature and the interface temperature in various bimetal contacts which are in common use."
"Wear tests were conducted on silver-graphite brushes sliding against copper slip rings in order to determine moisture levels below which the brushes would dust (wear rapidly). It was found that the brushes would not dust in carbon dioxide at the lowest attainable moisture concentration of 9 to 10 ppm, whereas critical moisture levels were found for the other three gases. The order of increasing moisture dependence for prevention of dusting was as follows: carbon dioxide, air, helium, and nitrogen. Savage's work on graphite adsorptive properties provides the basis for an explanation of these results."
"A dynamic model of a drum-type electric utility boiler, which is suitable for use in designing and evaluating a multivariable controller, is described. State-space matrix equations are used in making the model. Unique iterative methods are developed for obtaining accurate steady-state profiles of the superheater and waterwall sections. Constants for the dynamic model are derived using these profiles. An original superheater model provides the transient response of steam temperature, pressure, enthalpy, and mass flow rate."
"The dynamic response of a bus bar subjected to a suddenly applied fault current has been determined by means of a mathematical model. The theoretical response was in good agreement with experimental results obtained with a small-scale bus-bar model. This theoretical technique permits the dynamic response of any bus-bar system to be predicted for any fault current."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"This paper presents the results of an insulation coordination study for the 500-kV Fort Martin and Yukon stations of the Allegheny Power System. The station parameters determined 1) lightning arrester rating, 2) transformer, circuit breaker, disconnecting switch, and bus support BILs, 3) minimum electrical clearances, and 4) number and location of lightning arresters."
"A method has been developed to predict the probability of a double circuit outage on double circuit lines. Traveling wave techniques are used to account for nonlinearities such as corona, attenuation, and phase conductor flashover as its time iterative approach enables alteration of design parameters at each time increment. A geometrical model technique, involving comparison of lightning voltages measured on the models with those obtained from linear traveling wave calculations, enables realistic estimation of the value ascribed to tower surge impedance, an important parameter in the calculations."
"A high-frequency noise voltage in a faulty transmission line generated by arcing fault is described. Many artificial arcing fault tests were conducted to clarify the features of this noise voltage, and field investigations were conducted to record the noise voltage generated by actual lightning faults. The noise voltage varies according to the value of fault current, types of fault, and time interval after the occurrence of the fault. A theoretical analysis of the method for calculating this impulse noise voltage is also presented."
"The design and testing of high-voltage shunt reactors is discussed. The advantages of a gapped-core construction employing radial laminated limb sections with a relatively small number of air gaps, resulting in a simple mechanical construction, are described. A comparison is made between testing methods for transformers and reactors, special attention being paid to test power, loss measurement, measuring accuracy, and special tests. A bridge method for loss measurements is described. Among the various dielectric tests discussed, particular mention is made of the induced voltage test and its unrealistic representation of actual service conditions. It is suggested that this test be replaced by one utilizing a lightly damped oscillation produced by an impulse generator. The need for vibration measurements as a check on mechanical behavior is stressed."
"Single suspension insulator units of several types as well as multi-unit strings were studied in a large refrigerated chamber. Rime ice of various densities was deposited on these insulators. The increase of leakage currents, the reduction of flashover voltages, and the alteration of voltage distributions along insulator strings caused by the presence of the ice were measured. The effects of various protective coatings on the insulator performance were examined. The process of insulator flashover under rime ice is compared with that under the usual types of industrial and marine pollution at temperatures above freezing point."
"The switching surge insulation level of steel tower and wood pole transmission lines operating at system voltage levels of 115 through 500 kV are compared with the switching surge magnitudes that can occur on these systems. High-side and low-side switching with and without surge suppression resistors is considered. The results indicate that at 345 kV and above surge suppression resistors should be used, while below 345 kV these resistors cannot, in general, be justified."
"A unified method of designing electrical machines is presented, utilizing the capabilities of modern, high-speed digital computers. The objective is to meet all performance requirements at minimum cost. The general approach is described by means of two examples, a program for design of power transformers and a program for design of hydroelectric generators."
"Self-excitation is proved to be a simple, reliable, and theoretically economical method for increasing the range of stable operation in a synchronous generator with particular reference to large turbine generators. When the excitation is realized following some general criteria derived in this paper, much greater stability is achieved than with conventional systems. This liberates the design of the generator itself from the limitations normally imposed by stability considerations. A specific example shows that the excitation method described here theoretically allows for a 26 percent increase in power output for a given size generating unit."
"An all-digital simulation of an induction machine and its associated control system is described. The simulation is suitable for analyzing operation either from a constant frequency, constant voltage supply, or analyzing a complete control loop with a variable frequency power source. The computer program which is described calculates both the transient and steady-state performance of the machine from its equivalent circuit constants. The principal element in the program is a differential equation solving algorithm using a predictor-corrector method. This predictor-corrector technique is relatively easy to program and is suitable for use with a medium size digital computer. A discussion of the various steps in the program as well as an example of an application of the program are given."
"The paper demonstrates how the differential principle may be used to measure stray load losses in squirrel-cage induction motors under full-load conditions, while only a fraction of full-load power is drawn from the supply. A full analysis together with the test results for a mechanical differential are included in this paper and, in addition, the results obtained by using an electrical differential are given, showing the close correlation between the measurements obtained from these two types of differential device. The particular advantages of each arrangement are discussed, and it is concluded that the mechanical differential is likely to prove the more suitable for large-scale industrial use."
"The phase-angle meter is an instrument that can be of considerable value to industry. It is simple to use, but there is a problem in understanding its readings. This paper endeavors to impart an understanding of its use and to clarify interpretation of results obtained."
"The Piecewise Method of solution, better known as Diakoptics, is a procedure for solving large-scale system problems by tearing or decomposing. The problems to be analyzed seem to grow at a very rapid pace. Neither the increased computer speeds nor the computer core storages seem to keep up with the size and complexity of the problems to be solved. Diakoptics appears to be a good tool with which to supplement the computer, or computers, to solve large-scale system problems."
"The recently proposed normal mode theory of current flow in straight, long conductors is applied to nonmagnetic, isolated, rectangular bars of various side ratios. Sufficient modal parameters have been computed to permit families of conductor resistance ratio and inductance variation curves to be given. These curves may be used to estimate the alternating current parameters of nearly any rectangular conductor with an accuracy of about 0.5 percent for the resistance, and about one nanohenry per meter for inductance."
"The Working Group on Project 63.2 of the Transmission Substations Subcommittee of the IEEE Substations Committee has prepared a guide for welding aluminum in substations. This paper presents a final report on the work, which covers the many unique properties of aluminum with respect to welding. Recommendations are made relative to the choice of welding methods and techniques, and selection of materials. Evaluations are presented on the chemical and physical properties of materials, on welder qualification and evaluation, safety, and preparation of joints."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"This page or pages intentionally left blank."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"This paper records the development of a synchronous machine model in the mathematical form required by most modem automatic control theorems. The model is based on a new expression for the constraint imposed on the machine by a general balanced 3-phase tee-form transmission system consisting of a step-up transformer, a shunt load, and a transmission line terminating at a bus of known voltage."
"The second method of Liapunov is used to investigate the optimum settings of certain governor and voltage regulator parameters of interconnected hydro-electric generating sets. The paper considers a 2-machine system with a simplified tie line representation, and a one-machine system including a detailed model of the generator and its interconnection to an infinite bus."
"A direct current homopolar machine with liquid metal contacts can achieve high power density and efficiency. The analysis of a simple model of such a machine shows that a power density of several horsepower per pound at 90 percent efficiency is possible. The results of a design study of an experimental 280-pound 250- horsepower homopolar automotive transmission showed a 90 percent efficiency over a useful operating range. Problems arising during testing limited the efficiency to 75 percent."
"This paper presents the results of a study the objective of which was the high-speed solution of the differential equations characterizing induction motors. It was found possible to reduce the time required for the solution by a factor of about ten with no loss of accuracy. Details of two sample problems and the techniques used are presented."
"A stability study of a reluctance-synchronous machine (synchronous-induction machine) is performed by applying the Nyquist stability criterion to the equations which describe the behavior of the machine during small displacements about a steady- state operating point. This investigation reveals that machine instability can occur at low speeds (low frequencies) even though balanced, constant amplitude, sinusoidal voltages are applied to the stator terminals. Regions of machine instability are established from the results of a digital computer study. The results of an analog computer study are included to illustrate the modes of operation which occur within these regions. Also, regions of instability for different values of system parameters are given and discussed."
"In this and its companion paper, the performance of the polyphase induction motor with slitted ferromagnetic rotor is presented. Experimental studies covered the influence of physical dimensions of slits and their number on the rotor performance, effects of inserting a conducting, nonmagnetic material like copper in the slits, and the performance of these rotors terminated with and without copper end rings. The conclusions drawn are amply supported by the results of a careful measurement of flux penetration at different depths beneath the rotor surface. In addition, a slipmeter, an unique device with a high sensitivity at low slip regions, used for a quick and direct measurement of slip, is described. The authors believe it is likely to find extensive application in induction machine test ng."
"This paper attempts the analysis of the polyphase induction machine with a slitted ferromagnetic rotor using Maxwell's field equations and concepts of equivalent permeabilities and resistivities. The analysis satisfactorily accounts for 1) physical dimensions of the slits and their number, 2) the provision of a nonmagnetic conductor, like copper in the slits, and the nature of rotor end terminations."
"Generator capability curves, used by operating personnel in the loading of generators, are usually based upon a generator synchronous reactance equal to 1/SCR. Use of this reactance partially corrects for the effects of saturation and, while resulting in a reactive capability in error by less than 1.3 percent, produces a field excitation requirement as much as 3.8 percent lower than actual requirements. The effect of saturation, expressed by the saturation factor K, and Kingsley's equation for saturated synchronous reactance, results in capability curves and excitation requirements which agree with test data."
"This paper attempts to present the theoretical foundations of different methods of solution developed for load flow problems in a didactic form. The load flow problem is first defined. A classification of different methods of solution is proposed. This classification consists of three groups: nodal admittance, variational, and nodal impedance matrix methods. Convergence characteristics of several methods programmed by the authors are presented, using the example system given by Ward and Hale. Finally, criteria for comparison of different methods and possible future developments are presented."
"The ability to calculate the dynamic stability limits of synchronous machines is of increasing importance today as generation and transmission equipment are being applied with higher reactances and correspondingly lower stability margins. This paper describes a digital computer program which enables the rapid computation of dynamic stability limits for a single machine connected to an infinite receiving system through a transmission line. Effects of excitation and prime mover power controls are included making the program a valuable tool for the equipment designer. Typical results illustrate the effect of terminal voltage, transmission line reactance, and machine inertia on the stability limits. The concept of damping ratio as an index to relative stability is discussed and illustrated. Also shown are the effects of neglecting saturation and other second-order effects on the calculation of dynamic stability."
"The development and characterization of a new polyethylene insulated sodium conductor are described. The resistivity, specific gravity, and cost of sodium are compared to corresponding properties of copper and aluminum. While the alkali and alkaline earth metals have relatively good electrical conductivity, sodium was chosen because of its light weight, low cost, and availability. Physical properties of the polyethylene insulated sodium conductor were determined. Potential areas of question, such as service life, reaction of water with damaged cables, and combustion characteristics are covered in detail."
"The characteristics of insulated sodium conductor required the development of a new type of connector and a new installation technique. The problems involved making stable electrical contact to the sodium, sealing against chemical attack, installation with a minimum exposure of sodium, securely gripping the insulation, effects of the melting point of sodium, and temperature limitations of the insulation."
"The use of sodium conductor cable presents an opportunity for reduction in cost of cable for underground residential distribution systems. In order to evaluate its usage a direct buried test installation was made involving both 15-kV and 600-volt sodium cable. Testing the 15-kV cables consisted in load cycling, short-circuit faulting, and fault location tests. After the completion of tests on the 15-kV sodium cable, a service installation was made in a rural area west of Chicago. Load cycle tests were also made on the 600-volt sodium cable. This included an overload which resulted in the failure of the cable at the terminal. Insulation damage tests were made to determine the corrosive properties of the conductor. Fault locating tests made on the 600-volt cable, as on the 15-kV cable, showed that presently available equipment should be adequate."
"The preparation of high strength, small diameter sodium wire is discussed. A new production method consisting of simultaneous extrusion of conductor and insulation followed by high speed drawing and annealing of the composite is described. The influence of polyethylene properties and process conditions on the characteristics of the wire is shown. Resistance to damage through crushing is of particular note because the soft conductor does not act as an anvil to cut the insulation. The wire has high tensile strength, especially in the smaller sizes. Permeability to water vapor is a problem but practical means of combating it already are in use in other services. Development of reliable long life connectors is required for future applications."
"The protection of control and instrumentation cables in a high-voltage switchyard is becoming more essential as higher magnitudes of system voltage, load and fault currents, or overall power levels are handled. Concurrently with these increases in transient severity in the switchyard, a greater need is developing for more sophisticated control involving components more easily damaged by induced voltages. When the problem is recognized early enough so that proper circuit configurations and metallic sheaths can be incorporated into the initial installation, it can be solved quite effectively. Two criteria developed for control circuit protection are radial circuits where all conductors are contained within one cable (no large loops formed), and conductive sheaths of low resistance connected to the grounding grid at both ends."
"The capacity of this line is many times that of previous dc lines, and its length far exceeds that of any line, dc or ac, now existing. Lacking operating data on overhead dc lines, criteria were based largely on tests at the Bonneville Power Administration (BPA) dc test center."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"This page or pages intentionally left blank."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"Measurements are reported for the recovery of electric strength following interruption of an arc drawn in nitrogen at pressures ranging from atmospheric to 0.02 torr. These data are compared with similar results obtained for vacuum arcs. Recovery strength measurements followed a single half-cycle of sinusoidal arc current with a peak of 400 amperes. For conditions of gap length and pressure described by the Paschen curve minimum, full recovery is reached in a time less than a few micro-seconds. The voltage corresponding to full recovery is essentially determined by contacts, their separation, and ambient gas pressure."
"The purpose of this paper is to estimate the limit of the possible transmission line voltage and to clarify the mechanism of discharge in the air. Tests were performed on the switching surge flashover of long air gaps under dry conditions. The flashover voltages of the switching surge with the duration of wave front 180 μs were obtained up to 13 meters for rod-plane gaps for positive polarity. The tests were performed at the Shiobara Outdoor Laboratory."
"A series of tests, carried out by applying impulse waves simulating switching surges to air gaps with electrodes of different shapes, is described. From the test results, it has been possible to draw some important conclusions about the influence of the electrode shape and also to single out simple rules for the predetermination of the behavior of air insulation; these rules can be particularly useful for designing purposes."
"Flashover tests were conducted at the Leadville EHV Test Facility of the Public Service Company of Colorado and Project EHV at Pittsfield, Mass., to obtain comparative data to evaluate the influence of air density on switching surge and impulse flashover strength of transmission line insulation. The tests showed that negative polarity flashover voltages are greater than those of positive polarity. Therefore, positive polarity will be the critical requirement for transmission line design for switching surge duty."
"The paper deals with the characteristic impulse and switching surge voltages of high-voltage equipment which only temporarily loses its dielectric strength when flashover occurs. A test procedure suitable for determining the highest withstand voltage and the lowest flashover voltage of a test object is described, and a theoretical investigation is carried out in order to show the quality of the test procedure, and also the influence of different factors on the test result. The relation between the specified withstand voltage of a test object, as defined by IEC, and the highest withstand voltage is given some consideration. A simple method for determination of the 50-percent flashover voltage is described."
"The uncertainty of high voltage dielectric test results is emphasized. This uncertainty can be expressed by a suitable confidence limit. The best figure suggested is the standard deviation σ for all the possible results of a test. A method for the calculation of σ is reported. Four types of confidence limits are considered and values are reported on the basis of available data from Centro Elettrotecnico Sperimentale Italiano (CESI) and many other laboratories. The spread of the results is found to be higher than expected. A survey of apparent causes of the uncertainty is presented but a series of unknown factors must be assumed to justify the figures found. Examples of application indicate the usefulness of the knowledge of the confidence limits of the test results."
"The Application of a semi-empirical spark breakdown criterion is illustrated, and it is shown that it can give a very detailed analysis of known spark breakdown characteristics for the sphere gap."
"A reduction in transmission line cost was thought possible through a unified approach to line insulation system design. In this paper a mathematical model relating line performance to insulation system expenditure is analyzed and using incremental cost techniques a method for optimizing the selection of insulation system components to achieve a desired performance or reliability level is developed. The development provides an insight into the interaction of tower grounding and tower insulation in establishing the reliability of a line. A practical application of the technique developed is demonstrated in the companion paper."
"An attempt has been made to obtain an optimum insulation system which fulfills all APS requirements. The three primary areas which dictate insulation design limits are normal frequency voltages and contamination, switching surges, and lightning. Contamination limits were established by an extrapolation of operating experience at other voltage levels. The switching surge limits were established by miniature system studies coupled with experience gained in laboratory and field tests. The lightning performance was calculated using accepted methods and optimum improvement was obtained by using an incremental cost method to evaluate the cost of improved grounding, increased numbers of insulators, and better shielding angles. The respective design limits were coordinated into a final design."
"The universal method of voltage transformation from EHV levels to lower voltage systems is through the use of the autotransformer. The characteristic of the autotransformer is profoundly influenced by the tertiary winding or the lack of it. This paper discusses the influence of the tertiary winding and its placement, fault magnitude and short circuit duty, autotransformer loading, overexcitation, protection of unloaded tertiaries, loading of paralleled autotransformers, and the use of single-phase units while presenting a circuit for studying unequal impedances in paralleled banks."
"Power system studies involving economics, stability, short circuits, load flows, etc., require a knowledge of transmission line characteristics. Traditionally, these characteristics have been determined either by field tests or by mathematical computations. The construction of a 118-mile bundled EHV line between Johnsonville and Memphis, Tenn., afforded a much needed opportunity to compare tested line characteristic values against digitally computed values. The comparison is of industry interest because of the increasing use of digital computers for such calculations."
"Known sources (gaps) of radio noise (RI) generation were applied to a transmission line close to a station and the resultant transmission line RI levels were monitored. Measurements are in good agreement with calculated values. Measurements of station impedance were made. RI gaps were found to be stable and operated as constant current generators over a wide range of load impedance."
"Probabilistic principles are applied to predicting the transmission system flashover rate caused by switching operations by combining results of laboratory tests on component insulation structures with system overvoltage probability distributions. A piecewise normal method is developed, applicable when statistical dependence of insulation structure flashover and system over- voltage generation cannot be described by standard normal distributions over the entire specified range of voltages. Results are obtained for large numbers of insulation structures in parallel and, by appropriately synthesizing the described sub-systems, entire transmission systems can be analyzed. The effect of voltage limiting devices, such as arresters, has been studied and their effect on system performance can be included in the analysis."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"An investigation into the designs and current ratings of oil impregnated paper insulated cables for various direct voltage ratings and impulse withstand levels is described. Published information on the temperature and stress coefficients of resistivity is reviewed. Methods of calculation of the stress distribution are outlined. With the aid of a digital computer, data including the maximum screen stress at various maximum conductor temperatures have been obtained for a range of conductor sizes."
"Cable engineers have recognized for many years that losses which occur in the steel pipe of pipe cable systems appreciably increase ac resistance and greatly reduce possible ampacity of such systems. Nonmagnetic pipes did not offer a practical solution to the problem since available materials contributed essentially the same degree of loss to the system as steel pipes. Hence, from time to time, engineers have focused their attention on nonmetallic pipes as a means of reducing losses. This work shows that one of three plastic pipes examined by the authors effectively stopped the entrance of moisture and caused no deterioration of the cable or pipe oil. Therefore, from a technical standpoint, it provided an effective enclosure for pipe cable. However, the cost of such pipes is still too high to make them economically feasible."
"This paper summarizes the results of an 18-month thermal test program conducted jointly by the Arizona Public Service Company and the General Electric Company to investigate thermal characteristics of soil and performance of underground equipment in the Phoenix area. The results presented include earth ambient temperatures at various depths over an annual cycle, earth thermal resistivity measurements by steady-state and transient methods, performance of direct burial and vault installation of capacitors, performance of a directly buried, 25-kVA, pole-type distribution transformer, and temperature rise of simulated cables."
"General studies have been made on the analog computer to determine the maximum permissible cable lengths with which equipment can be protected by lightning arresters at only the line-cable junction. This paper presents arrester application tables derived from the computer results and directed to underground residential distribution systems."
"In service, a transformer will be subjected throughout its life to three different types of voltages. These are: power frequency, switching surge, and impulse voltages. Recent computer studies and field investigations of EHV systems have provided data on the magnitudes and durations of these voltages. Laboratory tests and factory tests of transformer insulator structures have provided new data on performance. Impulse test levels have been defined for many years. Modern lightning arresters can be selected to provide adequate protection against switching surges."
"The calculated thermal life expectancy of distribution transformers is used by the Southern California Edison Company as part of an evaluation program to develop a comparative basis for the economic purchase of annual transformer requirements. The test procedure utilized in accelerating the thermal aging of the transformers, the pre-test measurements, the test measurements, and the mathematical derivation of the transformer aging rate as demonstrated by its performance on the accelerated test are described. In addition to the test procedure, a simulated residential loading schedule has been developed and is used to calculate the expected life of each test transformer. A tabulation is used to demonstrate how the calculations are made and to provide a comparison of the life expectancy of two typical transformers."
"The application of dimensional analysis to measurements made on cold rolled electrical steels yields empirical equations relating ac core losses to hysteresis losses and other factors. As frequency increases from low values, three different patterns of loss variation occur because of increasing skin effect. Loss measurements indicate that samples with lower hysteresis losses and thinner gauges have relatively larger magnetic domains. The hysteresis losses of well-annealed samples are found to depend primarily on grain sizes and orientations. The steels investigated have only incidental amounts of grain orientation."
"A procedure is given which utilizes the digital computer to solve eddy current loss and hysteresis loss problems. The relationship between flux density and magnetic intensity is taken from the actual magnetization curve and major hysteresis loop, thus eliminating the approximations employed in most previous investigations. The nonlinear partial differential equations are replaced by finite difference equations and solved by numerical methods on an IBM 7090 digital computer."
"The results of tests using a full-scale transmission line for the insulation design of the first 500-kV transmission line in Japan (the Boso Line of Tokyo Electric Power Company) are described. Having clarified the switching surge and impulse flashover characteristics of V-string insulator and strain insulator assemblies, installed on a simulated tower with a long gap of three meters or more, insulation was designed which withstands a switching surge of 2.5 per unit and is capable of unbalanced insulation between vertically arranged double circuits. The flashover path, predischarge, etc., of the switching surge was also investigated."
"This paper describes the corona noise characteristics of insulator-hardware assemblies in the Boso Power Transmission Line of Tokyo Electric Power Company which is the first 500-kV transmission line in Japan. The results of corona noise measurement made on a V-string insulator assembly and a strain insulator assembly are reported. Data on the corona noise level of insulator hardware obtained from a test line were converted into noise level values for an actual transmission line for comparison with the conductor corona noise levels. The design of the insulator hardware was decided accordingly."
"Concerning the application of insulation arms to overhead transmission structures, some tests on the arc-resistance nature of insulating materials have been performed mainly by means of a plasma jet generator. Several materials were exposed to the plasma flame and the state of the surface degeneration was examined. From the results, the relation between arc resistivity and the chemical structure of materials has been clarified to some extent. This fundamental information yields some excellent fiber glass reinforced plastics (FRP) under actual arc discharge. The insulation arms made of improved FRP have been used successfully on actual overhead line towers as a tension crossarm member to compensate for the lack of clearance."
"The study of changing properties of generator stator coil insulation on long-time exposure at elevated temperature is an accepted part of insulation development. This aging, however, has usually been done in air, while the windings of modem turbine generators operate in hydrogen atmosphere. Samples of synthetic resin bonded insulation were pyrolyzed in air and hydrogen at 200°C and one atmosphere. The gaseous, liquid, and residual products were analyzed by chromatography and infrared spectroscopy. Heated in air, the gases contained C3, C4, and C5 straight chain hydrocarbons, but the products in hydrogen contained, in addition, cyclohexane. The liquid and residual products indicate the sample pyrolyzed in air degrades by depolymerization and oxidation, while the sample in hydrogen depolymerizes, followed by some degree of hydrogenation."
"New power cable insulations based on covulcanized blends of ethylene propylene rubber (EPR) and polyethylene (PE) have been developed. These heat-, water-, ozone-, and highly corona-resistant insulations combine many of the desirable properties of both ethylene propylene rubber and polyethylene. Specific constructions of low-voltage, heat and moisture resistant power cables, aerial spacer cables, and portable power cables are reviewed and compared with existing constructions. It is felt that, compared to rubber insulated cables, the use of these new insulations can result in smaller diameter cables which exhibit many improved properties over thermoplastic or cross-linked polyethylene cables."
"A field installation of two different types of underground duct banks was made. They differed only in the spacing between the ducts and in the amount of concrete used in their thermal circuits. Identical loading was applied to each duct bank and studies were made of thermal gradients around them as determined by thermocouples. Differences in their thermal capabilities were shown to be due to different degrees of drying in soil or concrete in close proximity to the loaded ducts. Possible corrective measures to obtain better thermal conditions and a method of calculating thermal capabilities are presented, using previously published equations."
"The advent and expanding use of synthetic polymer-insulated high-voltage power cable has created a need for improved means for terminating this type of cable. The characteristics of synthetic polymer insulation permit the use of new techniques and materials which make it possible to design cable accessories with significant improvements in installation convenience as well as in functional characteristics. Specific devices for terminating polymer- insulated cable employing such new materials and techniques are described in detail."
"A new principle for stress control on cable terminations has been devised. A tape having a nonlinear voltage-current characteristic is wrapped on the exposed cable end. The resistance of this tape varies with stress in such a manner that the stress along it tends to equalize."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"This page or pages intentionally left blank."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"The decomposition of electronegative gases in electric discharges was studied to determine relative chemical stabilities and the effect of the discharge on dielectric strength. Rate of disappearance of the parent molecule and variation in dielectric strength with arcing time were determined. Good correlation was noted between atomic composition, molecular complexity and stability of the gases to discharge. In the fluorocarbon series the partial substitution of chlorine for fluorine or an increase in molecular complexity by the introduction of the carbon-carbon bond resulted in decreased discharge stability. The major gaseous product of all fluoro-and chlorofluorcarbons studied was CF4; which was itself almost unaffected by the discharge. A group of molecules of relatively simple structure was found to possess a unique degree of discharge stability."
"The spatial variations of charge density in current carrying unsaturated and saturated hydrocarbons have been determined by means of a probe technique between 20 and 65C for electric stresses of 50 to 300 volts and electrode separations of up to 1 cm. The charge distributions observed with unsaturated hydrocarbons were found to be quite different from those obtained for saturated hydrocarbons both in shape and time dependence. With all unsaturated hydrocarbons tested, an excess negative charge was found in the vicinity of the anode. For these materials, a total space charge was found which depended inversely on electrode separation whereas it was essentially nil for aliphatic hydrocarbons. The voltage-current characteristics of these materials were also determined for electric fields ranging from 1 to 106 volts/cm using dynamic as well as steady-state methods to elucidate the time dependence of the conduction process. The results of these experiments have been interpreted to suggest two different conduction mechanisms for the two classes of compounds. In the case of saturated hydrocarbons, electrical conduction has been attributed to the presence of polar impurities or trapped electrons which originate both at the electrode surface and in the bulk of the liquid. The conduction of electricity in unsaturated, aromatic hydrocarbons was attributed to the hopping of electrons. The observed voltage-current characteristics were found to be inconsistent with the predictions obtained from classical theories."
"This paper describes the characteristics and properties of a new insulation system currently used to manufacture high-voltage bushings at voltage ratings of 15 through 69 kV for transformers and switchgear apparatus. The system is compared with other forms of insulation such as phenolic-paper, oil-paper, mineral-filled epoxy, and electrical porcelain. Its application in high-voltage condenser bushings is also discussed. With this new insulation, epoxy resin is used to totally impregnate an electrical grade of kraft paper resulting in a resin-rich (approximately 70 percent) material having unusual properties. Its predominant characteristic is the complete absence of voids resulting in high-corona-inception voltages and high-dielectric strength. It also has excellent physical properties which, coupled with a flexible manufacturing process. open up numerous new design possibilities in high-voltage engineering."
"Electric-breakdown measurements at 60 Hz have been made with cryogenic liquids-nitrogen, hydrogen, and helium. All of the cryogenic liquids have higher breakdown voltages than conventional transformer oil, except liquid helium which breaks down at a considerably lower voltage. The measured values of dielectric constant for the cryogenic liquids agree quite well with the published literature. The dissipation factor of the cryogenic liquids is so low that true values cannot be reported. They appear to be below 0.000001. However, by comparison of the indicated values, it appears that the dissipation factor of liquid helium may be about ten times that of liquid hydrogen."
"A study has been carried out on the dielectric-loss behavior in mineral oils and silicone liquids under varying frequency, temperature, and voltage-stress conditions. Three distinct types of loss mechanisms, namely those of dipole orientation, space-charge polarization, and ionic conduction were manifest in the oils. It was found that both the dipole orientation and the ionic conduction losses increased markedly with the aromatic content of the oils. The size of the dipoles, which caused the polar loss, was estimated to vary from 1Å in the highest viscosity oil to 5.5Å in the lowest viscosity oil. The effect of viscosity upon the dipole-loss intensity appeared to be considerably less pronounced than that upon the ionic conduction loss. The increase of ionic conduction with the aromatic content was attributed to the presence of ionizable oxidation products and their increased dissociation factor in the more aromatic or polar oils. The space-charge loss was not found to be a simple function of the aromatic content or the viscosity of the oils; its occurreilce was ascribed to the presence of residual moisture within the oils. The silicone liquids exhibited no dipole loss, although their space-charge and ionic-conduction-loss behavior was similar to that in the oils. A peculiar type of absorption loss, whose magnitude increased with falling temperature but remained independent of frequency, was observed in the high-viscosity silicone liquid below -50°C."
"Electrical characteristics of blended insulating oils are of interest not only in the actual high-voltage engineering practice, but also in the understanding of the basic theory of dielectrics. By simple mathematics, this study reveals some of the fundamentals of the behavior of insulating oils, offers approximate but useful methods for computation and prediction of power factor for any composition of oils within the useful temperature range, and opens new approaches for further study concerning the physics of insulating oils."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"A brief biography of Clement Solomon Schifreen is given highlighting his professional achievements."
"This paper outlines techniques, developed over a number of years, for corona pulse height indication on meters and recorders. The use of (quasi-) peak-reading meters for indicating the level of the regularly occurring largest pulses in an insulation structure is discussed. The circuit combination of a loosely coupled RF transformer with a tuned Stoddart radio noise meter is shown to be a corona pulse charge meter of great versatility and high sensitivity. Examples of corona pulse recording as a function of applied power frequency voltage, time, and location are shown."
"To explore the fundamental concept concerning testing methods of corona resistance of insulating materials, some \"roundrobin\" tests with polyethylene have been performed by means of parallel-plate electrodes. The specimen films, degraded under the conditions of 6 kV ac impression and of static dry air, are examined with regard to weight, infrared spectrum, and other changes. From these results, information about degradation mechanisms was obtained. From these studies, the corona degradation behavior of polyethylene might be considered to include two kinds of chemical reactions. First, activated oxygen formed by discharge is able to oxidize perfectly the surface of the specimen exposed directly to discharge and to yield H2O, CO2, and other products, although the portion not directly exposed to the discharge is hardly affected owing to the extremely short life of these active species. At the same time, ozone with relatively long life diffuses into polyethylene and is able to form an ozonide by reacting with a terminal double bond, while it makes carboxylic acid and others by combining with the main chain in the polymer. Moreover, nitrogen oxide causes nitrate ester to be formed. Several conditions may control these two competitive reactions and the degree of competition is probably the reason for the fluctuation of results."
"The causes of corona in cast transformers are briefly discussed. Dissections of failed units and other observations have led to the conclusion that cracks along projecting margins of interlayer materials are sites of the most damaging corona. A test specimen is described which is intended to simulate corona in such cracks. Internal corona life data obtained with the new test specimen at 60 vpm and at test frequencies of 60 Hz and 1440 Hz are given for a number of formulations. Breakdown is shown to involve two or more phases, usually cavity erosion followed by \"treeing\". The 1440-Hz accelerated tests were found to give grossly overestimated 60-Hz lives for some materials; a possible explanation is presented. Test data are also included on the effectiveness of various barrier films in preventing internal breakdown."
"The results of a study of the life behavior of a developmental capacitor of the synthetic film type are presented. The life is shown to be extremely sensitive to thermal history of the capacitor. Heating at 85°C for 100 days increased the life by at least 40 to 1. Progressive stress testing in which voltage is increased with time aided materially in defining this effect as well as in showing that two mechanisms of failure were present. The purpose in this presentation is to present an example of the conditioning effect because it is not generally recognized that its effect on life can be as serious as it often is."
"In n-hexane, at fields up to 80 kV/cm, the dark conduction obeys Ohm's law, and the gamma-ray induced and ultraviolet photoinjected currents do not saturate for a wide range of temperatures. The induced and injected currents are proportional to the intensity of radiation. It is suggested that the dark conduction is associated with the presence of irremovable impurities and that the small fluctuation of conduction current is attributed to the electrons being irregularly attached to molecules and thermally released during their drift toward the anode. The factors influencing the mobilities of positive and negative charge carriers are discussed."
"The electric breakdown of nitrogen gas is determined using direct and 60-Hz voltage and impulse waves of both positive and negative polarity over the range of ½ × 10 to 550 × 9000 microseconds. The electrode system is composed of a 1-inch diameter brass sphere and a 1¾-inch-diameter square-edged brass plane with a spacing between them of ½ inch. The voltages are adjusted in small increments to give breakdown occurrences from 0 to 100 percent of the time. The change in voltage breakdown level for nitrogen gas as a function of time to voltage crest is shown to be markedly different from the generally accepted voltage-time curve for solid insulations. In the latter case the longer times to voltage crest invariably show lower voltage levels. By contrast, the voltage breakdown level for nitrogen gas for impulse waves of the order of switching surge length is even greater than that for an impulse wave reaching a crest around 0.5 us. In some cases the level of the 10 percent incidence of the voltage breakdown of nitrogen is found to be as low as one-half of that for the 90 percent incidence."
"With the objective of arriving at a better agreement, heretofore unattainable, between the power factor of a blended electrical insulating oil measured directly and that calculated from those of its components, the concept of \"ion content,\" as initiated by Whitehead, was brought into play. As the term implies, \"ion content,\" signifies a real and numerically addible quantity rather than an abstract one, no matter how this quantity is derived. Keeping this fact in mind, the computation of the power factor of a blended electrical insulating oil may be made easier, more rational, and more reliable. In this phase of the present series of studies, the agreements arrived at through the use of this method of approach have demonstrated vividly the reality and usefulness of this concept."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"To all authors, reviewers, and readers, the officers of the Group on Electrical Insulation, the members of the Administrative Committee, the chairmen of the Technical Committees and Task Forces, and the editors of the Group Publications extend their greetings and good wishes for the holidays and 1968. Cordial thanks also are extended to the many members and nonmembers of the Group who have contributed so effectively, cheerfully, and generously to the work done in 1967. A MERRY CHRISTMAS AND A HAPPY NEW YEAR"
"Chemical mechanisms of tracking and erosion are reviewed by considering mechanisms of conduction and molecular structure of polymers. It is shown that track formation need not necessarily be by graphite formation and that degradation mechanisms cannot always be predicted by inspection of molecular steriochemistry."
"A new tracking test has been designed which substantially eliminates the faults of the standardized tracking tests. It has been used successfully over the past three years in the evaluation of the tracking resistance of cable insulations. Utilizing a liquid contaminant of ammonium chloride, tracking resistance measurements can be molded panels or on cable sections in a very short time with excellent reproducibility. A correlation of the results obtained using the Dip-Track Test and the Inclined Plane Test is shown. A test method for the evaluation of tracking resistance with the Dip-Track Test equipment is presented. Also, a description of the equipment with schematic electrical and mechanical drawings is given."
"The interaction of varnish with magnet wire enamel can lead to a reduction in the thermal life rating of the insulation system (ASTM D2307-64T). The recognition of this reduction in life rating is encountered first by varnished twisted pairs of enameled wire. An attempt is made to determine the mechanism of this interaction by studying the system microscopically, by differential thermal analysis and by infrared analysis. The microscopic analysis defines the nature of the bond between magnet wires and the type of coverage that the varnish gives to the magnet wire. It also reveals some information on the type of attack on the enamel and varnish system. Thermal analysis and infrared analysis are used to determine, if possible, whether the thermal decomposition of the magnet wire enamel is accelerated by the presence of the varnish and to reveal some background information as to the nature of this accelerated decomposition. This can then act as guide for the selection of varnishes with enamels that will minimize interactions that reduce the thermal life of insulation."
"Thermal endurance tests to AIEE Standard 57 [1] have been performed in six laboratories each using self-prepared varnished specimens made from a common sample of polyester enameled wire and polyester varnish. The results have been analyzed to test the hypothesis of the departure from linearity of the relationship between the logarithm of life and the inverse of the absolute temperature. A comparison is made between the experimental results at the lowest test temperature and the corresponding extrapolated values based on the experimental results at the higher temperatures. The variation between the results of different laboratories is considered. Comparison is made with previous work [2] undertaken in six laboratories on PVA enameled wire specimens, prepared and impregnated with an oil-modified phenolic varnish by a single laboratory, and with published AIEE results. Comparison is also made with the results of a previous interim statistical analysis, [3] applied to the test results at the three higher temperatures only. The main statistical analysis is performed both for the complete set of results, and for the median results only. The extrapolated thermal lives based on the two methods are shown, with one exception, to differ by less than 6 percent at 20°C below the lowest test temperature. The importance of the median method is that generally not all of the specimens are required to be tested to failure, with a consequent saving of a substantial amount of testing time, particularly at the lowest test temperature."
"Attempts to understand the mechanism of dielectric loss, based on laboratory testing of petroleum-derived transformer and cable oils, have led to several important conclusions. First, soluble copper at the parts per billion level has a large adverse effect on oil stability. Second, certain compound types tend to solubilize copper and thus lead to rapid oil degradation. Third, aromatic hydrocarbons tend to preserve oil stability. Laboratory comparisons of petroleum-derived cable oils with synthetic fluids have led to the conclusion that the petroleum oils are less reactive than the synthetic fluids. New, improved petroleum oils have been developed based on the above findings, and are briefly discussed."
"A study has been made of discharges occurring in voids. A sample of convenient size is described. A method of mea suring the discharge pulse has been developed which reduces the inductance of the circuit to a minimum. As a result it has been found that the pulses have rise times of the order of 1 ns which is shorter than previously anticipated. Extremely fast discharges may be counted. A method of counting pulses larger than some predetermined magnitude is presented. Where one surface of the void is a semiconductor, the positive and negative pulses are shown to decrease at different rates. Evidence of pulse shape due to discharge in a void can be determined by instrument."
"The \"armette test\" was devised to improve the quality of test data and reduce the cost of obtaining it. Test methods to date require the manufacture of an entire motor. Present data can be unduly influenced or even voided should the field change or failure occur during the test. The \"armette\" is a unit that consists of a simple shaft, laminations, magnet wire, insulation, and varnish. It differs from the standard armature in that it has fewer coils, no commutator, and no fan. When assembled in the test setup it makes use of a built-in fan and slip ring assembly for cooling and electrical connections. The armette test consists of mounting the armette in a fixture, connecting the leads to the slip ring, and starting the cyclic test. The cyclic test contains a stationary heating period, a high-speed spin, an electrical surge test, a coast-to-stop period, and a hypot test. The time for each part of the cycle and the input voltage for the heating period are the controlled variables for the test. The work done and correlations run in developing an armette test are presented. Results obtained indicate that the armette test produces data which correlate with present stall test data."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Provides a listing of current society officers."
"The recently published Air Force Systems Command Manual 375-5 (AFSCM 375-5), System Engineering Management Procedures, prescribes the management policies and procedures to be followed in the establishment of requirements for, and in the design, development, test, operation, and maintenance of future Air Force systems. The life cycle of systems requiring AFSCM 375-5 implementation is described and the prescribed system engineering management process and significant documentation tools are discussed in detail. In addition, possible implementation problems and solutions associated with the application of AFSCM 375-5 are discussed."
"The feasibility of using evolutionary techniques to construct a model for a given process was investigated. Programs were written to synthesize six competing models and to adjust, combine, and eliminate these according to their performance with respect to the actual process. Results show that although the use of evolutionary techniques is promising for identifying processing having nonanalytic properties, it is also, at the same time, very costly with respect to computer time."
"A differential game is described where the opponents are a missile and a radar. The problem is formulated so that linear theory can be used in finding the optimal strategies of both opponents. The missile uses a mixed strategy by adding white noise into its controller. The statistics of this noise (the covariance completely describes the noise) can be controlled. In finding the optimal strategy for the covariance of the controller noise, the solution by means of the calculus of variations involves a singular arc."
"Procedures are described for identifying, coding, and enumerating distinguishable subnetwork configurations available from a z-terminal parent network. The number of subnetworks with x terminals and y ports are evaluated for representative values of x, y, and z. Constraints imposed by the symmetry of the device structure are analyzed and results applied to multiterminal devices employed in the design of integrated circuits."
"A general mathematical formulation for learning in an unknown stationary environment is established from the viewpoint of stochastic approximation. The existing learning techniques, based on the Bayesian type of inference, are first shown to fall into the general framework of stochastic approximation algorithms. As a consequence of the modeling, some convergence properties, optimal characteristics, and possible improvements of the learning schemes are then derived with less effort and fewer restrictions. The results of this work may provide an alternative approach to the study of learning theory and suggest a different mathematical basis for the analysis and synthesis of learning systems in pattern recognition, automatic control, and statistical communications."
"A compatible series of computer programs is developed for circuits with large numbers of components, typically 30 to 100. The programs utilize the dichotomy entailed in the flowgraph associated with any active network. Algorithms are established to 1) dichotomize the network into voltage and current generators, 2) examine separately each set and the associated system of controls interrelating both sets, and 3) establish a flowgraph in terms of a unique dichotomous representation for a given equivalent circuit. While the algorithms were developed for linear networks, the dichotomous procedures provide an approach which is not so restricted."
"Computer-driven cathode-ray tube (CRT) displays are becoming an important means of on-line man-machine communication, particularly for graphical input/output in laboratory investigations of computer-aided design techniques. Their operation, however, often requires so much of the computational resources of the associated computer that they are not yet considered economic or practical for general industrial use. This paper discusses the systems engineering problems in designing and using display systems, with emphasis on the hardware-software tradeoffs. As an example, a display specifically developed for computer-aided design applications is described which has unusual special-purpose computing capabilities for dynamic picture manipulations, including rotation, scaling, and translation of 3-dimensional images. it is concluded that there is much work ahead, and that the proper hardware-software organization for these complexes of computers, communication links, terminals, and men is a fertile field for the systems engineer."
"The essence of decision-making is understanding the economic impact of uncertainty. In this paper a previous discussion of information value theory is extended to illustrate how the availability of information on the uncertain factors of a problem affects the probability density function of profit, the profit lottery. A bidding problem serves to demonstrate the type of calculations required and their implications."
"Characteristics of advanced industrial system transactions are described, using specific examples of development activity, project organization and scheduling, user liason, and typical problem areas. Recommendations are included."
"System performance can be measured by means of loss functions and risk functions. Inequalities are derived which provide upper and lower bounds on the total system risk function in terms of the more readily evaluated individual subsystem risk functions. Bounds are given for the cases in which the members of an arbitrary collection of interconnected subsystems are either statistically independent or dependent in operation."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"This paper describes how an adaptive system can adapt itself to optimize its performance under the influence of uncertain environment. At each stage of adaptation, the uncertain environment, which is represented by a random vector with an unknown statistical property, is estimated by Bayesian approach from its past outcomes up to the latest one. This approach is investigated in general so that the probability distribution of the future outcomes of the random vector is not restricted to any particular one. For most of the adaptive systems, these probability distributions are assumed to be the same. However, in the case of signal adaptation, it is shown that the results as well as the execution of the optimization technique are alike whether or not the probability distributions of the forthcoming outcomes of the random vector are the same."
"Meaningful factor analysis and algebraic operations during stimulation, learning, and discrimination experiments have been performed on averaged evoked potential responses, suggesting that, at least under some circumstances, the signal space of average evoked potentials is linear. Alternatively, the \"behavior\" of simulated neural nets is defined as the observation of an average over an ensemble of the trajectories of solutions of interconnected nonlinear dynamical systems. This behavior is a mathematical counterpart of the physiological macropotential observations. In this paper, a mathematical model corresponding to the ensemble average over an unconnected set of statistically distributed linear elements suggests duplication of both the simulated neural net and the neurophysiological findings. In contrast with the simulated neural network, the statistical properties of this model are amenable to analysis. The model suggests experiments of the prediction and control of multidiscrimination experiments in cats and provokes questions on the significance of the specification of detail in different levels on the structural hierarchy of the brain."
"The U. S. plywood industry is analyzed as a feedback system and simulated on a large-scale digital computer. An industry of thousands of interacting firms is approximately represented by a model of seven interacting sectors by grouping together firms which tend to behave homogeneously in response to the same input variables. The seven sectors include two producing sectors representing, in the aggregate, independent mills of the industry and mills integrated in their organization with wholesale warehouses. Three wholesale sectors represent aggregations of independent jobbers, jobbers integrated organizationally with producers, and office wholesalers who hold no physical inventory. Two retail sectors represent, in the aggregate, retailers and users who buy in box-car-load lots and those who buy in less than box-car-load lots. Description of the independent mill and independent jobber sectors are presented in some detail because of the key role these firms play in the determination of market price. The market price mechanism is discussed along with the method employed to represent, in the aggregate, the information and material handling lags in the system. Preliminary tests of the simulation model are compared with industry data."
"Recursive Bayesian equations are given for estimating the states of a system, given the sequence of inputs, outputs, and the probabilistic interdependences from one time to the next. Equations are derived for the case of a nonlinear system with normal error densities and linear deviations for small errors. These equations reduce to the Kalman filter for the strictly linear case. When the equations are applied to a specific nonlinear system, i.e., a transversal sampled data filter with unknown weighting states, a perceptron or Adaline type algorithm results for estimating the weights."
"This paper describes how to find the extremum of a constrained multivariable function by taking advantage of its structure. Three steps lead to the solution. The first step discusses restructuring a given problem-reformulating it in a way which makes possible the calculations performed in the next two steps. The second step presents the conversion of the restructured problem into a block diagram. The last step presents the problem solution from the block diagram obtained."
"The efficiency of the learning process is investigated in terms of the efficiency of abstract learning machines. The measure of efficiency defined gives an estimate of the minimum period for a system to absorb a given quantity of information, makes possible a quantitative comparison of different learning systems, and establishes a quantity which designers of adaptive machines should attempt to maximize."
"This paper presents two viewpoints of the k-tuple pattern recognition scheme proposed by Browning and Bledsoe. The first shows that k-tuple pattern recognition is a statistical approximation technique. In effect, the recognition is accomplished by approximating a higher order probability distribution by use of the first-order distributions. Using this viewpoint, and Lewis' measure of characteristic selection, several alternative approximations are offered. The second viewpoint is that recognition is a special case, or subclass, of a Ф learning machine. It can be shown that if the input pattern vector X is first processed by a Ф-processor (in this case a kth order polynomial) and then certain terms discarded, the resulting learning machine is identical to a k-tuple pattern recognition machine."
"Accommodative convergence of the eyes relates to reflex convergence when the lens accommodates for distance. The system has been studied in both frequency and time domains by providing sinusoidal and pulse stimuli of target distance from the eye and measuring the degree of convergence as output. Both predictable single sinusoidal and nonpredictable multiple sinusoidal data are obtained and related to subject experience in tracking. The results for single sinusoidal input at varying input amplitudes show the system to behave as if it contained a nomemory nonlinearity. Open loop single sinusoidal data was measured directly and compared with open loop Bode plots theoretically derived from the closed loop data. Instability oscillations are demonstrated and their frequency is predicted by the open loop data. A mathematical model to describe the data is derived. The adaptive nature of the system is discussed and evidence is given for a prediction operator as an input adaptive feature. The instability oscillations are shown to occur in those situations in which one might predict small signals to be produced by an initial error sensing element in the system. It is suggested that one type of adaptive function is to vary the gain of the controller or error correcting portion of the system and hence the total open loop gain. When situations then arise that markedly increase open loop gain, instability oscillations result. Finally, the system is shown to behave as if it were not a sampled data system, but rather operates on data flow continuously."
"No theory or analysis, only some very general conclusions of a case study are presented here. The subject seems appropriate at this time since it covers the objective-setting of a large industrial firm, with particular emphasis on large-scale plant control systems. Three of the authors represent three distinct functional units of a steel company, i.e., planning and engineering, production, and research and development. The objectives are defined in terms of the functions of their respective departments. This paper should provoke thoughts and questions and be helpful to others in setting overall objectives for control systems in a large corporation."
"This paper presents the development of an operator algebra for differential systems which is useful in that it allows the transmittance methods commonly applied to linear stationary systems to be extended, almost without modification, to nonstationary systems as well. This operator algebra for differential systems has two operations, addition and multiplication, and two special elements, the null and the identity elements. The null element is defined as any differential system operator that maps every input into a null output. The identity element is defined as any differential system operator that maps every input into an identical output. In a similar fashion the negative and inverse of a particular differential system are defined. Also included is a treatment of reducibility of nonstationary systems and its relation to controllability. Matrix-vector notation is used exclusively. This has the advantage of yielding explicit expressions for sum and product differential systems. Examples illustrate the application of the differential system operator algebra."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"Consideration of divergent viewpoints leads the author to wonder which is the minority view among the people of this country: whether we want individually to improve our lot by taking something away from someone else, or whether we want to advance by providing more worth and earning more of the desirable things in life. It may be old fashioned - not in keeping with this jet age but the author believes the latter view is favored by a majority of the people in this country. In so saying however, he admits that public evidence is to the contrary."
"It is argued that in looking at the challenges and problems that face a company or an industry, we frequently tend to think of solutions in terms of dollars or company efforts, without looking behind these to the real source of solutions-people. In the final analysis, challenges and problems that face our industry, can only be met by people ... and to a great extent, by engineers. It is then noted that it is extremely important to continue developing ones self to one's full potential. To sum up on this subject of self-development, there is no single or best strategy for improvement. But there is one universal prerequisite. That is: one must honestly want to improve. Taking this one step further, one must acknowledge to oneself that, as good as one is, one can always be better ... better ... and better. A young engineer should not let himself be tied to the conventional way of doing things. He should not hestitate to do some \"imagineering,\" to propose new creative solutions to problems. He should not be afraid to \"stick out his neck\" once in a while, because he will never see around the corner if he does not!"
"The digital computer control of industrial processes is traced from its crude beginnings to its present state. Factors involved in its widespread acceptance are presented and analyzed, and several important trends are recognized."
"Many cases of electrical equipment burndown arising from low-level arcing-fault currents have occurred in recent years in low-voltage power distribution systems. Burndown, which is the severe damage or complete destruction of conductors, insulation systems and metallic enclosures, is caused by the concentrated release of energy in the fault arc. Both grounded and ungrounded electrical distribution systems have experienced burndowns, and the reported incidents have involved both industrial and commercial building distribution equipment, without regard to manufacturer, geographical location, or operating environment."
"The rules for the installation of lightning protection systems are available in published national codes and standards. For such systems to be effective an adequate grounding system is essential, and this paper is confined primarily to this phase of the subject."
"Conventional and visionary automation systems applied to oil and gas production are discussed. The authors are avowedly in favor of visionary automation systems and point this out in the comparison, point by point, with conventional supervisory control systems. The paper first contrasts, generally, the concepts of visionary automation systems with conventional systems. Secondly, specific ingredients of each type of system are weighed, and cost factors and calculations are cited. A detailed discussion of computer-directed automation systems hardware available today is also included."
"The required ignition energy for any flammable vapor-air mixture depends on the flammable material, its concentration in air, the prevailing electrical circuit make-and-break characteristics and, to some extent, the temperature and pressure of the mix prior to its ignition. This minimum ignition energy and the corresponding most easily ignited gas or vapor-air mixture have been determined for most materials."
"The value of offshore oil reservoirs relatively close to large onshore refineries is becoming increasingly important as onshore oilfields become depleted. This paper describes the electrical supporting facilities for Standard Oil Company of California's man-made, rock-filled drilling island located one and one-half miles off the Southern California Coast in 38 feet of water. Installation of electrical equipment and submarine cable are described. Capital expenditure and costs of power consumption and electric drilling are developed. Finally, the need for an adequate preventive maintenance program due to the corrosive marine atmosphere is demonstrated, and a sample chart of routine maintenance attached."
"The objective of this paper is to give a brief and general coverage of the subject, with additional comments on items important to achieving optimum protection. Check lists of items to consider and types of protection are given in the first part of the paper. These can be referred to whenever motor protection is being studied."
"In the design of regulators it is desirable that the quantity to be regulated should be sensed directly in the form most nearly corresponding to the regulated quantity. The Hall-effect device is a sensor which provides an output voltage proportional to the instantaneous product of a magnetic field in one axis, and a current in the second axis and, hence, makes possible the direct sensing of the product of any two quantities that can be converted to currents."
"The danger of undetected ground faults on low-voltage systems is reviewed, and the destruction that arcing faults can cause is explained. The methods of clearing ground faults are discussed, and an economical method of ground-fault tripping is presented. This uses solid-state components to provide a static trip device for low-voltage power circuit breakers which initiates tripping for low magnitude ground faults as well as phase faults and overloads. Coordination curves of a typical system showing selective phase and ground-fault tripping are included."
"A laboratory procedure that was used in developing electrical requirements pertinent to the cathodic protection of copper for a given situation is described. The work was prompted by severe corrosion of copper tubing used underground at a housing development. The soil environment was reported as having a low resistivity (about 200 Scm) and a high concentration of sulfate ion."
"The possibility of using fluorocarbon insulated wires and cables for petrochemical applications, where other materials have not performed satisfactorily, is discussed."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"ELECTRICAL noise! You cannot hear it but, without proper system design, it can sadly affect the performance and reliability of sophisticated steel mill control systems. Some of these have been placed in service with virtually no difficulty; other systems, however, have been very troublesome, requiring extensive rework, and never quite achieving the degree of performance promised by theory or laboratory tests of the equipment. The spurious signals introduced by noise can cause weird and intermittent effects that are very difficult to resolve. The proper approach, in the first place, is to avoid noise by equipment design and installation techniques which either make the system resistant to noise or reduce the noise sources themselves."
"The use of computers and other sensitive electronic equipment in process instrumentation systems has demanded that more attention be given to electrical noise pickup in instrument circuits. This paper presents the results of tests conducted on ways of reducing the four types of noise encountered in electronic instrument circuits."
"Written to be easily understood, this straightforward comprehensive procedure for short-circuit calculation presents familiar concepts in clear pictorial instructions supported with pertinent explanations. The System One-Line diagram and circuit data are used directly without conversion to unfamiliar abstract terms. Simple arithmetic produces readily evaluated results. Typical circuit data is offered for reference and an example demonstrates the complete procedure."
"With the large horsepowers required for centrifugal compressors in the process industry today, driver selection has an important effect on overall plant profitability. This paper discusses some general application considerations, then presents price and performance data for electric motors, gas turbines, and steam turbines. These data will assist the process plant designer in selecting economic alternatives to be considered in a driver system study. For instance, cost data included in the paper compare different motor enclosures, motor voltages, and types of motors. Curves that can be used to estimate voltage dip when starting different motors with a range of different electrical supply systems are provided. Gas turbine and steam turbine data indicate performance, low fuel cost by-product power available, fuel chargeable to power, and the availability of heat for process or other power uses."
"Open-and closed-loop discontinuously controlled electric process heating and similar electrothermal processes are represented by analog, equation, and block diagram. Dynamic equilibrium cycling and its performance indexes are studied. The error due to process transit delay is corrected by integral feedback or by a new feedforward technique. Temperature differential is reduced by auxiliary feedback from the electric heating apparatus or from a new simple first-derivative transducer. Portions of the dynamic equilibrium cycle can be prolonged by using a new simple second-derivative transducer."
"Large bulk material handling facilities have been and are being built today in which the belt conveyor has an important part. This paper describes a motor control system for an improved method of accelerating long belt conveyors. The application of the drive motor and its control system can have significant effect on belt life and initial cost of the control, motor, and drive equipment."
"Electronic vibration monitoring devices are spreading to a wide variety of industrial machinery applications. Present monitor designs are capable of predictive signaling of impending mechanical problems in many classes of prime movers and loads."
"An in-line gasoline blender installed at the Suntide Refinery, Corpus Christi, Texas, is discussed. The blender will produce blended gasoline at a maximum rate of 6000 barrels per hour. Up to eleven component streams are controlled to give the final gasoline blend. Each stream is controlled by a digital control system to maintain that component as a fixed percentage of the total blend."
"An application of thyristor power supplies used to generate adjustable 13-0- 13-Hz directly from the 60-Hz system, controlling both frequency and voltage to power the reversing runout table motors for a hot strip mill is discussed."
"SCR inverters of the sine-wave type are well known. Some have the disadvantages of poor regulation, very high component voltages when operating under heavy load, and an inability to operate with no load."
"The Subserf system was specifically designed with the safety and problems of the utility engineer and lineman in mind. It is, we believe, the first real attempt to provide standardization of components for submersible underground systems. No longer need the lineman be concermed with complicated circuitry or lack of means to properly handle shielded systems. Purchase and store functions are simplified through a minimum number of standardized plug-in components. Utility design engineers have at their disposal a complete line of coordinated components to simplify their application problems. Subserf systems are available today to serve the needs of residential subdivisions. The Subserf philosophy is rapidly being expanded to include main line switching, both single and 3-phase, and automatic sectionalizing devices necessary to serve the growing trend to complete underground systems."
"The electrification of oil field drilling equipment has for the most part taken place on offshore installations and mobile units. Other applications of oil field drilling equipment have generally not utilized available electric transmissions because of factors not readily recognized. An attempt is made to review the design engineer's considerations for drilling equipment design and important environmental and logistic factors. Some observations are made that should assist the electric equipment manufacturer in broadening his field of application in this market by proper consideration of the factors discussed."
"Provides notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"This page or pages intentionally left blank."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"A brief overview of the need for, and development of, the US National Academy of Engineering is presented. This is an organization through which engineering advice and counsel could be made available to the government and brought to bear on large national problems that is comparable to the US National Academy of Sciences (NAS), which for over a century has served this purpose for the scientific community. The Academy is still in the process of trying to organize its activities for maximum effectiveness, because there are so many areas in which the services of an organization of this sort have been needed. There seems to be every indication that the Academy is destined to take a place of increasing importance in relation both to the profession and to the US government. By serving as a forum for the exchange of ideas among representatives of the nation's top engineering talent in all specialties and fields, it should be able to bring a measure of much needed un ity to the engineering profession. It should also be able, not only to provide sound engineering judgment to numerous government agencies and policy-making groups, but also, in cooperation with the NAS, to effect a desirable balance in the advice given to those agencies and groups - a balance between the approach of the basic scientist and that of the engineer oriented to the industrial world."
"The continuous control of interior environment with today's requirements for higher lighting levels has greatly altered the way in which energy is consumed in buildings. In order to optimize the energy input and achieve environmental control, we must utilize the systems approach. The lighting, heating, and cooling systems must be interrelated so that we can utilize available internal energy to satisfy the heating requirements and simultaneously reduce the energy input by eliminating the refrigeration and air handling associated with collecting lighting and solar radiant heat."
"Distribution circuits which are solidly grounded or grounded through low impedance present a problem relative to fast clearing of ground faults. This is especially true in low-voltage grounded Y circuits which are connected to bus ducts or long runs of metallic conduct. The problem involves sensitivity in detecting low ground fault currents as well as coordination between main and feeder circuit protective devices. Fault clearing must be extremely fast where arcing is present."
"The effect of safety regulations on international trade, especially with European countries, is discussed from the viewpoint of an official observer relating to the activities of intermational safety standards organizations. Particular emphasis is placed on the work of the International Commission on Rules for the Approval of Electrical Equipment (CEE). The several factors involved in the establishment of artificial barriers to international trade through regulatory bodies are expiored."
"Circuit design considerations of an all solid-state circuit which converts a digital pulse repetition rate to a corresponding analog voltage which can be used as a feedback signal in an accurate speed regulator are discussed. Integrated circuits were used in the circuit where it was advantageous to do so."
"Underground corrosion associated with electrical grounding has caused numerous problems in operating electric systems. Much of the difficulty is due to dissimilar metal effects between buried copper and steel connected together via the grounding network. Unfortunately, these effects are widely ignored in electrical design and the requirements of electrical protection and corrosion mitigation are often seen as opposing each other. Experience has shown that both sets of requirements can be met. On electric distribution lines, the most helpful measures against corrosion include the use of galvanized steel rather than copper for grounding electrodes. Sacrificial anodes are helpful for adding additional corrosion protection where needed. Underground copper wire should be tinned or otherwise coated to avoid or minimize dissimilar metal effects. Research is in progress for determining what coatings would be best for this purpose."
"The operating principles of a transformer tap changing system are presented. The system is named synchronous tap changer because it changes taps in synchronism with its input signal. The purpose of a synchronous tap changer is to change the turns ratio of a transformer in a manner which will reduce the distortion content of the incoming signal. In effect, it is an active filter. It is expected to find use in power type systems."
"The public is interested in underground power distribution lines primarily because this is a way of putting substantially all elements of the power system out of sight. At the present time underground distribution is being promoted almost entirely on the basis of improved appearance. To the operator of a power system, however, underground distribution offers two additional attractions, both of which eventually may be more important than appearance. It is reasonable to anticipate that the underground system of today will prove to be both safer and more reliable than any overhead system. With continuing advances in the development of new equipment, further progress in these advantages can be expected."
"This paper presents an attempt to solve the difficult problem of controlling 120-cycle noise by design. A case study of an automatic washer is presented. The subject is treated in the categories of the exciting source, the energy transmission paths, and the excited members. Prime emphasis is placed on the exciting source, which in this case is the main drive motor. The paper attempts to answer te following questions: how tismotorproduces 120-cycle energy; how it can be measured; and how it can be controlled. Several methods of determination of 120-cycle pulsating torque are discussed with examples of typical measurements and the correlation between methods. The difficulties of correlating predictions of noise and actual noise measurements are discussed, with techniques of statistical correlation offered. The paper concludes with a method of quality control which enables comparison of product performance to the engineering standard."
"Demand, energy con umption, and appliance data from 1156 rural consumers in 34 states were analyzed to determine coefficients of equations for predicting the 30-minute demands of individual consumers. Consumers in the South were found to have higher demands in relation to energy consumption than those in the North, and separate analyses were made for the two regions. The equations for predicting demand when used with appropriately programmed computers permit the automatic print-out of lists of consumers that may have overloaded transformers or services."
"A brief history is given of the development of the present committee structure for producing and revising the National Electrical Code. The procedure permits anyone to submit proposed revision of the code and provides a method of processing which insures a consensus and thus recognition as an American standard. A review is made of the schedule of revision and the steps taken to insure opportunity for review by industry before adoption. Technical committees are used to solve special problems where additional knowledge is needed. The intended function of tentative interim amendments and official interpretations are explained."
"The theory, construction, installation, and operation of electric insect traps which are used for experimental insect survey and control applications are described."
"Telephone equipment being used for data transmission, and housed on telephone customer premises, requires miniature ac to dc power supplies. The miniaturization of a dc power supply associated with this equipment has been facilitated by the use of pulse modulation techniques. An analysis is presented of an open-loop regulated dc power supply operating from a commercial ac source. The analysis illustrates how open-loop regulation has been achieved through the use of pulse modulation techniques. The pulse modulation is achieved with a parallel inverter operating into a 2-core transformer at a 20-kHz switching rate. The analysis includes the cases where 1) under ideal conditions there is no error in the pulse duration, 2) the error in pulse duration is a constant finite amount, and 3) pulse duration error varies on a periodic basis. Both calculated and measured results are presented based on tests made on a breadboard model of the open-loop inverter regulator."
"Provides notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"This page or pages intentionally left blank."
"Presents the front cover of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"The United States has played and still plays the leading role in the development of the resistance welding technique. Spot welding of both structural steel in heavy construction and light alloys are mentioned in the early thirties. The first mercury-rectifier controlled resistance welding machine was shown in Europe about the same time. Control techniques have developed along the same lines as in the United States. Some unusual techniques of non-destructive testing, presently being developed in Europe, are outlined. Details of a flash-butt welding machine, said to be the world's biggest, are given. The cooperation of welding societies and research bodies within Europe and the European contribution to the International Institute of Welding are explained."
"Experimental studies of the evolution of events accompanying a transient, low-voltage sparkover-initiated discharge between closely-spaced electrodes in a liquid dielectric are described. The discharge parameters and the electrode configuration are similar to those found in electrical discharge machining (EDM) applications. High-speed photomicrographic records of the dynamic evolution of the discharge column and the gas bubble created by the discharge are presented. Additional photographic evidence of the details of electrode metal erosion dynamics is given. The photo-micrographs suggest that metal erosion takes place at the beginning of the discharge current pulse and after the termination of the discharge current pulse."
"A magneto-strictive torque transducer comprises a length, of the order of 6 inches, of solid or hollow shaft of ferro-magnetic material equipped with magnetization and signal pickup windings. A variety of stationary and rotating coil systems can be employed, but all are characterized by a mutually perpendicular arrangement of the magnetization and pickup coils so that no voltage is induced in the latter by the alternating magnetizing current at no load. Torque diverts some of the flux to the pickup coils, the EMF thereby produced being a measure of the torque."
"Adequate comfort conditions in any space heating process can be assured only if a good understanding of the dynamic temperature variations is possessed. The vast majority of published literature considering the system dynamics assumes that the temperature variations have an exponential increase or decrease with time, and hence, that the thermal system can be modeled by linear RC equivalent circuits. These linear models have a severe restriction in that the time constant of the exponential variations remain constant under all conditions. A few published articles giving experimental data have indicated that in discontinuously controlled electric heating processes the system time constant during heating (active time constant) is not necessarily the same as the system time constant during the interval in which no heat is supplied (passive time constant)."
"The increased use of hydrogen in the nuclear and aerospace industries has multiplied the need for suitable electrical equipment for Group B applications, both for Division 1 and 2 of Class I."
"A simple, compact laser interferometer has been developed for use as a length-measuring transducer on various types of machine tools. The size, which is less than a 2-inch cube, and rugged construction, with all optical components glued or otherwise rigidly secured, make mounting on machine tools an inexpensive operation; the units do not interfere with normal machine operation. The design requirements of interferometers for these applications are discussed with the specific critical design features of this unit. This includes electronic as well as optical design. These interferometers have been used on both manually operated machines and automatic numerically controlled units where the interferometers act as the feedback elements. Inspection machines with their higher accuracy requirements have received most of the installations, but fabrication machine installations have also been made. The operating experience, which extends over a year on some installations, is discussed in relation to present day limitations and drawbacks. Photographs of installations with the interferometer and the actual interferometer package are shown."
"This paper examines problems associated with utility supply to single-phase, 60-cycle railway loads from the 3-phase utility transmission system. Supply techniques and limitations are recommended which will insure satisfactory operating conditions from both utility and railroad standpoints. Service aspects considered include: reliability and supply station facilities, phase and voltage unbalance effects, anticipated power factor, harmonics, radio, and inductive interference. There appear to be no insurmountable problems associated with supplying foreseeable railway loads from utility high-voltage transmission systems and no requirement for railroad transmission facilities or special balancing equipment exists."
"The analysis of a new multiple output dc regulating system is presented. Regulation is achieved by switching between two ac levels in the primary of the power transformer. One output is precisely regulated because it is used for control purposes. The other outputs are essentially independent of line voltage, but do have regulation associated with the voltage drops in their filter inductors and rectifiers. Equations needed for design are plotted in a normalized manner. Load current must not become less than the critical current required by the filter inductor if regulation is to be maintained. A design example illustrates use of the information presented. Basic circuit concepts are included."
"Methods of making tests of a varied nature on subway cars are described and details of pieces of apparatus are given. Instrumentation for recording braking tests is discussed and followed by discussion of rapid distance recording. A novel form of speedometer is detailed and its special drive mechanism is described. A brief comment on accelerometers is followed by opinions on the criteria for desirable current-voltage recorders. The need for time synchronization of paper charts and a method of providing every recorder simultaneously with an accurate comrnon time scale trace is described. Conmments on common temperature measurements and a description of a little known method of high temperature recording follow. A simple duty cycle meter and a device for detecting partial breaks in cables are discussed, followed by a synopsis of a few other devices used in Toronto."
"This paper discusses solid-state appliance controls both from the standpoint of techniques for producing circuit assemblies and in terms of some recent improvements in circuits useful for appliance applications."
"Provides notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"It is in the spirit of shared concern and mutual benefit that the author discusses railroad electrification. In doing this, there are several genieral considerations that are reviewed. First, what are some of the factors that have contributed to the recent revival of interest in railroad electrification? Why has straight electric propulsion long a dormant concept in this country-suddenly become an exciting, challenging issue? Second, why specifically are we in the electric utility industry interested? What, from our point of view, is the potential of railroad electrification, and what are the problems associated with its development? Third, what is the nature and extent of electric utility involvement? What are we doing and what, if any, have been the results of our efforts? Last, what is the outlook for the future? What are some of the larger tranisportation problemis to be faced, and what part will the railroad and electric utility industries play in helping to solve them?"
"The protection provided by low-voltage power circuit breakers for circuit conductors and connected load devices, and the degree to which breakers can be coordinated with other protective devices in the power distribution system, depend to a large extent on the characteristics of overcurrent trip devices on these breakers. Trip devices using solid-state circuitry, with characteristics established to meet requirements for both protection and coordination, offer distinct advantages over electromechanical types of trip devices to application engineers and system designers. The extent to which inherent advantages of solid-state circuitry are realized in the design of a recently introduced trip device' is illustrated by a number of examples of system application of low-voltage power circuit breakers for both phase-overcurrent and ground fault protection."
"Series RL circuits having a power factor between 40 and 50 percent with a resistor shunting the inductor and drawing one percent of the power are presently used for evaluating breaking capacity of motor starters. Transient recovery voltages of these circuits show anomalies which indicate that test circuits in different laboratories may have widely different characteristics and produce different test results. It is shown that important differences in the transient recovery voltage may be caused by differences in the effective capacitance shunting the series inductor and parasitic inductance in the shunt resistor. Test circuit recovery voltages are compared with representative recovery voltages of induction motors."
"A low-cost solid-state circuit is described for generating up to a kilowatt of power over the frequency range of 400 Hz to 30 kHz. The circuit features good waveform and good regulation into a wide range of load magnitude and phase angle."
"A new approach to cable bus systems is described primarily by using factory construction to replace field assembly."
"This study considers only first and operating costs of office buildings and occupancy, because no brief study can cover all combinations of structure size and usage, climatic conditions, and available equipment."
"Secondary feedback is used in the ON-OFF control of electric heating to reduce the cycling time, but usually the secondary feedback loop is incorrectly designed and the droop error results. New concepts and techniques are introduced for analyzing the dynamics of a secondary feedback loop, and new design criteria are derived whereby the benefits of secondary feedback can be obtained without incurring the droop penalty."
"This bibliography of more than 200 references has been selected to provide a background for research and development activities in temperature control and electric heating. In the first section of the bibliography the references are listed in the numerical order in which they relate to the companion paper, \"Secondary Feedback in ON-OFF Electric Heating Processes.\" In the second part they are indexed under the salient subject headings."
"In an important and widely used class of industrial applications of electric process heating, instability can occur if the parameters of the process and its controller are selected arbitrarily. This phenomenon has long been familiar to designers of these processes, and over the years empirical rules have evolved intended to avoid incorporating such instabilities into the design. An analytical approach to determine the criteria for stability in these processes is presented and developed to provide new facile design techniques. These new methods are intended for the professional engineer engaged in the design of such industrial manufacturing processes or in similar applications of electric process heating."
"The blowing of a fuse involves two distinct functions-that of melting the fusible element, and then extinguishing the arc that is formed. The development of the coordinated system, that is, one in which only the fuse closest to the fault will open, is obtained if the sum of the melting and arcing energy of the smaller fuse is less than the energy necessary to melt the larger fuse."
"The nonvacuum welder is described, and scattering problems associated with bringing the beam into the air are discussed. Physical parameters associated with vacuum and non-vacuum welding are reviewed. A description is given of a newly designed 12-kW nonvacuum-electron beam welder whose welding head can be shifted from the horizontal to the vertical position and moved horizontally at speeds up to 140 in/min. Performance data on the variation of electrical characteristics with life are reviewed. Nonvacuum welding results are reviewed and applications of electron beam (EB) welding are briefly discussed."
"The life of any tubular electric heating element depends heavily on its coil operating temperature. Measurement of this temperature by conventional means is difficult because the coil is buried in magnesium oxide (MgO) insulation surrounded by a metal sheath. Coil temperatures can, however, be measured by making the coil from an alloy that changes resistance sharply with increasing temperature. Sample elements with Alumel resistors were first calibrated in a muffle furnace to determine resistance change with temperature, and then operated in free air. Coil temperature was studied as a function of watts per square inch of sheath and watts per square inch of wire, using coils with various stretch ratios, coil diameters, and wire diameters."
"A summary of the development of gas-fired thermo-electric power plants is given for the period from 1962 to 1966. Present-day thermoelectric generator equipment is portrayed with a description of good site preparation and installation steps showing the simplicity of operation. The power cost per kilowatt hour is portrayed for present-day equipment and compared with conventional power sources. Actual field installations are described in the major usage areas, including radio repeaters, railroad uses, remote telemetry, remote control, and cathodic protection. Other probable uses are summarized and a projection is given for the power range that thermoelectric generators will occupy in competition with other direct energy conversion devices in the foreseeable future."
"Several experimental vehicles have been built by the General Motors Corporation to investigate the technical feasibility of a battery-powered electric car using a variable speed induction motor. This paper describes the control scheme for the first experimental car-Electrovair I."
"Provides notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"The author discusses trends and cosiderations for the use of nuclear energy in the 1980s. He predicts taht the nuclear power systems which will be in use in the 1980s and beyond certainly will include the high-gain fast breeder reactor (FBR). With the successful application of the liquid metal FBR (LMFBR), fuel cycle costs of all the existing systems will become stabilized and predictable; without the LMFBR, future fuel cycle costs for the existing converter reactors will be uncertain at best. The development time required to bring a commercial LMFBR into being is appreciable. Schedule estimates vary from 12 to 20 years depending upon the approach and level of risk accepted. The present large-scale AEC program is committed to a long thorough component and fuel development program before undertaking the construction of a prototype LMFBR. This approach appears to be based upon the introduction of the commercial LMFBR in the mid-1980s. He is convinced that the development of the LMFBR will not truly be underway until there is a utility commitment to plant construction comparable to that undertaken by the utilities on light water recators (LWRs) in the late 1950s."
"A primary-controlled multiple-output silicon controlled rectifier (SCR) system is presented which requires only one output unit to be contained within the control loop; all others are slave to it. Design equations based upon a new theoretical model for SCRs are derived which provide the designer with both the static and dynamic response of the individual output units to steps in line and/or load. A computerized algorithm for the design of these output units is suggested and illustrated with an actual example."
"The use of pulse width modulation techniques applied to thyristor inverters to obtain variable frequency-variable voltage waveforms is reviewed. A number of basic modes of modulation are analyzed; harmonic content and principles of wave generation are investigated and compared to conventional forms of synthesis. The prime advantage of such systems is to preserve a near sine wave envelope rather than to eliminate specific harmonics. This allows a potentially wider range of speed control by keeping the harmonics in fixed but small proportions relative to the fundamental frequency. The principal harmonics which are presen-t are those induced by pulse modulation; these normally can be filtered by the inherent delays of the motor."
"This paper discusses the need to review and understand the present standard dealing with system voltage nomenclature and suggests specific changes in the identification and recommended limits for low-voltage systems."
"This paper discusses the need to review and understand the present standard for system voltage nomenclature for medium-voltage systems, the fundamental principles governing the establishment of voltage limits for medium-voltage systems, and the relationship which exists between medium-voltage systems and low-voltage systems."
"Defects in the quality of electric power supplied to modem loads such as computers and logic-control systems produce expensive and dangerous errors and failures. Defects can be categorized by magnitude and time duration, but information on occurrence in typical utility systems is lacking and quantitive means for description must be developed. The impact on critical loads can be reduced by improvements in utility system design, by increasing the load equipment tolerance, and by using rotating and static standby units between the source and the load."
"Over the past few years, several research programs have been conducted to determine the effect of welding current waveform characteristics on weld qualities.[1]-[3] It was recorded that gradual weld quality improvement was achieved as the output-current waveshape more nearly approached that of a symmetrical square wave. This work resulted in issuance of a patent on such a current waveform control.[4] A square-wave ac control unit has been developed and evaluated and its advantages, along with some practical information regarding weld quality, will be discussed."
"The construction and operation of back-to-back converters will be described. Each converter consists of six legs of series connected thyristors. The converters are then used in a pump back scheme wherein ac power is rectified and then inverted back into the ac mains. This allows investigation of the control and operation of high-power series connected thyristor converters. To simulate a HVDC link, the entire pump back system is biased 200 kV dc above ground."
"An all solid-state system for controlling the acceleration, speed, and load of central station steam turbines or the acceleration and speed of paper machine drive turbines is described. This new high-performance system eliminates the moving parts and gives lower drift and better reliability than previous solutions which used a motor driven potentiometer or an integrator operational amplifier. A desired speed is preset in a digital register and the speed of the turbine is brought toward this desired value at a selected rate. A control is provided to hold any present operating speed indefinitely. For central station steam turbines, the same equipment is used for load control after synchronization. Since high precision is required, the system is digital and drives a simple digital to analog converter to provide the analog output signal. The equipment may be operated from a remote panel or by a digital computer."
"The maximum ratings of devices acceptable for the overcurrent protection of the components within the motor branch circuit are defined in the National Electrical Code.[1] Motor starters with thermal relays usually provide this protection at the normal operating overcurrents, while fuses or time-limit circuit breakers provide protection at overcurrents above the permissible operating values. The time-current characteristics of the components used for the protective function should be related in order to obtain the maximum degree of protection against overheating and the resultant damage due to excessive currents."
"While this discussion is limited to two specific systems, the design considerations presented can be applied effectively in the selection of equipment for any type of control system. The use of solid-state controls for the Colgate-Palmolive interface system and electromechanical controls for the Kitchens of Sara Lee interface system was clearly indicated by differing design requirements. In many cases, however, the choice will not be so apparent, and it is the responsibility of the designer or user, in each instance, to weigh and determine the relative importance of design considerations."
"Where several resistance welders are operating on the same line, overloads can frequently occur that are brought about by simultaneous firing of two or more machines. Such an overload will result in a line voltage drop, a consequent loss of heat and, therefore, a poor weld. An interlocking load control system prevents line overloads from occurring and assures good weld quality. This is accomplished simply by preventing two or more machines from welding at the same time or by a method of overload control employing digital voltage sensors that continuously monitor the line voltage to determine when it is permissible to start a weld."
"Closed-loop control of a 3-phase induction motor is investigated where the stator voltages are varied, at line frequency, by the controlled firing of silicon-controlled rectifiers (thyristors). Steady-state torque-speed curves are given and the transient response of the drive to step changes of reference signal is shown. The rapid transient response of the drive due to transistorized thyristor firing circuits is demonstrated. The transfer function of the thyristor power modulator cannot be specified independently of the transfer function of the motor."
"This page or pages intentionally left blank."
"This index covers all technical items - papers, correspondence, reviews, etc. - that appeared in this periodical during the year, and items from previous years that were commented upon or corrected in this year. Departments and other items may also be covered if they have been judged to have archival value. The Author Index contains the primary entry for each item, listed under the first author's name. The primary entry includes the coauthors' names, the title of the paper or other item, and its location, specified by the publication abbreviation, year, month, and inclusive pagination. The Subject Index contains entries describing the item under all appropriate subject headings, plus the first author's name, the publication abbreviation, month, and year, and inclusive pages. Note that the item title is found only under the primary entry in the Author Index."
"This page or pages intentionally left blank."
"This page or pages intentionally left blank."
"This page or pages intentionally left blank."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Presents the table of contents for the proceedings."
"This paper shows how expressions for failure mechanisms may be derived and related to device reliability. The necessary conditions and limitations of such relations are examined, and their applicability to practical device reliability problems is assessed. The role of the reliability physicist in furnishing needed information and understanding at the mechanism level is indicated."
"Mathematical modeling in reliability engineering has been developed at two levels. In the first, a system or black box level, models were used for subsystem reliability apprtionment, synthesis of reliability predictions, and application of redundancy principles in design. The second level, developed as an adjunct to \"Physics of Failure\" studies, related the effects at atomic and nuclear levels of stresses on materials of component parts. These later models also led to analyses and comparisons of various physical degradation theories. A new intermediate level, developed by the Components and Materials Laboratory Hughes Aircraft Company, relates probable failure rates of component parts to their performance characteristics."
"A unique dc pin-to-pin test method for integrated circuits has been developed at the Goddard Space Flight Center. This test method permits each element in a circuit (resistor, diode, transistor, etc.) to be tested and evaluated individually rather than in combination, as is the case with the normally utilized integrated circuit functional testing technique. This dc pin-to-pin test method has been fully automated from testing to data analysis, making it a quick, economical and practical tool for integrated circuit testing, evaluation and/or screening."
"The procurement, screen and burn-in, and field history of the semiconductor parts in the Apollo Guidance Computer (AGC) is given. Both field failures and variability of performance through screen and burn-in are directly related to changes occurring in the parts manufacturer's facilities. The problems of developing and sustaining high reliability are discussed."
"Two effects, burst noise and walkout, that often accompany soft breakdown in silicon devices are discussed in this paper. It is shown that these effects are present in some devices as soon as they are manufactured and that these effects can be induced in other devices by high temperature storage or by the prolonged passage of large forward currents. The two effects are described and models of the mechanisms are presented. The models assume that both effects originate at the silicon-oxide to silicon interface and result from a stress-induced n+ accumulation layer at the surface of the n silicon."
"Phosphosilicate glass is known to stabilize silicon surface in planar structures against undesirable drift. It has been shown that the glass acts as a getter for sodium. The purpose of the experiments reported here is to clarity further the mechanism by which this glass improves silicon planar circuit reliability. Combined electrical (MOS) and radiochemical analysis of impurity and radiochemical measurement of phosphorus is done. Na24 Br82 impurity is diffused into samples before and after glassing all at 900°C. The most significant result is that, with glass overlay in place on 5000Å thermal oxide, no appreciable silicon surface potential shift occurs, even if Na concentration throughout SiO2 is around 1018 cm-3. In addition, the Na does not appreciably drift in tge SiO2 during 50 min. at 200°C with fields of 106 v/cm. It is concluded that, in addition to gettering of Na by the glass, improved stability results because the glassing process renders Na in the oxide neutral. Detailed profiles show Na and Br trapping occurs at the glass/oxide interface as well as within the glass."
"The greatly improved understanding of thermally oxidized silicon surfaces has led to a much clearer picture of the effects of the surface on the characteristics of p-n junctions. This paper reviews recent work in this area. The effect of surface fields on the current-voltage characteristics of p-n junctions and junction transistors is considered. It is shown that changes in these characteristics can be due to: (i) recombination-generation at the oxide-silicon interface; (ii) breakdown -- avalanche or Zener -- of the junction between inversion layer and the interior of the semiconductor induced by the incident surface fields; and (iii) modulation of the breakdown voltage of the metallurgical junction. The implications of these phenomena on the reliability of junction devices is discussed."
"Planar devices of almost every producer show to some extent serious degradation failures under heavy work conditions. A collector base voltage test at high temperature inverts often the n+-collector surface into a p-layer. High collector leakage currents are resulting. An emitter-base cut off-test at a reverse current of some mA destroys locally the emitter base junction at its surface. A strong decrease of the current amplification factor is resulting. Both failure mechanisms are analysed, some technological solutions to these problems are given."
"Charge and interface states are introduced into the oxide in an MOS capacitor by producing avalanche break-down at the semiconductor surface. Both the charge trapped in the oxide and the interface states can be annealed out at low temperatures."
"In order to produce reliable high yield integrated circuits, it is imperative that the device be \"clean\" or free of contaminants. The effect on device stability of the cleaning solvents, deionized water, trichloroethylene (TCE) and isopropyl alcohol (IPA) has been investigated. An \"industry standard\" solvent, trichloroethylene, can have deleterious effects on device stability if used improperly. The effective Conductivity Decay Trace tool is described."
"Crystallographic defects cannot be avoided in manufacturing semiconductor devices. Even if dislocation-free starting material is used, dislocations and other defects can be introduced through the manufacturing process. The influence of such defects upon device properties is reviewed. The scanning oscillator (SOT) approach to achieve the control of structural defects in semiconductor device fabrication is discussed. Critical fabrication steps are pinpointed through SOT charts. Such charts are obtained through correlation of SOT topographs and final yield maps. Typical examples are presented."
"Most high reliability semiconductor devices are encapsulated in hermetically sealed metal enclosures. Lower cost, accompanied, however, by lower reliability, has been obtained with plastic encapsulations. A junction seal has been developed which consists of a metal-insulator-silicon system of materials comprised of the beam-lead contact(1) in combination with a silinitride overcoat(2) on silicon planar devices. The junction seal offers both low cost technology and high reliability(3) equivalent to that of the hermetically sealed metal encapsulation."
"Silicon nitride passivated integrated circuits have been shown to exhibit exceptional stability to inversion after reverse bias accelerated stressing up to 1000 hours at 175°C. Various oxide-nitride structures compatible with large scale manufacturing were investigated. Stress data is presented as a function of the process used, and it is shown that the limiting factor to device stability is the cleanliness of the SiO2 interlayer."
"This method consists of two parts: (1) determination of thermal resistance from the diffused junction to a thermal reference plane through the use of the diode equation relation; and (2) the thermal resistance from the diffused junction to the joining pad and the thermal resistance from the pad at the substrate surface to the substrate bottom using a thick film cobalt oxide thermistor."
"The thermal behavior of a transistor is very important to its reliability. However, this behavior is complicated by the nonuniformity of the operating temperature and its dependence on operating conditions. An understanding of this behavior is necessary to accurately interpret reliability data and to establish more effective reliability screening procedures. The measurement of thermal impedance or thermal operating stress of a transistor is also complicated by the junction temperature nonuniformity and dependence upon operating conditions. Great care must be taken in using electrical methods to measure thermal impedance since it is not easy to determine what the indicated value represents. Because of the interdependence of most parameters used for reliability measurements and testing, it appears necessary to use a multi-parameter analysis on reliability data to obtain effective screening. This analysis should determine not only maximum value limites of each parameer but also limits relative to the values of other parameters. Reliable operation would correspond to regions in multiparameter space which are not necessarily bounded by a specific value of each parameter."
"Exeriments have shown that some localized P-N Junction defects can be located and exposed for analysis by making a metallurgical cross section of the junction while its abnormal reverse current-voltage characteristic is being monitored on a curve tracer. The gradual improvement of the anomalous characteristic indicates that the cross section surface is passing through the defect region. Analysis of the exposed defect may then yield defect size, current densities, carrier generation rates and other information."
"In many applications of silicon epitaxial layers grown on silicon substrates it is necessary to oxidize the substrate and then remove the oxide prior to epitaxial deposition. This oxidation step is found to produce a greatly increased density of stacking faults in the deposit. This anomalous increase in stacking faults can be eliminated if the back (undeposited) substrate surface is treated either to abrasive processes such as lapping and scribing or to a boron gettering process prior to oxidation. Both types of treatment are like-wise found to eliminate saucerlike pits observed in oxidized slices after structural etching. The incidence of these pits is closely correlated with the incidence of stacking faults in the grown layer It is concluded that the pits represent precipitates of fast diffusing impurities and are probable nucleation sites for stacking faults."
"The advantages of using the scanning electron microscope (SEM) in the study of failure modes and/or general component quality is discussed. Examples are given of studies performed on various components which, because of their irregular shape or small size, posed significant and sometimes insurmountable difficulties to their examination using conventional microphotographic techniques. Illustrations are given of the application of the SEM to the study of various anomalies in semiconductors and wire platings. Specifically, these include such semiconductor problems as opens in the metallization over steps in the silicon dioxide, cracks in bonds and silicon chips, etc. Where practical, illustrations of photographs taken with the SEM are compared with those taken using conventional photomicroscopy."
"A group of high gain, small signal, NPN switching transistors were built to a high reliability specification which included pre-encapsulation processing controls and post-encapsulation screening. More than two years after fabrication an excessive number of failures (about 1%) was experienced. These failures were catastrophic in nature, permanently or intermittently open-circuited, and occurred both in fabricated, previously operational equipment, and in fresh, unused stock. Examination of opened units indicated that poor workmanship and quality control were responsible for about half the failures. In each of the remaining units, the fault was determined to be an open circuit in the base, and was localized by electrical microprobing to be in the metallization at the oxide step at the base contact window. However, inspection with optical microscopes at magnifications up to 1000 X did not disclose the exact location of the break in the metallization. (See Figures 1, 2, and 3.) Because of the possible latent nature of the failures, the vendor submitted newly fabricated units in which the metallization process was identical to that of the original process. No essential differences were detected between the older and newer devices. The Scanning Electron Microscope (SEM) was introduced to the problem and spectacularly demonstrated its power as a failure analysis tool. Characteristics of the metallization faults were clearly revealed. Figure 40shows that only about 1000 to 1500 Å of aluminum remains after etcIing (but before alloying) of the 8000 Å deposited. Some small void areas are also visible at the step."
"Slices provided with a normal thermal oxide and a source for minority carriers, but without metallisation, were subjected to electron bombardment, similar to that normally used in the Stereoscan Electron Microscope. This produced considerable changes in the oxide charge, together with a large increase in the number of interface states. These effects should be taken into consideration when using a Stereoscan Electron Microscope for the investigation of the electrical surface parameters of planar silicon devices."
"The process of electrotransport in Al thin films was directly observed by transmission electron microscopy. As expected, it was seen that hole formation occured in regions where the electron flow was in the direction of increasing temperature. Hillocks and whiskers were seen to form where the electron flow was in the direction of decreasing temperature. Cine films taken of the process show the holes to grow predominately by a transverse movement of narrow fingers which ultimately coalesce and lead to a catastrophic strip burn out."
"A failure mode commonly found in high power devices and integrated circuits appears when aluminum conductors carry current densities in excess of 105 amperes per square centimeter at temperatures above 100°C. The mode of failure is an open circuit which often is observed as a \"crack\" in the aluminum and is commonly referred to as \"cracked stripe\" or \"disappearing aluminum.\" This paper presents a study of this failure mode which has been identified with the mass transport of aluminum by momentum exchange between activated aluminum ions and conducting electrons. The activation energy for the reaction has been obtained and equations relating temperature, current density and film structure to conductor life are presented. The activation energy appears to be identical to that for the lattice self-diffusion of aluminum modified by factors involving both surface diffusion and grain-boundary diffusion. These latter two factors are important in films formed by the condensation of aluminum vapor."
"Materials and techniques used for metalization and bonding of silicon devices, particularly integrated circuits, are reviewed, and available data on the reliability of various structures, and on failure mechanisms, are discussed. Metalization systems considered include Al, Mo-Au and Ti-Pt-Au. Bonding methods considered include thermocompression and ultrasonic wire bonding, plus face-down bonding and soldering techniques. Metalization and bond failures are the principal modes of failure in integrated circuits. At high stress levels, inherent failure modes are most significant; these inherent failure modes are not, however, necessarily a factor in reliability at rated stress levels. Manufacturing defects are a major cause of failures at rated stress levels. At present there are no indications of a significant reliability advantage for any bonding or metalization system for general integrated circuit usage. It is predicted that Al will continue to be the most widely used metalization system, with an increasing usage of ultrasonic bonding and face-down bonding techniques."
"Failure mechanism in interconnect systems employed in semiconductor devices have been reviewed and analyzed in some detail1 from the early purple plague producing aluminum-gold system to the latest platinum-titanium-gold beam lead process. It is shown that intermetallic compound formation occurs in all the systems studied. In the aluminum-gold system, the formation of the purple plague compound and other intermetallics is catalyzed by the presence of silicon, causing rapid degradation of bond strength. The compound formation up over the oxide is accompanied by void formation as a result of Kirkendall effect, leading to mechanically open bonds. Compound formation is found or may be expected in all the interconnect systems analyzed. The only interconnect system free of these problems is the all aluminum system."
"At current densities of about 3 × 106 A/cm2 evaporated aluminium contacts on silicon become degraded in 1 to 3 hours at about 250°C. At low magnifications the degraded contacts appear to have blackened, but further examination shows their surfaces to have become roughened, with the appearance of discrete regions of a silicon-rich phase in the aluminium. This degradation is accompanied by irreversible increases in the room temperature sheet resistance of the contacts."
"A study of the mechanisms of failure in ohmic and expanded contacts, including metal-semiconductor contacts and bonds to metalization in semiconductor devices, indicates that within a number of systems degradation or catastrophic failure has been produced by diffusion which produces solid solutions and/or compound formation. A great many systems are thermodynamically capable of interaction, but the important consideration is not whether they interact at all but whether the reaction proceeds at a rate which will result in metallurgical changes which adversely affect device reliability. The material systems studied are used or are considered for use in the fabrication of semiconductor devices. The systems include Ag-Cr, Ag-Ni, Ag-Pb, Ag-Sn, Al-Au, Al-Cr, Al-Ni, Al-Si, Al-SiO, Al-SiO2, Al-(AlxSiOy), Al-Ta, Al-Ti, Au-Cr, Au-Mo Au-Ti, Cr-Cu, Cr-Ta, Al-(Ni-Cr), Au-(Ni-Cr), Au-(Sb-Sn), Ti-Al-Si and Ti(Pt-Si)."
"The impact of hard-vacuum environment upon fuse performance is considered. It was found that by controlling the sealed-in atmosphere as well as its leak rate level, fuse stability could be augmented. Also, development work is cited on a solid state fuse: one that should have extremely stable characteristics in a vacuum."
"Recent experience with damaged components because of electrical overstress prompted reevaluation of the current capacity of small dimension wires and metallic film interconnects. It was part of the investigation to relate the damage ovserved to a quantitative description to the stress in terms of energy and duraction. Evaluation of component capabilities in relation to component design and environment then determine if that component is suitable for the particular application. From this information, recommendations on component design or application may be advanced to preclude recurrence. Quantitative description of damage identify if the faulting mechanism is inherent in the component or its intended environment, or whether the damage was a random occurrence. From a description of the physical aspects of the damage and knowledge of the thermodynamic environment, the energy responsible for the damage is otained. The energy sources are then identified and the potential recurrence of such damage evaluated. A physical model to support the experimental work, applicable to extended physical situations, has been developed and verified. Rates of mass evaporation with respect to energy are established. Transfer rates of energy to the supporting substrate are established."
"During a program to develop high reliability, subminiature ceramic capacitors, it was noted that with sustained d-c voltage at elevated temperatures, dielectric breakdown occurred only in units whose previous voltage vs. current characteristics had been significantly non-ohmic. More specifically, these units showed a relationship of the form, log IE ∝ B √F which is similar to that for Schottky emission. Oxygen concentration cell experiments indicated that ionic charge transport contributed appreciably to conductivity for these units, but not for reliable units whose IE vs. V characteristics were ohmic. As expected for a process involving ionic motion, the degradation of the non-ohmic units was time dependent, and could be accelerated by increases in temperature and the applied field strength. A possible mechanism is proposed to account for the behavior of the unreliable units."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"The known result for the output reading of a quasi-peak detector to periodic pulse inputs is here extended to cover inputs made up of regularly repeated pulses of the same shape, but with random amplitudes. The cosine envelope was chosen for the pulse shape and is viewed as a satisfactory approximation for the typical IF amplifier impulse response. The probability distribution for the pulse amplitude was assumed uniform over an amplitude interval; the latter is a parameter in the analysis so that the result applies, at one extreme, to pulses ranging randomly from zero amplitude to some maximum, and at the other extreme, to fixed amplitude pulses. Solutions are provided for low-frequency inputs-such as would be developed at the output of an IF amplifier followed by an envelope detector, and RF inputs-such as would be found directly at the IF amplifier output."
"The problem of low-frequency shielding of a loop axially perpendicular to a plane shield of infinite extent is analyzed by 1) the thin shield work of S. Levy, 2) solution of the vector wave equation, and 3) application of the transmission theory of shielding of Schelkunoff. Experimental data are obtained and compared with results of parts 1) and 3) in the frequency range 100 Hz to 50 kHz. The first analytical technique is not general, and the limits of applicability of the results are discussed. In the second solution, which is general, expressions are derived for the total electric and magnetic fields on both sides of and within the shield. The resulting expression for shielding effectiveness is not solved because of its complexity. The results of the third theory are adapted to the problem. The shielding effectiveness expression S = R + A + B is computer evaluated for the six shields considered (1/16-inch and 1/8-inch thick aluminum, copper, and steel). Although some approximations are made, this analytical method is the most useful in predicting the insertion loss of the shield, since the theory includes those parameters neglected in the first analytical technique."
"Public lands under the jurisdiction of the United States Forest Service include mountain peaks which overlook metropolitan areas and which are singularly suited for radio transmitter and receiver sites. These favored mountaintops have become concentrated electromagnetic environments, raising interrelated problems of electromagnetic compatibility and public land use. The Forest Service has the responsibility for land use, including protection of the investment equity of existing users. The responsibility for spectrum management lies with the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) and the Interdepartment Radio Advisory Committee (IRAC) of the Office of Director of Telecommunications Management. All electromagnetic compatibility problems must be worked out between the various users of the site. These problems, with existing and proposed practices to help in their solution, are discussed."
"J.E. Bridges, coauthor of the above paper, which appeared on pp. 174-186 of the December, 1966, issue of this Transactions, has requested that the following corrections be made. In 'A Circuit A pproach to Shielding,' p. 178, second paragraph, the standard skin depth relationship δ is corrected as are equations (15) and (17)."
"An article by Skomal and the power density spectrum of random impulse noise are discussed."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Papers published in IEEE Transactions on Electromagnetic Compatibility  should be designed to serve the members of IEEE and G-EMC. This can best be done by 1) maintaining technical standards, 2) publishing tutorial articles of timely interest, and 3) publishing new developments in the various areas of interest to the Group."
"Lists the institutions that support this publication."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"A new approach to the prediction of electromagnetic compatibility between possible culprit and victim cases is introduced. It is shown that this approach, based on statistical descriptions of case emission and case susceptibility, leads directly to the determination of the probability of interference between randomly oriented equipments in operational situations. Results of tests made using a technique to statistically describe case emissions indicate that greater measurement accuracy and repeatability can be obtained with this technique than is inherent in the case emission measurement methods currently in use and recommended by most specifications. Measurements made on culprit sources in a typical laboratory work area using the statistical technique were found to routinely yield results within + 1.5 dB of corresponding values measured in a free space or anechoic chamber environment. When the technique was used with a hooded probe antenna, equally precise results were obtained in a shielded enclosure. Used in conjunction with appropriate statistical descriptions of case susceptibility, case emission data such as those accumulated with the statistical technique discussed could be used to predict the probability of electromagnetic compatibility in actual equipment lashups."
"Convenient expressions are derived which permit accurate determination of induced interference in open (unshielded) wire and shielded wire (or coaxial) lines due to ac and transient currents. Curves and tables are presented for obtaining key parameters in the calculation of interference. The limitations of the derived expressions are set forth and an example interference problem is solved. Experimental verification of the analysis is presented."
"It is generally impractical to filter low-frequency electromagnetic pulse (EMP) signals from victim circuits. Twisting signal pair conductors is helpful but often results in insufficient isolation. The remainder must be provided by shielding. Highly permeable ferritic materials have generally been found to provide maximum shielding from low-frequency magnetic fields. It is shown that this may not be the case when the signal source is relatively distant from the shield. With large separation, there appears to be a greatly increased mismatch between the wave impedance at the shield and the intrinsic impedance of the metal. This results in much greater reflection of the impinging wave than occurs for the same signal strength with small source to shield separation. The mismatch is greatest with a highly conductive shield material. All common highly permeable materials have low relative conductivity. High permeability does not improve the shielding effectiveness at low audio frequencies because no significant attenuation occurs as the wave passes through the shield. It is concluded that materials such as copper or aluminum are logical choices for shielding circuits from distant, high-intensity, low-frequency EMP."
"It is proposed that channel bandwidth assignment be determined by the criterion that a prescribed fraction of the total radiated power of a system be contained within the channel. To apply this criterion to any system, its spectral distribution must be accurately known. Illustrative examples are given for this channel bandwidth computation when the output spectrum is, 1) optical (Lorentzian) shape, 2) a Gaussian distribution, and 3) an AM voice signal."
"When substantial harmonic power exists at the input of a radiating antenna, a lobe structure will result that may create a substantial interference problem. In addition, the privacy of the radiating source may be severely hampered. These harmonic fields are generally dependent upon: 1) the order of the harmonic relative to the geometry of the antenna, 2) the impedance the higher harmonic sees at the antenna input, 3) the power available at the given harmonic. For purposes of providing a measure of the seriousness of this problem, a harmonic analysis of a particular type of antenna configuration is examined, namely, that of a center-fed, thin half-wave dipole with director parallel to a reflecting plane. The active dipole is assumed λ0/4 away from the reflecting plane and the director λ0/8 away from the active dipole. As a criterion to determine the worst case situation, the antenna is assumed matched at each odd harmonic examined, and equal power is assumed fed at the input. The resulting field patterns show: 1) The presence of the director results in the introduction of sidelobes at the fundamental frequency in azimuthal plane. 2) The presence of the director plays less of a role the higher the harmonic. 3) In the meridian plane the sidelobes become more intense exceeding the forward-lobe intensity as the order of the harmonics is increased. 4) In the azimuthal plane, the sidelobe intensity approaches but does not exceed the forward-lobe intensity."
"Assuming that the ac-source impedance has a pure resistance only for the fundamental-frequency component and zero impedance elsewhere, the charging characteristics of a linear detector are analyzed, and the charge time is determined as a function of the circuit constants. Useful information on the design of a linear detector with specified charge and discharge times is given. The American Standards Association (ASA) method for measuring the charge time of a linear detector is also studied, and an improved simpler method is suggested."
"Previous studies with some reflector type antennas have shown that wide-angle radiation and consequently radiofrequency interference (RFI) can be reduced by using choke blinders on the E-plane edges of feed horns. These choke blinders, which are arrays of choke slots or grooves, were designed such that the depth and the separation of the slots were a quarter wavelength. Subsequent efforts have been concerned with how various design parameters affect the performance of the choke blinders. Experimental studies were conducted over a wide-frequency band to observe the effects of varying the number, width, spacing, and depth of the choke slots or grooves and of varying the angle, position, and length of blinders on an X-band hoghorn. The data presented enable one to make a judicious choice of appropriate design parameters."
"Radio interference data that have been measured throughout the frequency range of 30 Hz to 1 GHz on power transmission lines, automotive traffic, and RF stabilized arc welders by many investigators have been assembled, converted to a common system of units, and collectively plotted. The resulting composite presentations permit an assessment of the relative interference levels produced by the three types of radio noise sources. It is concluded that below 25 MHz, lower voltage transmission, lines and RF stabilized arc welders are the major incidental radio noise sources when the observer is within 100 feet of the source. Above 40 MHz, automotive traffic and lower voltage transmission lines are the major radio noise sources with neither appearing to be consistently the greater when an observer is within 50 feet or less of the source."
"This paper deals with the problem of making frequency assignments to communications equipments in circumstances where spurious responses and intermodulation effects must be taken into account. The concept to be discussed makes use of mutual interference charts (MIC) to select the order of equipment assignment, the frequencies of assignment, and the effects of such decisions on subsequently assigned equipments. The assignment procedure is explained in some detail. In addition, those steps in the process that involve successive modification to the mutual interference charts are illustrated."
"A computer expression for predicting the shielding effectiveness of an infinite plane shield has been developed for low frequencies (below 50 kHz). It is shown that this expression, which arises as a special case of the solution of the general wave equation, is a sum of the attenuation term of Schelkunoff's transmission theory and a remainder, which is in integral but calculable form. The computed results are in excellent agreement with values obtained experimentally for aluminum, copper, and steel. Application to cases involving highly ferromagnetic materials is hampered by difficulties in determining permeability and its dependence on frequency and field strength."
"A generalized approach to EMC analysis and measurement requirements is given, considering relative parameter importance as well as the inherent uncertainties in input variables, output criteria, and consequent operational decision-making. A sample problem is provided illustrating the results obtained when three different criteria are employed."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Papers published in IEEE Transactions on Electromagnetic Compatibility  should be designed to serve the members of IEEE and G-EMC. This can best be done by 1) maintaining technical standards, 2) publishing tutorial articles of timely interest, and 3) publishing new developments in the various areas of interest to the Group."
"Lists the institutions that support this publication."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"The application of superconductivity to the problem of reducing radio frequency interference (RFI) is described. A lowloss, extremely narrowband superconducting filter was developed that is tunable from 6.3 to 21 MHz. This filter has an unloaded Q of 350 000 to 600 000 over the tuning band, bandwidth adjustable from 60 Hz to 50 kHz, calibrated external controls for frequency tuning and bandwidth adjustment, and good resettability and stability. An optimum circuit design provides minimum bandwidth variation with frequency tuning and minimum resonant frequency variation with changes in bandwidth. Performance tests on high-frequency receivers showed reductions in intermodulation interference susceptibility of 40 dB and improvements in FSK Teletype signals of 23 dB."
"In EMC measurements spectra generated by pulsed signals are often measured. To calculate the spectra theoretically, Fourier methods are usually used. The Fourier transform yields a spectrum which contains positive and negative frequencies. The exponential form of the Fourier series also yields a spectrum which contains positive and negative frequencies. However, the trigonometric form of the Fourier series yields a spectrum containing only positive frequencies. Since there seems to be some doubt about the physical interpretation of negative frequencies, the relationship between the double sided spectrum of the exponential Fourier series and the single sided spectrum of the trigonometric Fourier series is shown. The reasoning is then extended to the Fourier transform to show the relationship between the double and single sided spectrum obtained by the Fourier transform. A method of obtaining spectral levels for positive frequencies only using the Fourier transform is shown."
"A method of calculating the coupling between lines at high frequencies is described. The method involves a small modification in previously presented equations which were limited to frequencies typically below 200 kHz. Experimental data are presented which show the modified equations are accurate well into the megahertz frequency range."
"A digest of highlights is presented on the most significant U.S. contributions to the measurement of attenuation, impedance, phase, field strength, thermal noise, current, and voltage at 30 kHz to 1 GHz. A total of approximately 30 contributions are digested. The following accomplishments are among them: a supersensitive detector for a complex-insertion-ratio measurement system having accuracies of about 0.0005 dB/10 dB at 30 MHz; exact equations for mutual and self-inductance of various combinations of filaments, tapes, and bars; a modified Twin-T-Bridge for measuring resistances of 100 to 10 000 ohms to 15 MHz; a set of Q-factor standards for frequencies to 45 MHz based on data and experience accumulated over five years; a unique adjustable characteristic-impedance coaxial line; measurement of Q's greater than 100 000 of cryogenic circuits at frequencies to 300 MHz; a novel Tee-junction to enable calibrations of voltmeters of any practicable input impedances with VSWR's ranging fiom 1 to 200, to 1 GHz and higher; a miniaturized dipole-antenna field strength meter, employing a semiconducting plastic transmission line, to measure complex near-zone fields of 0.1 to 1000 V/m, from 150 kHz to 30 MHz; and a prototype 3-MHz model of precision thermal noise-power comparators for an equivalent noise-temperature range of 75 to 30 000° K at accuracies of 0.2 to 1 percent."
"This report was prompted by many questions relative to flexible bonding configurations and their effectiveness at high radio frequencies (RF). Tests were conducted primarily to compare the impedances of various flexible bonding configurations and to gain a better insight into RF bonding characteristics. Test samples were company-fabricated solid flat straps, commercially available braid types, and MS cable types. The measurements indicated no major differences in the inductance values of the various samples."
"The demands for more accurate instrumentation and checkout systems have led to new electromagnetic compatibility (EMC) requirements, which are accomplished by careful design considerations. An early approach to electromagnetic interference (EMI) control usually can result in a saving of long, expensive hours of redesign as well as program schedule delays. The reduction of EMI does not lend itself to hard and fast rules applicable to all situations. The intention of this paper is to provide suggestions which, if followed, will minimize the EMC problems."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Papers published in IEEE Transactions on Electromagnetic Compatibility  should be designed to serve the members of IEEE and G-EMC. This can best be done by 1) maintaining technical standards, 2) publishing tutorial articles of timely interest, and 3) publishing new developments in the various areas of interest to the Group."
"Lists the institutions that support this publication."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"A major sensitivity limitation common to most microwave CW balanced-bridge systems must be attributed to bridge distortion noise, caused by residual FM in the transmitted signal. The described superheterodyne transceiver minimizes this limit for a narrowband K-band bridge system by utilizing precise, coherent IF detection. A phase-locked local oscillator provides means for an arbitrary, stable preselection of the in-phase or quadrature component with the help of a calibrated IF delay line. The transmitter is either 1) frequency-stabilized to a sample cavity by means of a high-gain AFC loop, or 2) phase-locked simultaneously to a K-band harmonic of a VHF quartz oscillator and to a tunable VHF oscillator (VFO). This yields flexibility in a wide range of applications, such as measuring small reflection coefficients, dielectric constants, or magnetic tensor susceptibilities (e. g., in ESR spectroscopy). Analytical expressions for phase and amplitude distortions are derived for a bridge containing one high-Q element. In the systems theory of operation, analytical formulas for the noise spectral densities and the loop errors are given, together with numerical examples. The additional receiver noise, due to residual FM and increased bridge power, is demonstrated by means of measured IF-noise spectra. A cavity-Q measurement with ±1 percent accuracy, using 5-μW incident bridge power, proves the system's capability for measurements of small reflection coefficients."
"An expression is derived for the maximum balance obtainable with a magic-T microwave bridge as a function of the variance of the frequency modulation (FM) noise pedestal of the microwave power source when one arm of the bridge is terminated by a dispersive component. This expression is verified experimentally and the long-term stability of the balance with/without a dispersive component is studied."
"Time standards are usually characterized by terms such as \"stability,\" \"accuracy,\" and \"precision,\" without general agreement as to what these terms mean. As a logical substitute to these terms, \"relative instability,' \"reliability,\" and \"unreproducibility\" are offered. Relative instability is the standard deviation of several measurements of the frequency ratio of any two clocks, divided by the square soot of the mean μ of the time intervals during which the measurements are made. The main advantage of this term is that it is independent of μ. Reliability is identified with the number r of clocks being intercompared and is required to be ≥ 3. Unreproducibilify is the standard deviation from unity of the frequency ratios of all pairs of the r clocks."
"If the individual outputs of a cascade of bistable multivibrators are combined, we get useful waveshape, spectral, and probability-density function properties. Four modes are examined: equal amplitude, amplitude proportional to square root of frequency, amplitude proportional to frequency, and amplitude inversely proportional to frequency."
"A modified technique using a partially filled rectangular cavity-resonator is described. This technique is analogous to the technique described earlier by the author in which a partially filled tunable cylindrical cavity resonator is employed. The theory and the method of operation of this technique are discussed, and the special advantages resulting from its use are pointed out."
"This paper describes a telemetering unit which monitors a varying dc voltage over a chosen period and then generates a code pulse train indicating the minimum and maximum values of voltage over that period. The unit was developed to permit remote monitoring of a radio transmitter output power and to use that transmitter to telemeter the information to a distant receiver."
"An improved electronic scheme has been developed for measuring exploding wire energy as a function of time. It eliminates the problem of serious errors due to induced voltages resulting from high rates of change of current. Such induced voltages can rise to many tens of kilovolts, completely masking the desired signals, unless they are nullified in some fashion. In this scheme only passive circuit elements are used (in contrast to dynamic elements such as amplifiers used in previous schemes) to sense signals and to prohibit or effect cancellation of unwanted induced voltages. It is a useful research tool having application to all types of wire-exploder circuitry (both lumped-constant and traveling wave), to any study or application of exploding wires, and with broad application to any rapid deposition of electrical energy in a resistance. It represents a simplification of measurement technique and circuitry while permitting greater accuracy and operating convenience compared to previous methods. Exploding wire energy up to 9.5 kJ was measured with this scheme applied to a lumped-constant, capacitor-bank type of exploder."
"The availability of precision coaxial connectors which meet the specifications of the IEEE Subcommittee on Precision Coaxial Connectors has removed an important obstacle to the development of higher accuracy measurements systems over the frequency range from audio to 18 GHz. Some of the advances in techniques and standards which have resulted or are presently possible for measurements of impedance, VSWR, attenuation, phase, power, and dielectric properties of materials are reviewed. Problems relating to the connection of unknowns and standards to the terminals of an instrument are discussed with respect to measurements at audio frequencies, radio frequencies, and microwave frequencies."
"Expressions are derived for the signal-to-noise ratios of transistorized constant-current anemometers and constant-temperature anemometers. It is shown that the respective signal-to-noise ratios (in the same bandwidth) are not equal, but do not differ appreciably in a practical case. The minimum detectable signal (defined on the basis of unity signal-to-noise ratio and expressed in terms of equivalent turbulence intensity) of a constant-temperature anemometer, operated with a typical 5 micron diameter tungsten hot-wire transducer at a mean air flow velocity of 50 m/s, is shown to be 0.3 percent turbulence, in a direct current to 100 kHz frequency range."
"For the purpose of determining the correlation between two given stationary time functions e1(t) and e2(t), a correlator capable of providing the value of the correlation coefficient was developed. The theory of operation and performance evaluation is discussed. The minimum discernible correlation coefficient of the correlator is found to be about 0.01."
"Langmuir-probe and double-probe characteristics corresponding to time-varying plasma properties can be displayed instant by instant on the screen of an oscillosope, provided the variation is periodical or at least meets certain requirements of reproducibility. The technique used, essentially an electronic stroboscope, has been described elsewhere under the name \"plasmograph.\" The aim of this paper is to describe several recent improvements of this technique."
"This paper describes a new synchronous switch employing solid-state electronics, that extends the usefulness of the CRO in viewing transient phenomena in electrical circuits by means of a repetitive trace on the CRO. This device is particularly useful in normal research projects and has a unique place in repetitive and \"one-time\" switching in power system models such as the conventional transient analyzer and the newer EHV simulators."
"This paper discusses the design and test results of a proposed electromagnetic component, to be named the Vectorsyn, which provides an improved means of mass element restraint and support for a three axes acceleration measurement system. The principle of operation of the Vectorsyn and a functional block diagram for a three axes acceleration measurement system are given. An expression is derived for the first-order perturbation in the output force of the Vectorsyn, which becomes zero under an ideal operating point. However, realizability of the desired operating point is determined by the relative magnitude of various physical parameters, such as the ratio of coil inductive reactance to effective resistance. The relationship between various parameters gives a bounded region. For physical realizability of the desired operating point, certain parameters must fall within this region. The experimental procedure is briefly explained and typical test results are given. The data indicate that the perturbation forces are less than the order of 1 part per 106 per microinch of displacement of the mass element. The test data support the conclusion that Vectorsyn force generators potentially are suitable for providing the means of mass element restraint and support for a three axes acceleration measurement system."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Prospective authors are requested to submit new, unpublished manuscripts for inclusion in the upcoming event described in this call for papers."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"The Mariner IV occultation experiment imposed unique requirements upon the NASA/Jet Propulsion Laboratory Deep Space Instrumentation Facility. It was necessary to measure extremely small deviations in the frequency to a few parts in 109. The instrumentation used and the results obtained are described."
"Second-order RC filters are synthesized using two voltage amplifiers with gains A1 and A2. As the natural frequency depends on A1 only, and the damping factor depends on A1 and A2, these factors can be chosen consecutively by varying the two gains. The passive components need not have variable or accurate values. This feature is particularly useful in the realization of filters operating below 1 Hz, and cutoff frequencies down to at least 10-3 Hz can be obtained by exploiting the high input resistance of MOS transistors."
"A strip-chart translator was developed to convert complex strip-chart records (for example, those obtained from radio propagation tests) into digital format, on punched tape, to allow analysis by electronic computer. An operator is required to follow the chart trace with a cursor mark, but the translation process is otherwise automatic. The detail contained in such record traces has so far precluded the use of a fully automatic translation process."
"A simple high-sensitivity receiver for simultaneously measuring the amplitude and phase of signals at radio and microwave frequencies is described. The receiver is built, for the most part, with standard (microwave) components and employs a modulation technique. The receiver sensitivity, depending on the information bandwidth, is of the order of -100 dBm. Information bandwidths ranging from a few Hz to several MHz are easily achieved."
"A new wideband true rms-to-dc converter is described, covering the ranges of 10 Hz to 100 kHz and 30 mV to 1 kV full scale, with crest factors in excess of 7 to 1. Operation is based on use of two precision dual-heater thermistors in an automatic double bridge, by means of which the temperatures of both thermistors are maintained constant to better than 0.002°C. Converter linearity is 0.02 percent over a four-to-one input range, with response typically 2.5 seconds to settle within 0.1 percent of final value. Applications range from ac signal conditioning for digital voltmeters to 0.01 percent ac-ac transfer work-with nonsinusoidal wave forms as well as the quasi-sinusoids typical in field measurement situations."
"This paper describes a zero-crossing principle for detecting weak narrow-band signals immersed in Gaussian noise. This principle leads to a zero-crossing detector (detector II) which is relatively insensitive to system gain fluctuations. Moreover, for the detection of a weak sine wave in noise, zero-crossing detector II performs only 1.2 dB worse than the time-honored square-law detector. An application of the zero-crossing principle to the problem of incoherent detection of a stationary radar target in clutter is discussed."
"A method for designing a period-to-analog converter is described. The device accepts input signals of varying frequency and converts the period of the waveform to a time inverse voltage Vi(t). This voltage is sampled at the end of the period, and this information is held over the following interval. The analog derived from the input signal is a voltage proportional to the repetition rate. The approach to generating the time inverse voltage is based on Willer's general method of approximating decaying functions with a sum of exponential functions. The described method has been utilized to develop a device for monitoring physiological signals. Results demonstrating the performance of the instrument are presented. The method is directly applicable to function generation in general and could be of importance for analog computers."
"A technique capable of precise comparison of currents in different parts of a network or between currents in different networks is discussed. With proper conditions, this comparison can be done with negligible perturbation of the networks under measurement. Experiments on a coaxial system at 30 MHz are discussed."
"Significant advances have been achieved in high-voltage pulse attenuation and measurement fidelity by utilizing the principle of traveling-wave reflection at an abrupt impedance mismatch along a transmission line. Such \"reflection-type\" attenuators allow practically distortionless attenuation of the signal, independent of voltage level. Their rise-time response and attenuation factor can be known very accurately because they are free from voltage and temperature effects making them especially suited as high-voltage pulse calibration standards. The rise-time response for such attenuators can readily attain 100 ps or less, a practical limit being about 30 ps."
"A method which can be used to check the orientation angle of circular crystal plates to a high degree of accuracy is described. The method involves 1) making two readings on an X-ray goniometer, 2) determining a correction from a chart, and 3) applying this correction to one of the goniometer readings."
"A novel method for the measurement of very low turbulence intensities in fluids, based on a dual heat-transfer transducer and a cross correlator, is described. The minimum measurable turbulence intensity is shown to vary with the square root of the minimum detectable cross-correlation coefficient ρ. The effects of finite additive noise correlation and finite lateral separation between the transducer halves are studied. Details are given of an instrument measuring the normalized cross-correlation coefficient between two time-dependent signals in the frequency range 2 Hz-300 kHz with an accuracy of ±0.05ρ ±0.01. The described correlator is particularly suitable for measurements of quasi-stationary processes. A variation of 10 percent in the level of either input signal results in a correlation error of less than 0.6 percent."
"The electric field of an alternating-current solenoid of finite length in conducting media is investigated. The first-order (Hall) effect of an externally applied, constant, axial magnetic field on the electric field is considered. The coil impedance and the electromotive force induced in a certain closed path are calculated numerically for small frequencies."
"A digest of highlights is presented on the most significant U. S. contributions to the measurement of attenuation, impedance, phase, field strength, thermal noise, current, and voltage at 30 kHz to 1 GHz. A total of approximately 30 contributions are digested. The following accomplishments are among them: a supersensitive detector for a complex-insertion-ratio measurement system having accuracies of about 0.0005 dB/10 dB at 30 MHz; exact equations for mutual and self-inductance of various combinations of filaments, tapes, and bars; a modified Twin-T-Bridge for measuring resistances of 100 to 10 000 ohms to 15 MHz; a set of Q-factor standards for frequencies to 45 MHz based on data and experience accumulated over five years; a unique adjustable characteristic-impedance coaxial line; measurement of Q's greater than 100 000 of cryogenic circuits at frequencies to 300 MHz; a novel Tee-junction to enable calibrations of voltmeters of any practicable input impedances with VSWR's ranging from 1 to 200, to 1 GHz and higher; a miniaturized dipole-antenna field strength meter, employing a semiconducting plastic transmission line, to measure complex nearzone fields of 0.1 to 1000 volts per meter, from 150 kHz to 30 MHz; and a prototype 3-MHz model of precision thermal noise-power comparators for an equivalent noise-temperature range of 75 to 30 000°K at accuracies of 0.2 to 1 percent."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Prospective authors are requested to submit new, unpublished manuscripts for inclusion in the upcoming event described in this call for papers."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"A fluid mapper has been constructed whose boundaries act as though they were infinite in extent. This effect is achieved by using two interconnected flow spaces. An application of the device is illustrated and the accuracy is evaluated by means of a proposed quality factor."
"Recent interest in accurate dc measurements down to nanovolt levels has prompted the development of a wide voltage range potentiometer of a new type with 7 dial resolution and extremely high accuracy. The potentiometer design is almost perfectly \"neutral.\" All switch contacts and resistors of the main potentiometer operate at high voltage levels, and contribute thermal EMFs which are attenuated by a factor of ten thousand times (to less than 0.1 nanovolt levels) on the nanovolt range. The device serves as an \"autocertified\" voltage potentiometer standard. It is certified traceable to National Bureau of Standards units using previously published \" ratiometric\" techniques and is capable of direct reading accuracy without correction from 2 ppm on the 10-volt range to 10 ppm of setting ±1 nanovolt on the 0.001-volt range. The Thevenin equivalent source resistance of the instrument is approximately 2.5 ohms on the 0.001-volt range, reducing Johnson noise levels to less than 1 nanovolt with practical null detector smoothing times. The instrument is designed so that it can be used both as a potentiometer and as a 7-dial Kelvin-Varley divider. The control portion of the instrument is separately packaged and can convert dividers now in use to this new type of universal potentiometer standard. This paper includes a complete theoretical study of the design characteristics of this state of the art potentiometer, and an analysis of all sources of error in the completed instrument."
"The temperature compensated thermistor-power meter of the dual bridge design has for many years been the most widely used instrument for microwave power measurement. During these many years very little if anything has been written with regard to the manner or criteria for matching the thermistor beads. This paper attempts to fill that void. The procedure to match thermistor beads for less than 2 μW/°C drift is to be accomplished by pairing the dR/dt characteristic of each bead and adjusting the dP/dR characteristic for a match. dR/dt of the beads may be determined from resistance data at 90°C and 110°C, and the expression dR/dt = 9.4497 [ln Ra-1.11648 ln Rb + 0.61749] which is derived for 200 μoperating resistance thermistors. The thermistor beads are then paired by selecting such that dR1/dt and dR2/dt are within 1 percent of each other. The conditions necessary for matched dP/dR of the thermistor beads are developed and procedures indicated. The paired beads are installed in the thermistor mount and the constant dP/dR of each bead adjusted for equality by moving the heat sink of one of the thermistors until a balance of the slave bridge and master bridge is obtained simultaneously."
"The measurement of the effective resolution of nonwirewound potentiometers has been simplified by the development of test equipment which makes use of the \"resolution window\" concept, as set forth by Schneider and Silverman. This concept is briefly described again, and a method of mechanization is considered. Analytical and practical experience has shown that the sampling method is the most promising to date, and the development of equipment using this approach is therefore discussed in detail. The concept of the \"detection aperture\" is introduced and its use in predicting the effective sampling coverage is shown. As a result of these developments, a definite number can now be ascribed to a given nonwirewound potentiometer to describe its resolution capability. It is anticipated that the introduction of these ideas for resolution measurement will contribute materially to the establishment of resolution standards for nonwirewound potentiometers."
"The bolometer unit widely used for measuring microwave and millimeter wave power becomes more difficult to construct and obtain good performance, as the wavelength gets shorter. To overcome these difficulties, a new unit has been developed which has a very simple structure by virtue of a new matching procedure. The bolometer element is made of a thin metal film evaporated on a thin mica substrate, and its mount consists only of a short circuit and a flange. Experimental units have been designed at 35 GHz and 10 GHz, and these have demonstrated excellent characteristics, such as high efficiency, low VSWR, wide bandwidth, high power handing capacity, etc. The thermistor units applying the same matching theory are also investigated at 35 GHz and 50 GHz."
"A new type of microcalorimeter as the laser power standard in Japan has been developed at the Electrotechnical Laboratory. This is a double calorimeter in which the laser power is measured by a dc substitution method using the thermopile unit, and simultaneous measurement is also made using the Peltier cooling-type calorimeter by dc substitution. The CW power of the gas laser (He-Ne) is controlled with high stability (±0.05 percent) by the automatic power control system using the Faraday rotation component. By this method and equipment, the \"effective efficiency\" of the standard thermopile unit is determined precisely. The errors in this microcalorimetric technique are investigated with the aid of heat flow analysis and auxiliary experiments. As a result, the absolute accuracy of the CW power measurement of laser beams (6328Å, 1.15μ) is evaluated with high accuracy better than 0.5 percent. The experiments have been successful at 6328Å and 1.15 μ, and this method is considered to be available at the region of infrared and far-infrared wavelength."
"An accurate, semiautomatic method of calibrating high-resistance standards is described. Measurements of resistances between 109 and 1014 Ω at a minimum of 1 V or 10-12 A can be made with an accuracy better than 0.1 percent, each determination requiring typically from 0.5 to 50 s. The value of resistance is determined in terms of a fixed three-terminal capacitance, a resistance ratio, and a standard frequency, all being stable and accurately determinable quantities. The sources of errors and their minimization are discussed; the construction and operation of such a device are described."
"Two types of errors are caused by misaligned stators in the rotary-vane attenuator. For each type of error the actual attenuation will differ from the indicated attenuation values throughout most of the usable range of the attenuator. This analysis illustrates that these two types of errors are related to the technique of alignment used in establishing the zero reference of the rotating vane to the stator vanes. Equations pertaining to these errors are discussed and are solved with the aid of tables of attenuation error as a function of vane angle error for rotary-vane attenuators. Graphs of both types of errors are presented determining the parameters needed to establish limits of machining tolerances for each waveguide size."
"A system of RF voltage calibration in the VHF and UHF ranges is described. The primary voltage standard is a calorimetric power meter whose impedance is determined accurately. The working standards are thermal transfer instruments (thermal converters and micropotentiometers). The methods used to calibrate the working standards against the primary standard are described in detail. Then the calibration of transfer standards submitted by other laboratories is outlined, and procedures and practices which have been found successful are recommended for use by standardizing laboratories."
"An electronic analog computer remapper (reconstructing, mapping, and projecting analog computer) is studied, capable of reconstructing figures, graphs, shapes, etc., in three- or higher-dimensional spaces from their two-dimensional projections given in the form of drawings, slides, or photographs. The pattern of the reconstructed figure can then be distorted, remapped according to certain transformations, reprojected on desired planes to form new, differently parallaxed pictures of the reconstructed figure, or simply stored in a digital computer memory as a list of coordinates or vector components of points in space, together with their corresponding brightness values."
"In a dissipative medium, the radio-frequency input conductance of a linear dipole, whether a bare wire or an insulated wire with its terminals short-circuited to the medium, is simply related to the conductivity of that medium provided the electrical length of the dipole is short. Model measurements were made on dipoles in saline water of known conductivity to test the theory. The feasibility of deducing conductivity of the solution by using both types of antennas as probes was demonstrated. The technique has been utilized to evaluate the electrical conductivity of rock media from measurements on probes inserted into vertical drill holes. Examples are given of measurements variously to depths of 4000 ft. In one of the cases the rock type was (fractured) granite and, in another, anorthosite. In a geophysical crustal sense, data are typical of some near-surface or sedimentary rock conditions. Since such rock media are rarely uniform in their electrical characteristics, the deduced conductivity will be a gross average conductivity of that volume of the rock approximately within the antenna region of the probe."
"A new method for precise clocks comparison is described making use of the short rise time of the synchronizing pulse of a current TV picture signal. It is shown that by measuring simultaneously the time interval between one and the same selected TV frame synchropulse and the pulses derived from the respective clocks, these clocks may be compared with microsecond accuracy even if widely separated, provided that appropriate correction for the travel time of the synchropulse is applied. An experiment concerning international clock comparison between Prague and Potsdam is described, and the numerical results presented. Synchronization of clocks, separated by about 300 km, to about 2 μs was accomplished, and it appears that 0.1 μs is feasible. Further possible applications of this method are discussed."
"In many engineering problems, the power spectra of random signals have to be measured. In this paper, a method for estimating the unknown parameters in the power spectral density functions of discrete random processes is presented. The spectral density functions are represented by a ratio of two real polynomials in z. It is assumed that only a finite record of the random process is observed and no knowledge about its probability distribution is required. An estimation procedure is developed. It is shown that the denominator parameter estimates can be first obtained. Then the numerator parameters are estimated by filtering the poles from the spectrum. A four parameter example is given to demonstrate the method."
"The range and accuracy of resistance calibration can be increased by the use of series and parallel connections of four-terminal resistors. Low value resistors can be permanently connected in series and reconnected in parallel by using Hamon's1 technique to change resistance level without materially affecting resistance accuracy. The resistors are connected in parallel by attaching shorting bars to one terminal at each end of each resistor and attaching matched resistors in series with the other terminals. High accuracy can be attained even though lead and connection resistance are relatively high. The purpose of this paper is to provide a theoretical base and an error analysis to justify the use of the series-to-parallel transfer technique at low resistance levels. The analysis uses a four-terminal equivalent circuit suggested by Searle.2 The accuracy of series and parallel connections of groups of like resistors is investigated in terms of the equivalent circuit. Procedures are developed for determining the connection accuracy of a set of resistors in parallel or series."
"This paper presents a method for measurement of impedance through a transition from the slotted section transmission line to the load transmission line. The technique uses a lossless tuner as part of the transition and a precision transmission-line section. An example of a practical application of the method is given."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Prospective authors are requested to submit new, unpublished manuscripts for inclusion in the upcoming event described in this call for papers."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"In general, without a clock it is not possible to determine the range between a radio transmitting and receiving site by making only passive observations at the receiving site. However, if the medium is dispersive, signals transmitted simultaneously from the same site, at different carrier frequencies, will not arrive simultaneously at some distant point. Thus, the difference in arrival time is related to the observer's distance from the transmitter. This effect is considered in conjunction with the VLF two-frequency timing system."
"The essential nonlinearity characteristics of a phase-sensitive detector are studied theoretically, assuming that the input signal is a sine wave in the presence of additive narrow-band Gaussian noise. Three interesting cases of the nonlinearity of the phase-sensitive detector characteristics are analyzed by means of the expression which has been derived for the output signal-to-input noise ratio as a function of the input signal-to-noise ratio, the reference wave-to-noise ratio, and the phase angle between the input signal and reference wave. In the first case, the detector nonlinearity NA as a function of the input signal-to-noise ratio is determined. In the second and third cases, the detector nonlinearities NB and NC as a function of the phase angle between the input signal and the reference wave are obtained. The results are presented as closed-form analytical expressions. Several interesting cases are plotted as a function of the significant parameters. Besides being important in themselves, the results are of a general interest because they may be used to estimate essential nonlinearities in some other more complicated cases."
"As vibration testing becomes increasingly sophisticated, the statistical and operation interrelationships occurring in wideband random equalizers become more and more important. An underlying theory of equalizer operation is worked out, in order to refine the semiempirical methods presently used in equalizer design. Emphasis is placed on the interrelationships between control parameters and statistical properties, with a view to assessing exactly how the latter are affected in a practical system."
"A formula is developed giving the exact mathematical expression of the simplest and usual interpretation of a point-recorded diagram, as is obtained by connecting the successive points with straight-line segments. The formula clearly indicates the spectrum of frequencies existing in such a straight-line interpretation. The most significant aspect of this analysis is represented by some low-frequency terms not existing in the recorded signal."
"The small, but often significant, voltage ratio error of a ratio transformer is caused by leakage of magnetic flux and the flow of displacement currents around the windings. A model of the flux leakage pattern within a toroidal transformer is used in conjunction with an analysis of the effect of interwinding capacitances to predict the change of voltage ratio with frequency. Reasonably close agreement between this prediction and measured values of voltage ratio suggest that the theory is essentially correct."
"There are several well-known methods of measuring the Q of a resonant circuit, each with its limitations. Errors are introduced into measurements of high-Q values due to loading effects and radiation losses. A theoretical basis for the development of a Q meter which will not load a high-Q resonant circuit has been established. This new type of Q meter will use variable-width pulse excitation in lieu of sinusoidal excitation and will use elapsed-time Q-measurement techniques. It is seen that if the width of the exciting pulse is known, the resonant frequency of the resonant circuit can be directly determined. A Q meter using this approach will actually yield more information about a resonant circuit than can be determined using presently standard-type Q meters and will yield this information well beyond the Q and frequency capabilities of today's Q meters."
"A discussion of salient aspects of the design, construction, and performance of the National Research Council 2.1-meter cesium-beam frequency standard is presented. Emphasis is placed on the characteristics of the cesium (F = 4)↔(F = 3) σ transitions as they are affected by a range of microwave power and weak dc-magnetic C-field intensities. The technique of C-field determination based on excitation of the (4,-4)↔(4,-3) transition is described."
"A single-stage pulse-frequency divider is presented which operates on 60 Hz to yield low-frequency pulses. The divider exhibits unusual stability against disrupting influences and the resulting pulses have exceptional timing accuracy. For example, the 1-second pulses (division by 60) are reliable over an ambient temperature range of from -40 to + 80°C. Division by 300, yielding pulses at 5-second intervals, is reliable from + 5 to + 45°C. Timing accuracy of the pulses is equal to the average line-frequency accuracy-typically ±0.02 percent."
"Those factors which influence the timing cycle of astable and monostable multivibrators are discussed in detail and a relation is derived which may be used to predict the sensitivity of frequency (or pulse width) to supply voltage changes. A compensating technique based upon the insertion of a compensating voltage into the multivibrator circuit is presented and discussed. Several compensating circuits are presented along with relations which may be used to estimate the compensating voltage required at a given operating point to reduce this sensitivity to zero. The efficacy of this compensating technique is illustrated by means of experimental results from several examples."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Prospective authors are requested to submit new, unpublished manuscripts for inclusion in the upcoming event described in this call for papers."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Provides notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Prospective authors are requested to submit new, unpublished manuscripts for inclusion in the upcoming event described in this call for papers."
"This paper describes an all-transistor television (TV) receiver that incorporates many design innovations. Several of these innovations are directed toward better performance or lower cost. Some merely indicate a different way of serving a function. It is intended that each innovation be evaluated on its own merit, rather than as part of an integrated system."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Provides notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Provides notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Two solutions to the cross-modulation problem in VHF solid-state TV tuners are described. The first consists of a PIN diode attenuator preceding a common-gate FET amplifier. The second is a cascode arrangement of FET's designed to provide minimum cross-modulation. The performance of both solutions with respect to gain, noise figure, AGC range and skewing, and cross-modulation is compared to the performance of a 6HA5 amplifier at 200 MHz."
"The introduction of Large Scale Integration (LSI) into color television receivers requires the design engineer to make greater use of the computer to ensure that the highest yield is achieved (the larger the number of devices in an array the lower the yield). The computer is to be considered only as another tool and not a source of magic answers. The use of both linear and nonlinear programs (e.g. INAP, INREAL, KENSEN, CORNAP, SCEPTRE, CIRCUS and ECAP) are discussed. A new approach to the design of a 44 mHz IF will be outlined. This approach points the way toward single chip design."
"Two new variable capacitance tuner diodes are described which are designed for use in TV VHF and UHF tuner applications plus as AFC diodes and as FM tuner diodes. A combined VHF-UHF tuner circuit is described utilizing these diodes for electronic tuning. This tuner also incorporates newly developed diode switches which provide for band switching by DC voltages at the panel of the receiver. Thus, a complete TV tuner that is tuned and switched only by DC voltages is shown to be feasible."
"Weanling Wistar rats, all located within 10 inches of a color television set and which accumulated about 240 times the average dosage of a television viewer watching for 1000 hours at a distance of only 40 inches, developed normally and produced normal offspring whose behavior and anatomy were normal. Examination of sample tissue of the brain, gonad, spleen, and sternum showed no abnormal morphology. Likewise, bush bean seedlings and 'Tradescantia cuttings grew to maturity and reproduced without abnormal morphology."
"This paper describes an AM Broadcast Receiver utilizing two monolithic bi-polar chips containing all the active and many of the passive devices. Design goals such as minimizing the external components and meeting the performance requirements of a complete line of AM radio receivers, from personal portable through table model, have been achieved by using many devices and the characteristics inherent in monolithic circuits. The integrated circuit chips, containing 28 transistors and 53 resistors, are capable of 142 dB gain and 250 mW of audio output. Circuitry to provide good overload performance, lumped I.F. selectivity, d.c. coupled audio with push-pull output, and options for tuned R.F. and Class A drive for larger power output are discussed."
"A simple, practical, analytical solution to varactor phenomena is developed. Starting with the basic equation, C = Co/(l + E/ϕ)n, where C, the varactor capacitance is determined by E, an applied complex voltage, constituting a fixed dc voltage plus a desired and an undesired rf voltage; ϕ, the contact potential, and the exponent n, which is determined by the junction construction. The characteristics associated with var9ctors having various values of n, are analyzed. Means whereby distortion effects can be minimized are illustrated. It is shown that by using varactor tuning, practical AM-FM broadcast receivers having unique characteristics can be constructed."
"Tuning diodes are voltage-variable capacitors (varactors) based on semiconductor junction phenomena, which can be used for electric tuning applications. This paper is intended to explain how varactors function, introduce a new varactor applicable to AM radio, and describe the characteristics of this device."
"This paper demonstrates the possibility of reducing circuit complexity in an AM-FM radio by replacing the FM-IF amplifier limiter and detector as well as the audio preamplifier, with a monolithic linear integrated circuit, the µA717. The unconventional circuitry of the FM detector and low-voltage power supply and the elimination of audio switching between FM and AM operation are discussed in detail. The performance figures of the complete radio are given."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Provides notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"This paper describes development of a Thick-Film Television Video IF Amplifier Module. Discrete high-Q components compatible with thick-film techniques have been developed at Texas Instruments Incorporated. Their effectiveness as adjustable reactive elements has been successfully demonstrated by incorporating them in hybrid modules and using them as frequency selective elements in a commercial television receiver. Adequate tuning control has been achieved using airbrasive techniques to remove core material from toroidal transformers and to decrease the conductive surface area of flip-chip capacitors. Considerable attention is devoted to selection of magnetic and dielectric materials and to the shape and size of components consistent with adequate volumetric effi-efficiency. Suggestions in connection with automatic alignment procedures which circumvent the need for conventional slug adjustment and observation are also included."
"This paper describes a feedback-stabilized vertical-deflection circuit that makes use of a transistor oscillator to drive an output tube. The circuit possesses a few innovations that overcome some of the deficiencies that exist in conventional vertical-deflection circuits. These innovations include improved interlace over the lock-in range, increased independence from variations in output-tube characteristics, true height adjustment, and picture height regulation for color."
"There are a number of photoelectric instruments available for luminance measurements on color picture tubes. These fall into two broad categories: (1) Barrier-layer cell type instruments with wide viewing angle and low sensitivity, and (2) Photomultiplier instruments with narrow viewing angle and high sensitivity. Either of these two instrument categories are suitable for simple luminance evaluation of primary fields and white fields. For measurements of small area luminances, contrast and tracking, the photomultiplier instruments are usually more useful. In any event, for any luminance measurement, care must be taken to maintain: (1) Proper operating voltages and currents on the tube, (2) Constant raster size for comparison measurements, (3) Purity of fields for primary measurements and proper white color for white fields, and (4) Appropriate picture content and ambient light levels for contrast measurements. If all these conditions are fulfilled, accurate, reproducible luminance measurements may be expected from any of the instruments discussed."
"Color TV signal evolution is examined from a sampling encoder (modulator) viewpoint. This logically leads to an analysis of decoding (demodulating) the NTSC color signal with sampling techniques. In the process of enumerating and solving the problems that arise by attempting to demodulate by time - interruption of the signal, basic concepts relating to direct demodulation of the NTSC signal are derived."
"A monolithic silicon integrated circuit has been developed to perform the amplifier function in ultrasonic remote control systems. The integrated three-stage amplifier provides 120 dB gain in the 40 kHz range with excellent stability, low noise and desirable limiting properties. Internal biasing is used to achieve temperature and voltage stability while external interstage coupling capacitors enable design of the overall frequency response for optimum performance."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"Over a six-month period an attempt was made to evaluate the potentialities of an existing computer-aided instruction system in the environment of engineering education. It was concluded that the system showed small promise at this time."
"Engineering educators have had to rely increasingly on theoretical models that represent broad abstract relationships or laws which preserve their validity despite technological change. Carefully produced films afford the opportunity to relate the abstract with the real world and to assist the instructor in presenting material to his students that he could, only with great difficulty, produce himself. Under a grant awarded by the National Science Foundation, the National Committee for Electrical Engineering Films (NCEEF) has completed or has in production films on a) fields, forces, and matter, b) traveling waves on transmission lines, c) harmonic phasors, d) linearity, and e) antenna and radiation patterns. Additionally, films on electrical instruments, computers, modulation transients, and stroboscopic techniques are in the planning stages. The Committee has also sponsored a compilation with reviews of existing films. Because of the difficulty of visualizing electric and magnetic fields, and circuit quantities such as voltage, current, charge, etc., the NCEEF has sponsored a conference and produced a film on computer animation of motion pictures, which will consist essentially of excerpts from existing films of both industrial and educational organizations. As a result of the work of the Committee, there now exists a coordinated national effort designed by electrical engineering educators to produce films which will serve as useful adjuncts to electrical engineering education."
"This paper describes how an SDS-92 digital computer has been connected to a TR-48 analog computer by appropriate interface equipment to permit the high information rate capability of the analog computer and the precision of the digital computer to be combined into a practical hybrid system. The value of the hybrid computer as an educational tool is discussed. Some problems solved on the hybrid computer by students of the hybrid computer course at the Department of Electrical Engineering, University of Iowa, are illustrated."
"One of the difficulties often experienced by teachers of engineering subjects is poor or improper scientific background acquired by engineering students while still in high or elementary schools. The following discussion outlines some of the reasons for this state of affairs, and presents a description of an attempted solution in the form of an in-service training course in science for elementary school teachers. The difficulties and the unexpected pitfalls of such a program are discussed, and the results, consisting of more failures than successes, are presented. Finally, recommendations based on the experience gained are made, which will hopefully lead to more successful results bringing about a definite upgrading of elementary science education."
"The propagation of waves in uniform, unbounded plasmas is reviewed. Emphasis is placed on describing the various approaches and plasma models which may be used. The results and limitations of the different methods are discussed and compared. Dispersion curves for the different models are presented in the form of ω-k plots."
"The resonance properties of driven second-order nonlinear systems show a marked departure from those of linear systems, i.e., the phenomenon of jump resonance. This article describes a straightforward graphical method for constructing the resonance characteristics for undamped, driven systems and should prove to be a useful technique for courses in nonlinear analysis."
"This tutorial paper presents an introduction to leastsquares curve fitting and its connection to optimum filtering, using methods familiar and appealing to communication and control system engineers and educators in these disciplines. A development of the remarkable computational contribution of Kalman and Bucy to the solution of the Wiener filtering problem is presented, using leastsquares techniques and the Bayesian rule. Since the approach is discrete, the paper stresses the role of the modem digital computer in solving this class of important electrical engineering problems."
"A Lagrangian formulation for nonconservative linear systems is presented, and it is shown that this formulation satisfies Hamilton's principle. This treatment has two advantages over the standard treatment after Lord Rayleigh: 1) it applies to a wider class of problems (radiation damping is included), and 2) it includes a demonstration that the Lagrangian formulation satisfies Hamilton's principle, which brings a larger body of systems under one postulate."
"This short paper provides a physical interpretation of the mesh current by demonstrating that it is nothing more than the total current circulating around the associated mesh or \"hole\" in the network. This point of view implies the possibility of direct measurement of mesh currents by \"clamp-on\" ammeters. Thus, the student is provided with the conceptual advantage he has long held in the dual situation of nodal analysis, where he could easily visualize direct measurement of the dependent variables. The formulation presented allows the student to consider the mesh current as a \"real\" rather than \"fictitious\" currents, and facilitates the transformations between mesh, link, and branch currents."
"The reason for this paper is that most of the modern undergraduate textbooks on linear system analysis present the mechanical network with no proof or justification that it will lead to the correct answers. In most textbooks a procedure for writing down the system network is given and then the method for writing down the system equations is shown. Any connection with previous metholds of solving mechanics problems seems to be ignored. In this paper the mechanical network is presented as a natural abstraction of the free-body diagram used in mechanics. The major advantages of this technique are: 1) it may be presented quickly, 2) it is easily understood by the student, and 3) it demonstrates the physical basis for the network approach."
"This short paper offers a convenient method for determining the smallest interval of integration on the convolution integral. Two functions to be convolved are described, analytically, with the aid of step functions. These functions are then substituted into the general form of the convolution integral, and the integrand containing the step functions is interpreted to find the limits. The paper contains a table listing possible combinations of functions to be convolved and the resulting limits on the integral."
"The concept of transformation is inherent to phasors. This paper puts this concept on a firm basis by defining a phasor transform-pair. The development is parallel to that of Laplace and Fourier transformations, and thus stresses the basic similarity of these transformations in solving linear differential equations with constant coefficients."
"It is shown that the familiar resistive bridge can be used to measure the magnitude of an unknown impedance. In order for this conclusion to hold, the bridge must have equal ratio arms. The measured voltage is then a minimum when the variable resistance in the bridge is equal to the magnitude of the unknown resistance. The sensitivity, however, decreases as the reactive component of the unknown impedance increases. The analytical tools used are well within the reach of the sophomore student in electrical engineering."
"In the design of dynamical systems, described by the linear differential equation !_ 0 ai(dix/ dti)=0, integrals of the form Ik= Jo°° tKx2dt, k=0, 1, 2, . . . are often used as criteria of performance. Itis then desirable to be able to calculate these integrals without having to solve explicitly the differential equation of the system. Anke [4] showed that this can be done for integrals of the form Io= Jo'x0dt. This paper uses the results obtained by Anke and a change of variable to calculate the more general performance criteria Ik=Jotx2dt, k=0, 1, 2, . . . ."
"Science will not set the goals for mankind. It cannot tell us where we should go. We must decide that for ourselves. The relation between a wandering humanity and science is like that between Alice and the Cheshire Cat. \"Would you tell me, please, which way I ought to go from here?\" \"That depends a good deal on where you want to get to,\" said the Cat. \"I don't much care where...,\" said Alice. \"Then it doesn't matter which way you go,\" said the Cat."
"The usual procedure for deriving the Smith Chart through a conformal transformation frequently presents some difficulty when introduced in an undergraduate level course. This problem may be circumvented by developing the Smith Chart through examination of the properties of the inverse of a straight line. These properties are readily manifested when the polar form of the straight line is considered."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Provides summary-abstracts from the Computer-Aided Learning session. The topics discussed are: \"Time-Shared Computers in Design Education\" (P.T. Shannon, M. Tribus, S.A. Gembicki, Dartmouth College, Hanover, NH, USA); \"Strategies for Design of Computer Aided Learning Exercises\" (K.L. Zinn, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, MI, USA); \"The Eliza Program. Conversational Tutorial\" (E.F. Taylor, MIT, Cambridge, MA, USA); \"Teaching by a Computer-based Instructional System\" (D.L. Blitzer, University of Illinois, Urbana, IL, USA)."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"The purpose of education of the electrical engineer is explored, especially as it relates to the division of responsibility between the teaching machine and the faculty. Arguments are presented for making the curriculum more flexible and better suited to individual students, especially gifted students."
"Professor Sundaram Seshu (A'48-M'58) died on December 21, 1965, in a car accident. Dr. Seshu's technical contributions had earned him an international reputation in circuit theory and switching theory. Some of the areas in which he made significant technical contributions include the theory of positive real functions, synthesis procedures which minimize the number of network elements, topological formulas for the analysis of networks, the synthesis of switching circuits, and computer diagnosis and self repair."
"Mathematics comprises abstract operations upon abstract elements. For the application of mathematics to the sciences, we not only must know the rules for manipulating symbols, but also must define the correspondences between the mathematical abstractions and the concepts to which application is made. Certain basic postulates about physical observables yield the structure of their mathematical representation. An understanding of this structure yields an understanding of measure equations, quantity equations, measurements units, abstract units, and the mathematical nature of dimensional analysis. Wrting equations in a dimensionally homogeneous form is often convenient, but not necessary; sometimes an inhomogeneous formulation is more useful."
"A course is described in which the attempt is made to introduce first-year electrical engineering students to the basic principles upon which their chosen discipline is founded and to establish early the concept of a system. It is contended that an undergraduate course need not lag a decade behind current practice and current thinking but that, rather, the techniques taught and, indeed, the entire mode of approach can and should be completely up-to-date."
"Numerical procedures are presented which can be programmed in a generalized manner to accomplish the logical design of various logical networks with the use of a general-purpose digital computer. Some programming techniques are discussed to indicate just how the procedures are performed in the computer. Several elementary designs are mentioned with regard to the relationship between the network input-output information and the necessary input information for the automated procedures. Also, the results obtained with the performance of each step of the procedures are tabulated for the automated design of a code translator which represents a basic logical design problem. The elementary nature of these designs is not indicative of the type of design problems that make an automated procedure worthwhile; however, they clearly demonstrate the versatility that a single computer program may have in accomplishing very sophisticated designs."
"Senior technical electives in electrical engineering should Drovide the student with an oonortunitv to svnthesize knowledge gained throughout his undergraduate years. An excellent vehicle for such synthesis is a design project, including a detailed written and oral report. This paper describes such a project and discusses its effectiveness in achieving these goals."
"During a session of the first Intersociety Energy Conversion Engineering Conference, a panel discussion dealt with approaches to nonconventional energy conversion education. This short paper covers the contribution of this author. It is realized that these topics should be covered during university studies; however, the question of where in a curriculum, or when during a student's university career formal courses should be offered, has not yet been answered. The author suggests that only a small number of engineers are needed in this area, and that there is really no space in any undergraduate curriculum to give these topics the amount of time they require. Accordingly, the place for such studies is on the graduate level, at the very few universities which can expect to interest a sufficiently large number of students in order to develop and carry on a specialized program in an economical way."
"The problem of the sum of two or more random variables can be solved through use of the Laplace transform. It is argued that use of this technique, usually learned in earlier circuits courses, can help the student appreciate its wide applicability and at the same time increase his understanding of an important problem in probability theory."
"The state-variable approach to linear system analysis is applied to an example problem originating in the fields of physiology and medicine. A linear, time-invariant model is formulated to describe the absorption of an orally administered drug into the bloodstream from the gastrointestinal tract, and the subsequent removal of the drug from the bloodstream by the passive clearance function of the kidneys. Although the model presented is much simplified from the physiological standpoint, it suffices to highlight the type of information obtainable from the state-variable analysis."
"Graphical methods of solving linear circuits in the steady state have been reviewed at various times [2] and recently it was suggested by Boehne [3] that \"simpler straight line methods for 4320244-Y transformations might be sought.\" The present paper describes some novel constructions resulting from this search. The constructions are very simple for transforming any polyphase star or mesh, whatever the degree of unbalance, if the impedances are all of equal power factor. A star-connected circuit of any impedance and any number of phases may also be transformed graphically into a mesh circuit. The star-equivalent to a mesh circuit of four or more phases does not necessarily exist. If, however, the conditions for convertibility are satisfied, then the mesh circuit may also be transformed into its star-equivalent by means of a construction. The constructions are related to each other and similar to those for determining parallel impedances, which recently have become well known through repeated references in the technical press."
"A general conservative system may be considered to be represented by n(generalized) ports at which energy can enter the system; two generalized variables are associated with each port, the generalized force variable and the generalized coordinate variable. It is shown that the generalized force exerted on the system by the ith port at any given point in the system may be expressed in terms of the rate at which energy enters the system because of a change in the ith coordinate variable. The result is then employed to examine two classic problems which are frequently dealt with incorrectly."
"Some basic, unpretentious analog circuits are presented which may be useful in demonstrating mathematical concepts introduced at the senior high and college freshman levels. The analog computer is used as a picture-drawing device. How it operates is not emphasized. These circuits have been used several times in presentations made to groups of teachers, and should be of particular interest to those involved in teaching algebra in high school and college freshman classes."
"A simple equivalent circuit is proposed which can form the basis for undergraduate courses in circuit design. The circuit sacrifices a small amount of accuracy in gaining a great deal of simplicity. Since this equivalent circuit applies to all areas of design, a unified, practical approach to transistor design can be developed. Several justifications are presented for using this equivalent circuit rather than other design methods."
"The effect of the bilinear transformation substitution s 1 Z = -- s- on a polynomial equation nE aizi = 0 i= 0 is formulated in matrix terms. The matrices involved are formed by very simple rules. This procedure considerably facilitates calculation of the resulting s-polynomial, and makes the bilinear transformation an attractive tool for systems analysis rather than the textbook curiosity which it has been."
"A simple and straightforward proof is given of the following theorem: The slope of the numerator polynomial of the odd part of a positive real function F(s) is negative at a pole, and positive at a zero, of F(s) on the imaginary axis, including the origin. The theorem is used in the tangent function method of deriving a drivingpoint immittance from the specification of its phase."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"The information \"explosion\" poses a challenging problem to the engineer or scientist interested in keeping up with his field. While many large-scale systems of information retrieval have been developed, there is a need for small-scale, personal information retrieval systems that may be easily used by an individual. This paper describes what the authors feel is a highly useful solution to this problem."
"Teaching logic design algorithm development through computer program aids useable by a novice programmer is discussed. The basis for the method is a set of FORTRAN compatible subroutines which perform the tedious tasks of logic function input/output and manipulation, together with some simple combinatorial operations. These routines allow the student to concentrate on analysis and synthesis algorithms, investigating and solving problems beyond the realm of feasibility of hand calculation. Typical examples are discussed."
"The purpose of this paper is to present two related undergraduate laboratory projects which involve basic data-handling procedures (e.g., sampling, quantization, etc.) in an elementary, though nontrivial fashion. These procedures are used in the course of lab studies in linear system identification and correlation detection. The portions of the experiments which require techniques usually reserved for large-scale data-handling have been designed so as to require relatively small amounts of data. As a result it is possible for the student to do some calculation by hand before going to the digital computer, thus greatly aiding the learning process. The experiments also provide a realistic frame of reference for reinforcement of such classroom topics as convolution, frequency response, impulse response, auto-and crosscorrelation, and others."
"Symmetric circuits with more than one output can traditionally be reduced by shifting down if the outputs have certain properties. It is shown here that any nontrivial symmetric circuit can be shifted down using the method described. The reduction is made logical and simple to understand by means of the concept of logical potential, in which the circuit is diagrammed, and a \"potential\" assigned to each node in the diagram. The method shows which shifts are valid and avoids those which result in sneak circuits. It provides an excellent tutorial approach for classroom teaching of symmetric circuit reduction in courses on logic and switching circuit theory."
"As a senior laboratory project, fifteen minority logic gates were designed and built utilizing MOS field-effect transistors. The minority gates were then used as logic modules in the design of a binary comparator, a parallel binary adder, and a ternary counter. While the project did not yield an economically competitive logic gate, minority logic applications were verified, student creativity was encouraged, and a facility was developed for future laboratory projects."
"This paper describes an updating educational program for mature, experienced engineers and scientists working for the Intemational Business Machines Corporation. The paper reviews the planning, execution, and evaluation of the program; and it highlights the problems entailed in meeting the needs of a special population. The experience gained suggests several areas that require special attention in order for programs of this type to be effective. The program was designed for engineers and scientists having significant work experience, who have been away from formal academic training for ten years or more. It is based on the premise that an obsolescence of knowledge does not imply the obsolescence of people. The objectives of the program include: 1) a conceptual understanding of the subject material; 2) an improved ability to communicate with subordinates and people in related work areas; 3) an improved ability to read and interpret technical communications; 4) stimulation for continued educational participation and self-development. IBM, in conjunction with the Polytechnic Institute of Brooklyn, developed an eleven-week part-time/three-week full-time program, stressing recent developments in mathematics, modem physics, and materials sciences. During 1965 and 1966, about 100 participants were selected from the mid-Hudson Valley area in New York State and were formed into four equivalent groups. All groups were surveyed extensively after the full-time study phase to determine their response to the program. Overall favorability was high, and a majority of the participants felt that the program would be a benefit in their future careers."
"Recent technological developments have intensified the problems of educating young people for the engineering profession. Even though these developments have given birth to many areas of study in engineering, the increasing demand for engineers has in many cases forced engineering schools to abridge, rather than lengthen, their curriculum. The responsibility of providing a lasting and meaningful engineering education to students who are on campus for the short period of four years rests solely with the instructor. Consistently distributing lecture notes, working hard and closely with his students, and displaying a clear concern for the welfare of his students are suggested as possible ways the instructor can fulfill his responsibilities."
"Solid-state amplifying devices have two common features, 1) an inherent negative resistance, identified as the current or voltage source, and 2) a high electric field region, which manifests itself as the output impedance. A generalized equivalent circuit is developed using the above concepts. Several semiconductor amplifying devices are analyzed and their performances compared; the devices discussed include three-terminal devices, as well as twoterminal negative-resistance devices. The possibilities of increasing the gain-bandwidth product of semiconductor amplifiers is discussed and the additive-amplification technique for semiconductors is introduced."
"Classical feedback literature refers to series and shunt feedback or voltage and current feedback, implying only two feedback configurations which may be employed with an amplifier. Actually there are four separate configurations: 1) voltage sensed at output and voltage returned to input, 2) voltage sensed at output and current returned to input, 3) current sensed at output and voltage returned to input, and 4) current sensed at output and current returned to input. Also, if we examine the amplifier around which such feedback is utilized, we see the existence of four ideal transfer functions: 1) voltage amplifier, 2) current amplifier, 3) transimpedance amplifier, and 4) transadmittance amplifier. If we consider the employment of each of the four basic feedback types around each of the four basic amplifier types, we have a total of sixteen different configurations. This paper discusses the effect of the negative feedback in each of these sixteen cases. In general, the closed-loop transfer function approximates the reciprocal of the feedback network transfer function so that any one of the four types of amplifiers may be transfonned (with the proper choice of feedback) into any of the three other basic types, or into an improved version of the same type."
"Nathan's rules are stated and their applications are illustrated. The rules provide the expansion of admittance functions of linear networks which may include reciprocal and nonreciprocal branches, infinite-gain operational amplifiers, dependent current or voltage sources, vacuum tubes, transistors, and ideal transformers. Kirchhoff's rules for reciprocal networks as well as signal-flow-graph rules are included as special cases. The rules are purely topological and, in contradistinction to some prior work, do not include sign rules dependent upon an arbitrary assisgnment of labels to nodes, or directions to branches. The applications include transistor, vacuum tube, analog computation, and transformer networks."
"The concept and properties of the impulse or delta function have been presented in many books and periodicals. However, when the impulse function arises in undergraduate courses dealing with transform methods, great confusion can exist in the general application. The purpose here is to discuss the Laplace transform of the impulse function in such a manner that will not cause confusion when applied to system problems. Examples indicating difficulty with the normal presentation of this problem are given. A formulation of the Laplace transformation of the impulse function suited for undergraduate and first-year graduate students is presented."
"A specific system involving a delay difference-differential equation is analyzed for impulsive forcing functions. The presentation uses linear system terminology and analog computer symbols, and is suitable for undergraduate courses in these areas."
"It is shown that the sum of the residues of a proper rational function X(s) = K(N(s)/D(s)) at all its poles is given by Kδm,n—1. N(s) and D(s) are monic polynomials of degree m and n, respectively, with m ≤ n—1. δm,n—1 is the Kronecker symbol. This result simplifies calculations encountered in the partial fraction inversion of proper rational Laplace transforms with repeated poles. A similar result is obtained for partial fraction expansion of the transition matrix (sI-A)—1 which arises in Laplace transform solution of the vector— matrix equation ẋ = Ax + Bu: the sum of all the residue matrices associated with the eigenvalues of A is equal to the unit matrix. Each residue matrix associated with a simple eigenvalue is a dyadic, and is, therefore, completely determined by its first row and column."
"A simple stability criterion based on the return difference is established: Draw the phase plot of the return difference 1 + GH(jω) vs. ω, if and only if θ(∞)-∞(0) = (n + 2m) π/2, the system is stable, where n is the number of poles of GH(jω) at the origin and m is that in the right half plane; θ(∞) and θ(0) are the phase angles of \"1 + GH(iω)\" at ω = ∞ and at ∞ = 0, respectively."
"A graphical method is developed for plotting the field pattern of thin linear antennas with sinusoidal current distribution. The method is particularly useful for getting a general idea about the field pattern of antennas having any desired length. It is also useful in determining the effect of a change in the length of resonant antennas on the field pattern."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"A variety of methods of effecting greater interaction between the campus and industry are examined. All have been practiced with marked success, and their further adoption is viewed as being desirable for the future of engineering education. Communication between the university and industry, with the establishment of a clear understanding of the role of each in any continuing relationship, is emphasized. The several methods are examined with this communication link in hand. Forces that are at work on today's educational practices are commented on with the aid of an illustration-the \"sterile feedback loop\" (Fig. 3), in which the young teacher remains on campus, shunning professional practice. Two-way exchanges, which will assist in solving this particular problem, are the central theme of the discussion."
"An \"ancient chestnut\" of circuit theory is the energy loss in switched circuits made up of lossless storage elements. For example, a charged capacitor, short-circuited by an ideal conductor, loses all of its initial stored energy. This can be explained as a limiting case problem, which could not be physically carried out in any experiment, where the dissipated energy has the indeterminate form (0·∞). This paper gives a pedagogical treatment of this problem, bringing out the distinctions between the mathematical and physical problems. Energy is not necessarily \"radiated\" during this transient, as is sometimes claimed. For specially chosen geometry of the structure, the true radiation can be made vanishingly small. Furthermore, when radiation is present it can be accurately represented in circuit terms by introducing a circuit resistor to represent the radiation resistance of the structure acting as an antenna."
"During the centuries, materials technology has grown successively from simple stone working through composite structures to the sophisticated materials systems of today. The rate of development has been vastly accelerated during the past few years, particularly in the electronics industry. As these changes have occurred, the conventional engineering of the previous decade has been displaced by a new and considerably more involved engineering interdiscipline, placing additional stress upon the interaction and interplay of various fields. Further, because of these rapid changes, each practicing engineer is a candidate for technical obsolescence. The responsibility for combating this obsolescence rests not only with the individual, who has the most to lose, but also with the employer, the university, and society, who otherwise stand to lose the services of the individual."
"Many charges that the universities have been guilty of guiding students away from the electric power industry have been made. It is the authors' experience, however, that students who are primarily interested in nonpower areas can be challenged to work on power problems by simply recognizing the many interesting and challenging applications of diverse new topics in power problems. Several examples of this crossfertilization from other areas are given and possible future topics that can challenge the best minds of the university and channel them into the power area are suggested. The experience of students at Iowa State University is cited as evidence of this claim."
"Optimal control theory is introduced at a level appropriate for the undergraduate student. The principle of optimality is derived and used to develop the computational algorithm of dynamic programming. Two numerical examples, a routing problem and an optimal control problem, are solved to illustrate the basic concepts and the computational procedure. Supplementary problems with partial solutions are provided."
"A report is presented on progress and problems encountered in introducing a computer program as an aid in undergraduate teaching rather than as a topic of study per se. A computer-trained engineer differs in outlook from his predecessor reared on the slide rule. These conflicting orientations pose new problems and occasionally supply new fuel to old controversies. Reactions of the administration, of the faculty, and of the engineering student facing the changes are examined. Instructors planning to introduce similar programs, may find it helpful to anticipate these responses and to recognize their motivation. Like other so-called unorthodox teaching methods, the computer program depends for its success as a teaching aid largely on the instructor's ability to develop sound \"public relations,\" solicit constructive criticism, and meet unjustified attacks effectively."
"A new type of graduate program designed to provide professional engineering training in semiconductor technology is described. Lectures are given by university and industrial personnel, and group project work is carried out in a manufacturing plant under industrial conditions."
"A concept is presented in terms of a linear operator which is concerned with the model space. The linear operator is presented initially as a \"nonsense operator,\" which is later applied to the area of abstract algebra to show its significance. The concept is viewed in a light vein in order to abstract the reader from traditional concepts."
"By plotting and with the aid of the digital computer, the imaginary versus real components of Fourier frequency spectra and frequency response on the complex plane, a far greater insight into system behavior is obtained than is otherwise possible. The effects of varying the position, length, and height of a single rectangular pulse on its Fourier frequency spectrum are demonstrated clearly. The frequency response of a system is graphed on the complex plane as the ratio of output to input frequency spectra."
"The possibility of measuring an unknown impedance Z=R+jX by including it in one arm of a Wheatstone bridge, whose other arms are purely resistive, is examined. It is shown that by adjusting the variable resistance for minimum bridge output and measuring this output, one can calculate the magnitude |Z|, the resistive part R, and the magnitude of the reactive part |X| of the unknown impedance. Using a fixed auxiliary capacitor whose reactance is less than 2|X|, the sign of the reactive part can also be determined. The sensitivity of the bridge decreases as the ratio |X|/R increases; this can be remedied by adding a suitable series resistance to Z and/or by measuring the bridge output when its rate of variation with the adjustable resistance is maximum. An alternative method not involving voltage measurements, but requiring a suitable fixed, standard inductor or capacitor, has also been discussed. The theory involved in these measurements is pretty well within the reach of a sophomore student of electrical engineering and as such, this may constitute a simple, but interesting, laboratory exercise at that level."
"The attractiveness of the flow-graph analysis of systems lies to a great extent in the ability to manipulate the graph by inspection. Nevertheless, in large flow graphs the inspection technique is often a shaky one for writing transmission equations. If one insists on using the flow-graph approach, a systematic mathematical means is needed to assure that no loops, paths, or contiguous conditions among loops and/or paths are missed. This paper describes an analytical-combinatorial method, which produces error-free transmission equations. Use is made of suitably modified vertex matrices and combinatorially developed path-vertex-loop matrices."
"It appears to be common practice in almost all introductory texts in electromagnetic theory to introduce radiation by means of \"currents\" in free space, rather than on a conducting structure. Then the assumption is made, often implicitly, that the results are applicable to currents on conductors. Two questions then arise: What justification is there for using a potential integral for inhomogeneous media? How can a metallic structure radiate energy (from what appears to be a distributed source along the antenna) when it has zero tangential electric field? In contrast to this unsatisfying approach, the authors develop in this paper a potential integral for the conductor problem which contains the unknown, but measurable, current on the conductor. The integral is identical in form to the one commonly used for currents in free space, but the meaning of all terms is now clear, and the assumption that the free-space potential integral is applicable to the conductor problem is shown to be unnecessary. Finally, the authors show that an appealing viewpoint on the concept of energy being radiated from each point on the antenna is that primary radiation is from the feed gap alone and that the antenna structure acts as a scatterer or reradiator."
"Single sideband (SSB) modulation is a consequence of double sideband (DSB) suppressed carrier modulation. An outline of the DSB Laplace transform formalism is presented and this is followed by a simple SSB theory. The ordinary SSB modulator and demodulator are not enough for the task and a modification is needed to achieve SSB at one input frequency. SSB operation at other frequencies is aided by insertion of Butterworth filters in channels. Two \"corner frequencies\" of a Butterworth filter are related to carrier and lowest input data frequencies. It is readily demonstrated that a Butterworth flter of an order greater than 32 is required to reduce channel contaminants."
"Measurements of the locking voltage and frequency range for a simple negative-resistance oscillator are shown to be in excellent agreement with a theory which assumes a van der Pol nonlinearity. When the noise generated in the nonlinear element is taken into account, the measurements of output noise produced by a noise driving current are also in agreement with theory."
"This paper draws attention to the considerable similarity that exists in electrical machines when operating in the transient mode. An analysis is made of a salient pole synchronous machine, which has a damper winding. Using these equations it is possible to deduce the equations of other types of machines. In this way the similarities are highlighted."
"The presence of a leakage magnetic field is necessary for the transfer of energy between the primary and the secondary. Relations are derived for the electromagnetic field and for the energy transfer in an infinitely long transformer of circular cross section. The necessary information to calculate the field and the energy flow for a shell type transformer of cylindrical symmetry, in which the placement of primary and secondary is arbitrary, is given. Results for specific placements of primary and secondary are analyzed, computed, and interpreted."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"This index covers all technical items that appeared in this periodical during the year."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"The writing of scientists and engineers is severely criticized, but the critics seldom dig into the reasons for its supposed weaknesses and faults. By analyzing technical writing, however, we find that many of the \"faults\" are justifiable if not carried to extremes, and if not used inappropriately when writing for nontechnical audiences."
"This article suggests an experimental method for deriving objective evidence of the effect (if any) of given elements in the content, organization, or presentation of a written technical message upon the effectiveness of that message. The results of three experiments, in which approximately 2300 subjects were tested, indicate that the desired discriminations can be made and that the method provides a reliable predictive instrument."
"An informal style of writing is much more than just good English. It breaks many of the bad habits to which we've become accustomed. Most particularly, it frees us from the idea that because our writing is technical, it not only must be serious, but it also must be straightlaced and obtuse. The Army Missile Command (AMICOM) says \"it ain't necessarily so\"-that writing can be both lively and serious. To prove its point, many of the technical manuals (TM's) AMICOM supervises are written in this informal style, and the user is slowly beginning, if not to embrace it, at least to accept it."
"The transmittal of engineering language to a computer for document processing is examined, in particular, the organization of a coding dictionary and the selection of code words for such transmittal. These code words or \"mnemonics\" are of two types, \"verbs\" and \"nouns.\" Verbs require the computer to perform certain processing actions and nouns transmit standard phrases, sentences, and paragraphs of engineering language to the computer. Rules for the organization of a noun-mnemonic dictionary are examined. Four principal requirements which the mnemonics listed in the dictionary should satisfy are described. These requirements include 1) adherence to the computer sorting order, 2) adherence to the plan of the document being processed, 3) provision of adequate coding range for dictionary expansion or change, and 4) coding of the standard phrases, sentences, and paragraphs in an easily remembered manner. The dictionary organization for a specimen document is examined and specific recommendations are made."
"A reminder to the public speaker: you want your audience to think of your words, not someone else's."
"Recent questionnaire surveys of n-the-job engineers indicate that they want training in technical speech. Our colleges are offering various kinds of speech courses to engineering students, but it is not clear whether these courses are fulfilling the needs of technical people. The ability to talk about technical matters is important to the average engineer who may present and disseminate as much technical information orally as graphically. If a college course in technical writing can be justified, then certainly a course in technical speech (presenting technical information to various audiences) can be justified. Courses in technical speech might be improved if teachers knew more about how technical speech differs from other kinds of speech, and more about the requirements for successful technical speaking. Research into matters of audience, delivery, and audiovisual aids can help to provide this needed information."
"Training adults to read more effectively has become a successful business, as measured by participation in training programs. Advertising emphasis on increasing reading speed by three or four times while comprehending as much or even more has a great appeal to a large adult population. Investigation into the field of reading improvement discloses that there may well be a significant discrepancy between advertised claims of improvement and actual results attained. Reading is a complex skill not easily changed; tests used to measure change are often inadequate and misleading; and payoff in job performance is simply not known regardless of claims. More attention should be given to the kind of training required to produce significant results."
"Digital computers are widely used in the mechanical operations involved in publishing; one application may be to one of the classes of editorial functions which requires no judgment-the detection and correction of misspelled words. This paper describes a computer program written to correct spelling errors through vector representation. Words are uniquely identified through their vectors, and comparison of the vectors of input words with stored vectors permits the detection and correction of four common types of spelling errors. The program is considerably more efficient than programs which use dictionary look-up and letter-by-letter comparison of the stored word with the input word. With appropriate vectors, a similar method could be used to scan sentences and perform other editorial functions."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current committee members."
"Systems with naxiwum pulse flow capacity are discussed. It is shown that the upper limit of the permissible counting rates is set by pile up induced phenomriena, which are analyzed here. The best pulse stretching mode miinimizing pile up is peak value extraction. The basic statistical properties of such a device are investigated. These principles are applied to the design of an electronic system which comprises a fast amplifier, a high speed linear gate and a biased pulse stretcher. The noise properties of the anmplifier were studied using the autocorrelation function mreasured experimrentally. The system allows one to detect a particles with satisfactory pile up performances and negligible spectrum distortion in the presence of back-scattered protons up to 108 counts/sec. Applications to pulsed high energy accelerators are described."
"Several instruments employing variable-energy electrostatic thresholds and post-acceleration techniques in conjunction with plastic scintillator-photomultiplier detectors have been successfully used in a satellite experiment to measure low-energy electrons and protons in the auroral regions. A description of these instruments, which were designed to measure electrons in the energy range of 0.015 to 10.0 keV with detection sensitivities as high as 4 x 10-4 erg/cm2-sec-sr and protons in the energy range of 0.20 to 10.0 keV with detection sensitivities of 6 x 10-3erg/cm2-sec-sr, is given. A discussion of the procedures employed in the laboratory calibration of these instruments is presented. In-flight calibration techniques involving both radioactive sources and programmable Ga-P light diodes are also described. The performance of the instruments during two satellite flights in November, 1963, and November, 1965, is illustrated by the presentation of some typical data."
"Information on the detailed charge and energy spectra of galactic and solar cosmic rays is required for a better understanding of the production, acceleration and modulation of those cosmic rays. This experiment consists of a set of three detector assemblies to measure the differential energy spectra of protons and heavier nuclei through calcium (Z = 20) in the range of 400 Kev to 1 Bev/nucleon, and an extensive electronics system to implement the logic, perform pulse height analysis, measure particle fluxes, monitor experiment performance and interface with the OGO data system. The detector systems described here are the design of F. B. McDonald, V. K. Balasubrahmanyan, D. E. Hagge, B. Teegarden and G. H. Ludwig of the Goddard Space Flight Center."
"A three-channel particle spectrometer employing charge multiplying semiconductor detectors and tunnel diode discriminators has been constructed, environmentally tested and calibrated to detect low energy protons. The three channels have been calibrated to detect protons > 0.5 MeV, >1.5 MeV, and >45 MeV. The instrument is five orders of magnitude more sensitive to protons than to electrons above 500 KeV which ensures successful operation in the midst of electrons injected into the earth's radiation belt from the starfish experiment. The unique features of this instrument are: (1) Discriminates uniquely against a low energy photon background. (2) Electrical noise immunity due to the integration of the detector to the discriminator to give a high signal level output to the binary counter. (3) Thermally generated noise does not compete with the detected signal at the discriminator. The miniature instrument is a result of simple detection circuitry and the use of microelectronic elements in the data compressor. The data compressor consists of three binary counters having a storage capability of 218-1 bits. Each counter has a thin film network to octally encode the binary counts into an analog voltage. The counters have a 1 MHz count rate. This paper describes the instrument design and its characteristics which reflect the design constraints of the flight vehicle. The calibration of the instrument for a small half-angle cone of low energy protons from a Van De Graaff accelerator is discussed."
"A pulse - measuring technique, in which pulses are measured on the basis of area rather than amplitude, is employed in the design of a pulse window amplifier. This pulse-area-integration technique is used primarily to improve linearity, reduce resolution degradation resulting from risetime jitter, and simplify amplifier drive requirements."
"A digitized spark chamber has been developed for gamma-ray and charged particle experiments on balloons and satellites. The spark chamber is assembled from modular units, which are stacked to the desired number of levels. Each module consists of parallel spark planes formed from two orthogonal wire grids. Ferrite memory cores, strung on the wires of both grids, record the X-Y coordinate of the spark. Factors affecting the operating characteristics of these modules are discussed. A gamma-ray detector of 32 module levels has been assembled and balloon-flown in a search for cosmic gamma-ray point sources. The construction of this detector is described and its performance briefly discussed."
"The performance of high resolution pulse amplitude spectrometers is often seriously degraded at high counting rates due to baseline problems of various kinds. A variation on the Robinson double-diode dc restorer is presented which makes it possible to obtain high resolution with Li-drifted Ge spectrometers at counting rates greater than 50,000 per second."
"It is well-known that while the use of single clipping yields optimum energy resolution in nuclear pulse spectrometry it suffers from the drawback of producing rate-dependent baseline shifts. On the other hand the use of double clipping removes the baseline shift but degrades the signal-to-noise ratio. A scheme has been devised which circumvents some of these problems by producing a signal proportional only to the peak-to-peak excursion of an input signal. When operating with double clipped signals this improves the signal-to-noise ratio and also reduces tail-pile-up difficulties. Single clipped signals can also be used and produce an output amplitude which is independent of baseline position, allowing the use of single clipping at high counting rates, although in this case the system exhibits a noise disadvantage. The technique employed is based on the principle of \"active D-C restoration\" and circuit details, together with representative results, are given."
"Channel multiplier instruments have been developed and used to measure the low-energy electron and proton auroral fluxes from a polar-orbiting satellite. Seven channel multipliers preceded by individual 90° magnetic analyzers were used to measure the differential electron energy spectrum. The central energies of the analyzers were 1.1, 2.1, 5.3, 14, 31, and 76 keV; the seventh channel was designed to be a background monitor. The integral proton number spectrum was measured using four channel multiplier threshold counters. Proton thresholds, determined by nickel foils, were chosen to be 21, 38, 56, and 1000 keV. A broom magnet was used to sweep out low-energy electrons. The saturated output pulses from each channel multiplier were amplified and fed into a logarithmic ratemeter. The in-flight operation of the instruments was monitored with low-level radioactive sources. The ratemeter calibration was independently monitored using a programmed pulser which was activated by ground command. Data obtained from these instruments during a three-day period in November, 1965, will be presented. Improved versions of these instruments, described herein, have been designed and tested for future flights."
"This paper describes the electronic instrumentation of a stilbene scintillation detector which is used as a neutron spectrometer. In this application, the spectrum of scintillations caused by protons from (n,p) reactions must be measured and recorded for further analysis. The proton scintillations are separated from the electron scintillations by a double delay-line, pulse-shape discriminator. The discriminating circuit also provides a linear, shaped output for pulse-height analysis. The unique features of this spectrometer are that the criterion for pulse-shape discrimination is well defined and easily optimized, and that the separated spectra of both types of ionizing particles are obtained simultaneously."
"A new and useful theory was developed to characterize switching properties of the tunnel diode. Expressions for time delay and time variance for small signals in the presence of amplitude noise were developed for the tunnel diode in the discriminator mode. The expression for time variance is used to determine the parameters of the tunnel diode, and the tunnel diode bias condition to obtain the optimum time resolution for a specified signal and noise. The minimum charge necessary to switch the tunnel diode is calculated for a given signal current pulse width and tunnel diode bias condition. The expressions characterizing the properties of the tunnel diode were developed after the author discovered experimentally that the positive resistance region of the device could be represented very accurately by a sine function in voltage. Since this region of the characteristic curve is responsible for the significant delay and time variance, it is sufficient to describe these properties of the tunnel diode discriminator. The usual equivalent circuit is used to represent the tunnel diode. The second order nonlinear differential equation which is necessary to describe the equivalent circuit is simplified by excluding terms which were insignificant for this particular mode of operation. The simplified differential equation is solved to determine the time for the tunnel diode to switch from its stable bias point to the negative resistance region. This switching time, or delay time, is then used to calculate the time variance."
"The results of an investigation of the delay time variation of a tunnel diode (TD) threshold sensing discriminator are presented. These variations are a function of the square root of the input signal risetime and are accountable in terms of a charge sensitivity of the tunnel diode. A distinction is made between the charge sensitivity due to continuously rising signals and that due to short low energy pulses. A simple experimental method used for measuring the delay time variation as a function of the input signal risetime is described. The method is quite general and may be applied to any type of threshold discriminator. A theoretical model of the tunnel diode operating in the discriminator mode is developed. An equivalent circuit approach is used in this development by considering three phases of operation; before the TD reaches threshold, during the actual TD switching, and after the TD has fired. The model agrees with the experimental data, and it is concluded that the charge sensitivity model is a usefully valid concept which is applicable to the design and prediction of discriminator time-delay characteristics."
"A 10 channel tunnel diode analog-to-digital converter (ADC) has been constructed and tested. The converter is a simple stacked discriminator with tunnel diodes used as the quantization elements. The device has a conversion time of less than 10 nanoseconds and a differential linearity on the order of ± 3%."
"A circuit for discriminating neutrons, gammas and charged particles from each other in a phoswich scintillator is described. The scintillator is intended for use as a fast neutron detector. Test results indicate that the particle discrimination capability, noise rejection, and pulse pile up rejection are good. The circuit is capable of operating with very little degradation over a wide temperature range. Energy information for neutrons and gammas is also simultaneously obtained. The dynamic range is at least 20:1. The circuit has the capability of accepting count rates up to 4 × 105 per second without loss of information."
"An investigation has been made of a new type of insulated gate field effect transistor (IGFET), in which the gate lead is brought through the header in a guarded configuration. Measurements of gate leakage current with the drain connected to the source on this guarded IGFET show that its gate leakage current is less than 1/10 that of the conventional device, demonstrating that most of the leakage in an IGFET is across the header. When the guarded IGFET is operated in the active region, it is possible to set the operating conditions such that the gate leakage current cannot be measured on the best vibrating reed electrometers. Models of the guarded IGFET which explain the effect of bias on gate leakage current are presented. Others have shown that the IGFET, under proper bias, exhibits a zero temperature coefficient. It is shown how to simultaneously satisfy the bias conditions for minimum gate leakage current and zero temperature coefficient, as well as eliminate drift with time. Biased in this manner, a single guarded IGFET electrometer, which can be battery operated, was built. Its current sensitivity is better than 10-17 amperes."
"A new all-solid state direct-current integrator integrates currents as low as 10-11 ampere with an accuracy of 1%. The operating principle is similar to that of more conventional current integrators in that the voltage across a storage capacitor in the input circuit is monitored by an electrometer type operational amplifier, the output of which triggers a discriminator at a given voltage level. The discriminator generates a reset pulse which removes a fixed charge from the integrating capacitor. This is where the similarity ends. The diode pump circuit, which has long been recognized as an ideal circuit for removing precise quantities of charge from the integrating capacitor, has been replaced by complementary silicon planar transistors that operate in the inverted-mode and serve as current switches. These transistors normally have both their base-emitter and base-collector junctions reverse biased and look like open switches with leakage currents of about 10-13 ampere. Reset pulses switch these transistors from the reverse-biased state to the active state for a precise time during which a constant current flows to or from the integrating capacitor. Therefore, each reset pulse removes from the integrating capacitor a precise charge that is the product of the current and the period of the active state. By the employment of sufficient gain in the operational amplifier to maintain small voltage excursions at the input, the total effective leakage may be kept as low as 10-14 ampere."
"The circuit design of a gamma radiation dosimeter is described which permits continuous monitoring of accumulated radiation dosage. An electro-chemical integrating and storage device permits continuous readout in Roentgens followed by a preset audible alarm with an exponential horn tuned for maximum audio output with minimum power input. Any radiation dose rate can be monitored by selecting a G-M detector that gives the desired range. The unit described has a readout range of 200 R and will operate in a radiation field up to 1000 R/hr with an accuracy to within ±5% in an operating temperature range from 0° to 60 °C. The unit weighs less than one pound and has the capability to be clipped to the user's belt, allowing freedom of activity during emergency rescue operations or other hazardous assignment."
"A new technique (Double Sampling) of photomultiplier pulse processing is studied in order to improve the time resolution. Two time references, t1, and t2, are obtained from two different processing systems, into which the fast pulse of the photomultiplier is fed. If the condition: (t1 - t2) -Δt < (t1 -t2) < (t1 - t2) + Δt is satisfied, the pulse is accepted for the time analysis. Δt is a predetermined parameter of the proposed system. A theoretical study has been carried out in order to compare this processing method with the ones already used."
"Many radiation counter applications require the rapid response speed of a digital ratemeterl & 2, but if large changes in count rate are encountered, a conventional digital ratemeter must be set for a short counting period, producing an excessive number of individual measurements. An instrument is described which avoids this difficulty by automatically adjusting its time base as the count rate changes, the counting period always being such that a preset statistical accuracy is achieved. Further, data readout is inhibited if a measurement does not differ by a statistically significant amount from the last measurement allowed to transfer to the readout line, or if a sudden increase in rate occurs while a measurement is being taken. For applications in which a single digital ratemeter scans the output lines of a number of detectors, a preset time base limit is provided to prevent time being lost in making measurements of very low count rates or where a counter has failed. Among the display modes is a prediction mode which indicates the rate with increasing accuracy as the count is accumulated. The display utilizes scientific notation, which is very economical of display components and output lines, resulting in an instrument which has fewer parts than a scaler-timer of conventional design."
"A medium fast time-of-flight front end for use with an on-line computer is described. Principal features of this unit are: (1) 31.25 nsec minimum channel width. (2) 1 μsec minimum deadtime. (3) Controllable deadtime (for synchronization purposes). (4) 3 stage output derandomization buffer. (5) Simple low cost construction almost entirely of commercially available computer logic. (6) Crystal clock for stability. (7) Output pulse for clock synchronized accelerator triggering. (8) 220 channels available (1,048,576). (9) 3 tag bits for data identification. (10) Deadtime, clock livetime and lost data outputs."
"A review is given of the present state of basic functional units developed in France with the assistance of manufacturers to meet the needs of French AEC laboratories. These Renatran plug-in units are in accordance with the Esone standard. Plug-in units main characteristics and examples of classical experimental settings obtained in assembling various types of plug-in units are mentioned. In the same way, a transcription system towards printers, punching tape devices or computers has been studied and a brief description of it is given. The authors indicate their choice concerning the basic functions adopted in this case."
"An instrument was developed to trace excitation curves of nuclear reactions induced by charged particles at low energies with a precision of the order of 50 eV. Energy scanning periods of the order of one second were achieved, with total variations ranging typically from 2 KeV to 20 KeV. Good linearity was obtained with beam currents down to about 10-8 A. Applications to the measurements of the cross section of the reaction O18(p, α)N15 near the narrow resonances at 628 and 1766 KeV at two angles simultaneously are described. Results are presented on the energy straggling of protons through 150 Å thick foils, showing the asymmetry effects predicted by theory, using the narrow resonance at 1165 KeV in the same reaction. The basic idea consists of controlling the scanning speed by the beam current itself, using target self charging. The fluctuations of the current do not therefore, by definition, impair scanning uniformity. The device is thus especially convenient for Van de Graaff type accelerators. An extension of the method for scanning parameters other than energy is described. An example is given, showing high precision automatic angle scanning in channeling experiments, where electrostatic deflection of the beam is used. Steps of 3 minutes of arc were achieved without any moving part in the system."
"A camera-type device, the Digital Autofluoroscope*, recently developed for organ visualization and other applications in the nuclear field is described. The detection head of the Autofluoroscope consists of a 6 × 9 inch rectangular array of discrete 1-1/2 inch long NaI(T1) crystals. The array is made up of 294 crystals forming a grid of 14 × 21 crystals. Each row and column is optically coupled to separate photomultiplier tubes. Pulses that occur simultaneously in any pair of photomultiplier tubes uniquely identify the crystal in which the interaction occurred. Anticoincidence logic is provided to inhibit all pulses arising simultaneously in more than one crystal. The optical coupling between the 294 crystal mosaic and the 35 photomultiplier tubes is accomplished by means of total internal reflection to achieve efficient light conduction in plexiglass light-pipe array. The parameters that govern uniformity and transmission along with the calibration of the instrument are discussed."
"A mass spectrometer has been designed and constructed which consists of two double-focusing systems arranged in tandem. The instrument includes two 20-inch radius of curvature - 90° electromagnets, and two 20-inch - 90° cylindrical electrostatic lenses. This combination of velocity and momentum focusing permits the measurement of isotopic abundance ratios that are very large. Such ratios must be measured when nuclear reactions lead to daughter nuclides which are stable isotopes, and therefore cannot be detected by radiation counters. Isotopic abundance ratios of 108 to 1, in principle, can be measured with this spectrometer, as demonstrated by initial tests. It has already been utilized to (1) measure neutron cross sections, (2) determine neutron temperatures, and (3) provide 1 part per million isotopic purity of several rare earth elements in activation experiments. Special instrumental features of the spectrometer will be described, and a brief summary will be presented of nuclear and reactor measurements which are anticipated using this new facility."
"Two small Faraday cups, one shielded and one unshielded, have been built and calibrated for efficiency vs electron energy. Measurements with a pulse beam transformer gave the absolute efficiency by means of a unique method: direct measurement of the ratio of the \"lost\" current to the incident beam current. Efficiencies for the unshielded cup are in the range 93 to 99 percent with uncertainties of 0.5 percent for electron energies from 10 to 50 MeV. The shielded Faraday cup has a measured efficiency of 97.8 ± 0.2 percent over the electron energy range from 10 to 60 MeV. This cup was used to calibrate the secondary emission produced by electrons or positrons incident on a 0.4 mm Be target. The resulting positive current was 4.3 ± 0.3 percent of the incident beam current over the energy range of 15 to 40 MeV."
"An emission telescope has been developed for studying light intensity vs. time of scintillators and Cerenkov radiators in the subnanosecond time domain. Sample excitation is achieved with 10-MeV, 50-psec pulses of electrons from the EG&G/AEC linear accelerator. Test samples are viewed by an ultrahigh speed, coaxially mounted vacuum-photodiode detector via a 6-inch spherical mirror with an effective aperture of f/l. Photodiode detector output signals are recorded by a sampling-oscilloscope, computer-of-average-transients, data-handling system. Overall time resolution of the system is 150 psec (FWHM). The resolution function is obtained from Cerenkov emission in lucite and water. The response of one typical fast fluor material is presented, showing the prompt Cerenkov emission followed by the comparably slow fluorescence rise and decay."
"The Chronotron Alpha Meter is an instrument developed at EG&G Las Vegas to measure the time difference between two discrete levels of a pulse to an accuracy of a few picoseconds. The instrument output is a DC level which corresponds to this time difference. This instrument has been used to measure the rate of rise of fast single transient waveforms such as the exponent, alpha (α), of a positive exponential signal of the form E = Eoeα. Other typical applications of the chronotron are for measuring time intervals between pulses, linearity of ramps and the rise rate and shape of any continuously rising analytical function."
"A time-to-power instrument has been developed for use as a primary startup control for nuclear reactors. Time-to-power (TTP) is the projected length of time that will elapse before reactor goal power is reached, as based on the instantaneous neutron flux level and the reactor periods. Thus, the TTP signal is formed by combining the logarithm and period of the neutron flux level (both normally-used startup control signals), with an internally-generated goal flux level signal. The resultant TTP signal is displayed for comparison with the desired TTP value. Maintaining a constant desired TTP signal by adjustment of reactivity controls results in an orderly approach to a selected goal power level. The design considerations of the prototype system are presented with a discussion of the present and future applications. The developed, practical instrument satisfactorily performed the electronic functions required to demonstrate the TTP concept, and data from controlled reactor startups compare favorably with the calculated behavior. The results indicate that safe, efficient and economical startups can be obtained using TTP instrumentation."
"The possibilities of increase the use of digital technics in reactor control instrumentation lead to several studies which are described. They concern chiefly prototypes of linear ratemeter, digital periodmeter with automatic change of response time. The measurement of neutron flux with a good accuracy over a ten decades range with one or two detectors. The use of digital technics even for the measurement of D. C. current given by neutron detectors is also analyzed."
"The measurement of statistical fluctuations from neutron detectors yield an information proportional to the root mean square of the flux which is used in reactor control. The theory shows that neutron-gamma discrimination is improved by a factor 100 relative to a current measurement, when an uncompensated ionization chamber is used. Another advantage of this method is to have the possibility to connect on the same detector two measuring channels (logarithmic and linear channel for instance). An experimental logarithmic amplifier has been realized upon this principle. It operates over a three decade range (six decade flux range). Experimental results of measurements done on high flux experimental reactor are given."
"A new type of instrument for neutron flux measurement in reactor control systems is described. It requires only a single fixed-position fission chamber of standard design to continuously cover ten decades of neutron flux level. The wide range of coverage is achieved by utilizing both the individual pulses from the chamber and the statistical fluctuation signal developed by the overlap of individual pulses. The channel provides a logarithmic indication of neutron flux level from approximately 1 nv to 1 × 1010 nv, with period indication over the range from approximately 1 × 104 nv to 1 × 1010 nv. It also provides a range-switched linear indication of neutron flux level over the range from approximately 1 × 104 nv to 1 × 1010 nv."
"A neutron counting system containing a fission detector and a pulse transformer driving a balanced transmission cable was investigated to determine its usefulness as an instrument for reactor control. Because of the noise rejection capability of the balanced system input, all active elements can be located away from the hostile environment of the reactor, resulting in longer periods of trouble-free operation. The design criteria of Fowler were used as a guide. The primary objective was to measure the response of the system to electrical interference characteristic of the Oak Ridge Research Reactor (ORR). The results showed no noise pulses in excess of the alpha threshold after six days of operation at the ORR. A detector without 235U was used to make this measurement. The input cable, with a characteristic impedance of 250 ohms, was a 40-ft long double-shielded twisted pair. Its outer jacket and inner dielectric were made of irradiated polyolefin compounds. The cable was enclosed in a flexible, stainless steel conduit for underwater operation. The quality of the shield of this cable and four other types of balanced cables was determined by a measurement of their transfer impedance. To determine the effect of the flexible conduit, a separate measurement was made with the cable-conduit combination. The techniques required to make these measurements are critical and are described. The signal from the detector-cable combination requires a preamplifier with a lownoise input stage. A series-shunt feedback stage using two 2N2857 transistors gave an input noise of approximately 2."
"A power level indicating and control system that is independent of rod position and gamma background was developed for the Livermore Pool-Type Reactor (LPTR). This system, based on the N16 decay in the primary coolant water, avoids the errors in ion-chamber measurements caused by changes in leakage flux, related to fuel loading, fuel burnup, xenon buildup, and rod position. A scintillation detector was placed near the coolant outlet. A dual differential discriminator monitors the output and drives a counter in the control room. The numerical readout is directly in watts. The counter output provides a control signal that can override the ion-chamber control when an error exists. The system operates from 2 MW down to 2 kW under automatic control."
"An underwater gamma (γ) ray spectrometer has been developed and used to measure the concentration of radioisotopes in water at the following sites: the Columbia and Savannah Rivers, the Ft. Belvoir, Peach Bottom, Indian Point, and Yankee power reactors and the University of Maryland Reactor pool. Concentrations of less than 10 picocuries per liter of reactor-produced isotopes were found at power reactor sites. The experience with this system and similar systems used at sea show that it can be adapted for use on a practical basis for continuous monitoring of environmental water. This paper will describe the detector used in these tests, and then will discuss an environmental monitor system for permanent installation."
"This paper presents the development and application of a method for on-line estimation of states and parameters in noisy nonlinear systems. Requisite data for the method consists of a sequence of measurements on system output variables which are, in general, nonlinear functions for one or more of the system state variables. The output variables may contain random instrument errors and the system itself may be subject to random input fluctuations. There is no need to introduce special test inputs as the normal operating system inputs and outputs suffice for the sequential identification and modeling method proposed here. A discrete version of the startup dynamics of a thermal nuclear reactor system is considered. It is desired to estimate output states and parameters such that a \"best\" linear model as well as a best nonlinear model for the reactor states and parameters may be determined. A discrete version of Pontryagin's Maximum Principle is employed to obtain the canonic equations of the least-squares optimal estimator for the kinetics equations. A discretized invariant imbedding technique is then applied to solve the resulting two-point boundary value problem. Finally, a system of sequential equations is obtained by application of variational methods to the optimal startup trajectory. The result is a sequential estimation scheme which has the advantage of direct applicability to discrete as well as continuous systems and which provides for the inclusion of certain higher-order terms not usually considered by other methods."
"Gamma spectroscopy, alpha counting and x-ray fluorescence techniques have been developed and applied to testing nuclear reactor fuel elemsents. A gamma analyzer system incorporating a NaI(Tl) scintillator measures in a two minute counting period the enrichment level of the U-235 isotope over a 0.15 to 3.0 weight percent range with accuracy of about 0.1 percent. An alpha scintillation system, with unusually sturdy mechanical features to position heavy reactor fuel elements,detects uranium contamination at the 100 microgram level in a 10 minute counting period. A prototype x-ray fluorescence system detected uranium contamination in a weld zone over a 2-10 weight percent range in a small volume (0.25×10-3in3) at a scan rate of 5 in/min. These techniques and in particular x-ray fluorescence offer promising methods for testing impurity levels or alloying concentrations of space age components or materials."
"The primary purpose of the SEFOR nuclear test reactor is to measure the dynamic behavior of a fast reactor core. Special in-core instrumentation has been developed for fuel and sodium temperature and sodium flow rate measurements. Neutron detectors have been built and tested which will measure reactor power peaks up to 106 MW. A fast computer-controlled data acquisition system allows sampling rates up to 30,000 data/sec. The system provides for minor data reduction and analysis."
"The purpose of actual studies concerning reactor control instrumentation connected with neutron detectors are essentially 1. The possibility to put far away electronic devices from the neutrons detectors, eventually to cancel preamplifiers (so that the electronic devices will operate in normal conditions without damage due to radiations and temperature). 2. The increase of the scale and the discrimination ratio between neutrons and gamma measurements, chiefly for pulse amplifiers. 3. A better compromise between time constant and noise for all the levels of electric information given by the neutron detectors. The results of these studies are given and also the description of the different \"modular blocs\" is done; main characteristics are mentioned: scale, accuracy, time constant, etc... The various possibilities for connection between the different \"blocs\" show that modular electronics for reactor control instrumentation is well fitted with the increase of automatic devices and the concentration of measurements in reactor control. A great number of tests of this new instrumentation have been done on several experimental reactors and the results are given (including the rate of failures)."
"This assembly is connected to pulse neutron detectors: fission chamber, BF3 counter, boron counter. No preamplifier is needed. The input impedance of the amplifier is matched to the impedance of the coaxial cable connected to the detector. The assembly can work with a length of cable between the detector and the electronics as long as 200 meters. The effects of reducing the electrical interferences on the cable and on the assembly have been studied and the results of the tests done near different reactors are given. The current collection mode is used. The useful range of the assembly is limited by the collection time of the detectors and it allows a maximum range of 5.106 c/s with an accuracy of 10%, taking in account statistical fluctuations. The description of the electronic circuits of the assembly is given: amplifier, d.c. level restoring circuit, discriminator. It is possible to use the two outputs of the assembly in digital mode (calibrated pulses) and in analog mode (d.c. current proportional to the counts per second: 10-11 A/C) and so a digital or an analog rate meter can be used. The assembly is built with 6 modular blocks: transformer, low voltage d.c. supply, high voltage supply, pulse amplifier, discriminator and tests."
"A series of logarithmic amplifier designs based on follower type circuits is described herein. One circuit contains only three components and covers the range 10-10 to 10-3 amp. Another circuit contains four components and covers the range 10-7 to 1 amp for pulsed operation. A circuit which has been radiation hardened and temperature compensated for pulses in the range 10-5 to 1 amp is shown."
"The SPERT reactors at the National Reactor Testing Station near Idaho Falls, Idaho, are routinely subjected to rapid power excursions to investigate their inherent safety characteristics. During these rapid excursions, the power varies from 10-2 to 1010 watts within milliseconds. Current amplifiers used in conjunction with ion and rad chambers to monitor this power change require a bandwidth of 20 kHz with a signal to noise ratio of 40 db or better at current levels of 10-6 amperes and higher. This measurement is further complicated by electrical fields from plant operation as well as gamma fields with strengths of up to 1000 R/hr at the amplifier location. A current amplifier put into use at the SPERT facilities, and which lends itself to reactor pulse applications, is a modified version of a commercially available solid state charge amplifier. The modification consists of replacing the capacitive feedback network in the charge amplifier with a resistive network. The modified amplifier has a bandwidth of 35 Hz at 10-9 amperes, 350 Hz at 10-8 amperes, 3.5 kHz at 10-7 amperes, and 20 kHz at 10-6 or greater amperes. These bandwidths will hold with up to 100 feet of RG-58 cable on the input. The amplifier has signal to noise ratios of 34 db, 40 db, 46 db on the corresponding current ranges of 10-9, 10-8, 10-7 amperes. For current ranges of 10-6 amperes and higher, the signal to noise ratio is that inherent to the amplifier, 52 db."
"This paper describes a novel transistorized fail-safe trip amplifier to use in the control of nuclear reactor. The trip unit is inherently safe by virtue of the trip point being independent of the amplifier gain, since its out-put is zero, when the signal exceeds or equals the trip setting. The trip setting may be changed over the range of 0-5 volts, the unit can be used as a low or high level and high-low trip. The amplifier has a dynamic input current range 10-3 - 10-6 Amps and the drift of the unit is less than 10-9 Amps for long term and temperature variation, accuracy and stability better than ± 0.1 %."
"The materials that might be useful for constructing high temperature fuel pin thermocouples are reviewed. The materials selection problem is confined to three areas--i.e., sheath, electrical insulator, and thermoelement materials--with the major emphasis placed on the selection of electrical insulators. The determination of insulator properties and their effect on thermocouple performance are considered. Potential modes of thermocouple failure are illustrated, and a prototype thermocouple is described."
"A magnetic flowmeter that may be used in the core of a 1200°F sodium-cooled reactor has been designed and partially tested, The flowmeter is constructed in the shape of a hexagon so that it can be completely self-contained as a part of a reactor fuel element. An integral stainless steel sheath, alumina insulated, stainless steel lead wire is provided for signal transmission. Complete construction and design details are presented. The effects of temperature and nuclear radiation on the magnet stability are considered and discussed. The preliminary test results are given and compared to the calculated performance."
"The development of an acoustical thermometer for use in graphite matrix nuclear fuel elements is described. Test results indicate that this thermometer accomplished the objective of automatically, accurately, and reliably recording temperatures of a number of sensors. The acoustical thermometer system offers a wider choice of signal transmission line and sensor materials than conventional thermometer systems, since it does not require the use of electrical insulators or the conductors in them. This advantage was the main reason for choosing the acoustical thermometer for use in the particular environment of interest. While the development of the thermometer was directly aimed at the solution of problems associated with a nuclear and carbonaceous environment, a number of observations are presented that should be pertinent to acoustical thermometer design in general."
"The 20-MeV linac at EG&G, Santa Barbara, produces fast neutrons up to 11 MeV by the photoneutron reaction in a beryllium target. With a 10-nanosecond linac burst and a 25-meter evacuated flight path, neutron energy resolutions ranging from 7 percent at 10 MeV to 1.4 percent at 0.4 MeV are obtained. A plastic scintillator identical to that designed by Batchelor was placed at the end of the flight path, and its scintillation output was placed in coincidence with narrow time windows. These windows could be varied in width and position with respect to the linac burst. The scintillations passing through a window were the response of the detector to neutrons of a narrow band of energies. By scanning the window in time, the neutron pulse-height response of the detector was measured for neutrons from 1 MeV to 8 MeV. In a separate experiment the neutron detection efficiency of a 6-inch cube of MEL 150 C plastic scintillator was derived by comparison with Batchelor's detector; that is, the same time-of-flight neutron spectrum was measured by both detectors. This is a new and convenient application of the linac time-of-flight technique for measuring the neutron response and efficiencies of organic scintillators."
"Semiconductor sandwich fast neutron spectrometers, using the Li6 or He3 reactions, are considered for use in measuring reactor type neutron spectra. Extensive digital computer calculations were performed in order to analyse the performance of these spectrometers. Areas treated were: 1. Response Functions - Characteristic resolution response functions were calculated for various layer thicknesses of Li6F and gold at a number of different energies. Results compare favorably with existing experimental data; 2. Detection Efficiency - The relative detection efficiency, for detection of the reaction products in coincidence, was calculated for both Li6 and He3 spectrometers as a function of energy, detector orientation angle and low level discriminator setting. The net relative detection efficiency, for any incident angular neutron distribution, can be obtained by weighted integration of these curves. The detection efficiency effect was found to be significant, especially for the He3 spectrometer; 3. Silicon Background Response - The true coincidence background response, due to reactions occurring in the silicon of the diodes, was calculated for the cases of incident fission and incident Pu-α-Be spectra. The background was found to be primarily due to the ground state (n,p) and (n,α) reactions. The results are in good agreement with available experimental data. A circuit arrangement, using fast (<30 nsec) electronics to minimize gamma ray pileup effects, low level discriminators to eliminate thermal neutron response if desired, and fast gates to minimize pulse pileup in the microsecond part of the electronic chain (multichannel analyser), has been designed and built for use with Li6 spectrometers."
"N-trimethyl B-tri(diphenyl), N-triphenyl B-tri(diphenyl), N-triphenyl B-tri(alphanaphtyl) borazines, and hydroxiborazaro phenanthrene and bis 2-1 borazaro-2-naphtyl ether, were assayed in benzene solution and as solid films for scintillation counting of thermal neutrons moderated with paraffin from the reaction Li7(d,n) Be8 . A background of gamma radiation was present, partly from the reaction Li7(p,gamma)Be8. Absolute gamma and neutron flux measurements of the source were made, using gamma ray spectrometry and foil activation. Characteristic counting curves and absolute counting efficiencies were obtained for several liquid and solid scintillators. Also, studies of the concentration effects, geometrical and dimensional factors, etc. were made using a Po-Be and a Ra-Be source and several gamma ray sources. Finally, actual tests based on the aforementioned experiments were made in a nuclear critical facility and excellent results were obtained."
"A detector capable of measuring the energy and direction of 1 - 15-MeV neutrons is decided. The instrument consists of two conventional neutron detectors (organic scintillators and phototubes) and electronics which, for events in which a neutron is scattered by the first scintillator into the second, measures the energy of the recoil proton in the first scintillator and the time of flight of the scattered neutron between the two detectors. These two quantities determine the energy of the incident neutron and its direction relative to the line joining the two detectors. The response to a point source of 2.5-MeV neutrons is shown."
"A directional neutron detector for the energy range 1.5 to 15 MeV was constructed. Its design is rugged enough to operate while under high mechanical stress, and at extremes of temperature. The detector is a liquid scintillator using glass capillary tubes to collimate proton recoils from elastic scattering of neutrons in the liquid. Gamma-rays are rejected by pulse shape discrimination, using a special circuit developed for space applications and described by R. A. Tietsch and E. M. Kellogg elsewhere at this symposium."
"A new technique has been developed for the measurement of thermal neutron flux. Small glass beads (~ 1 mm radius) are made black to thermal neutrons by the inclusion of B10. In addition, a 1/v activation such as cobalt, dysprosium, or indium is incorporated in the glass to measure the fluence (nv-t). Following activation over a measured time interval, the absolute source strength of a Co bead is determined by γ-γ coincidence. The flux is directly proportional to the source strength. The Dy and In beads are calibrated relative to a Co bead."
"A He3 detector has been developed which is suitable for applications involving the detection of thermal and epithermal energy neutrons over an operating temperature range extending to above 200°C. The detector exhibits stable plateau characteristics for fill pressures of up to ten atmospheres in detectors of up to 1.75 inch diameter, and is resistant to degradation from thermal cycling and overtemperature operation."
"A Helium-3 semiconductor neutron spectrometer with enhanced efficiency and a useful energy range to 20 MeV is described. The efficiency has been increased 2.5 orders of magnitude over that previously attainable with only a small loss in resolution. Characteristics are presented along with typical monoenergetic and complex neutron spectra."
"A new family of photomultipliers suitable for scintillation counting in severe environments has been developed. These tubes provide performance equal or superior to that provided by the best types of non-rugged tubes. The electron-optical and mechanical design is described with particular emphasis onthose properties that ensure good performance insevere environments. Mechanical tests of tube ability to survive severe vibration and shock are described, and operating characteristics during vibration areevaluated. The electrical properties required in scintillation counting were measured, andpulse-height resolution and darknoise characteristics were determined. Several variants suitable for special applications were built ."
"An investigation of photocathode uniformity using a pulsed light-source and a special type of source holder was carried out with a multichannel analyser. The sensitivity profiles of uniformity of the photocathode of a two-inch 14-stage photomultiplier at various focussing control voltages are presented in a number of contour maps. The variation of sensitivity along major and minor axes of the photocathode as a function of focus voltage has been investigated. An attempt is made to relate scintillation counter resolution to nonuniformity of the photocathode."
"Present fabrication and activation techniques have reduced afterpulses from most photomultipliers to a point where they are rarely important. Nevertheless, with some tubes in certain applications they may present a serious problem. More important, however, is the fact that the study of afterpulsing gives valuable clues to the nature of dark current in multipliers and also reveals a surprisingly high yield of electrons from alkali antimonide (cathode) surfaces per ion incident on the surface. It has been found that afterpulses are the result of ionization of gas by electrons in the volume between the cathode and first dynode, The positive ions formed strike the cathode and cause the release of secondary electrons. The sharp pulse characteristic of afterpulses is due to the fact that the field distribution between the cathode and first dynode is such that the time required by an ion of given mass and charge to reach the cathode is nearly independent of the point of origin Observation of afterpulses produced by single photoelectrons indicates that the secondary-emission ratio for ions in a cesium-containing photocathode is in the neighborhood of 3. The time of occurrence of afterpulses can be closely correlated with the atomic mass of the residual gas in the tube. The pulse-height distribution of afterpulses produced by single ions appears to be identical with the larger dark-current pulses, and it is quite certain that this component of dark current is the result of ion bombardment of the cathode."
"A large variety of nanosecond-response, high-gain phototubes for use in high-energy particle detectors is available to users. The time spread, gain, and noise properties of such tubes are important to know for selection of a suitable type. The 24 to 30% quantum efficiency of phototubes containing bialkali photocathodes for instance, along with their low noise offered at gains up to 3×107 make them especially desirable in Cerenkov counters. We present measurements of single-electron time spread for several 8575's, 56AVP's, 6810's, C70133's, 2067's, and 7264's. Using the measuring equipment, voltage ratios in the focus-electrode system for optimum collection and minimum time spread were found. A description of the measuring system is included. Two alternative ways of expressing the time spread are given. All tubes were magnetically degaussed and were shielded for these measurements."
"This paper describes various extraneous light-emission phenomena that limit the application of the photomultiplier, or photomultipliers in coincidence, to the detection of light levels higher than that limit set by thermionic emission from the photocathode or photocathodes. The paper discusses four sources of extraneous light within the photomultiplier: (1) electrode glow; (2) dielectric glow, which includes electro-luminescence and phosphorescence; (3) Cerenkov radiation and faceplate scintillations; and (4) residual gases within the volume of the photomultiplier. Data are given on the timing, the pulse-height distribution, and the efficiency of various light-emission processes. A brief summary is given on the recent progress made toward the reduction of extrinsic noise activity encountered in photomultipliers operated at light levels in the order of a few quanta per second."
"Efforts to substitute a solid state device for the usual photomultiplier of a scintillation type nuclear detector led to the photoconductive cell. Although extremely sensitive, cadmium sulfide responds slowly to low levels of light, and a technique providing improvement over several orders of magnitude failed to achieve measurement of individual pulses. In an integrating application, however, such a method makes possible a simple, reliable, and inexpensive instrument for measuring, alpha, beta, gamma, and neutron dose rates over a wide range of operation."
"Recently developed sodium activated cesium iodide crystals offer a number of unique advantages as scintillators. The sodium activator produces a relative pulse height of approximately twice that of thallium activated cesium iodide and the emission decay constant of the new material is half that of the CsI(Tl). The pertinent physical properties of CsI(Na), including refractive index, optical transmission, and fluorescent emission characteristics are summarized and the gamma-ray mass absorption coefficients calculated from elemental cross sections are presented. Single crystal ingots up to ten inch diameter have been grown and data obtained from these crystals are reported. These data include relative pulse heights, linearity of response, resolution as a function of gamma energy, emission decay constant, response to alpha and beta, and the relative pulse height as a function of temperature from -60° C. to +160° C."
"The fluorescent response functions of NaI(Tl), CsI(Tl), CsI(Na) and CaF2(Eu) have been determined with thin crystals over the energy range from 3.3 keV to 840 keV. A pronounced nonlinear dependence on photon energy has been observed in this region for all four types of crystals investigated. Qualitatively the response functions for NaI(Tl), CsI(Tl) and CsI(Na) are similar down to a photon energy of about 20 keV, but major differences are observed at lower energies. The response function of CaF2(Eu) is very different from the response functions for the other three crystals over the entire energy range examined. Both K-shell and L-shell absorption edge discontinuities are evident in the fluorescent response curves for Na(Tl) and CsI(Tl). Only K-shell absorption edge discontinuities could be observed in the response curves for CsI(Na) and CaF2(Eu). A nonlinear fluorescent dependence on electron energy is indicated for all four types of crystals. Discontinuities in the spectral resolution function are observed in NaI(Tl) at energies corresponding to both the K-shell and L-shell absorption edges of iodine. A shift toward longer wavelengths in the light spectrum emitted by NaI(Tl) in response to excitation by X-rays with energies below about 10 keV may also be indicated by photomultiplier-dependent differences observed only at the lowest energies."
"The results from a study of the use of noble gases without wavelength shifters as scintillation detectors for nuclear particles are presented. The spectra and the time dependence of the fluorescence induced by 𝑎-particles in helium, neon, argon, krypton and xenon, have been investigated by single photoelectron techniques and are reported. A study of the scintillation efficiency as a function of gas pressure and of dimensions of the scintillation chamber, shows the great importance of geometrical factors in light collection. In all cases, experimental results on pulse heights and decay times would be reproduced within ± 5 % and the operation of these gas scin tillators as particle detectors was found to be satisfactory."
"We consider in this paper the relative importance of noise, trapping and recombination of carriers in determining the overall energy resolution of semiconductor gamma-ray spectrometers. In particular we present a detailed analysis of the effects of trapping. Our model derives from an earlier study by Northrop and Simpson1, but we have been able to eliminate some approximations made in their analysis which are quite important under practical conditions. Relationships are derived between the total signal charge, its mean square deviation, and the drift lengths of electrons and holes in a planar detector. The results show that very stringent conditions are necessary in order to achieve the energy resolution which has been reported in some instances. It is shown that electron and hole drift lengths should be as closely equal as possible in a good detector. A uniform geometry, either wholly planar or wholly coaxial, is shown to be desirable."
"Thick planar detectors have been produced by ac drifting. Lithium is diffused on two opposite surfaces of a p-germanium block, thus producing an n+ pn+ structure with two diodes back to back. Drift then proceeds from the two surfaces on alternate half cycles of the ac field. When the two compensated regions meet, one n-contact is removed and replaced by a p-contact. Any remaining uncompensated regions are then compensated by a dc drift. The p-contact is produced by diffusing gallium-indium eutectic at 400°C. By this technique it is possible to drift as deep at 2 cm and thus to produce a large volume detector with low capacitance."
"A U-junction drifting configuration has been used which permits the fabrication of large volume, low-capacitance detectors in much less time than previously required. For example, it is now possible, with good material, to fabricate in approximately one week an 18-cm3 diode with 3-pF capacitance. The U-junction structure is partially wrapped around three sides of a parallelepiped of the desired dimensions. The drifting then proceeds toward the remaining side of the detector. At the completion of the drift, only a narrow strip of P-type material remains along one edge. The portion of the lithium junction used for the rapid drift is now lapped off, leaving the low-capacitance junction structure for the collection of the charge. No further processing is required, and the diode is ready for mounting. Initial tests on two 6-cm3 U-junction detectors indicate that the diodes have the expected capacitance of about 2 pF and a relatively thin window. A resolution of 705 eV for the 60-keV gamma ray of Am241 has thus far been obtained, and the measured Fano factor of 0.157 is consistent with the currently accepted value."
"Lithium-drifted germanium detectors have been fabricated in the form of a cylindrical annulus. The forming of the annular shape was made feasible by using a spark cutting machine. The annular shape, being highly symmetrical, permits standardization of the techniques of gamma spectroscopy."
"Large coaxial Ge(Li) diodes have been assembled in multiple arrays in one cryostat in order to provide spectrometers of very large sensitive volumes. A double element and a four element spectrometer are described in detail. The latter spectrometer has a total sensitive volume of 180 cm3. The efficiencies and resolutions of the spectrometers were neasured for various combinations of diodes and summing procedures . In the optimium arrangement for the four element spectrometer, a resolution of 15 keV at 1.33 MeV was obtained, and the full energy efficiency was found to be equal to one quarter of that for a 3\" × 3\" NaI (Tl) scintillation counter. An efficiency curve for the two element spectrometer for energies up to 10 Mev is presented."
"A high-resolution semiconductor beta- and gamma-ray spectrometer is described. The spectrometer consists of a silicon or germanium detector, low-noise field-effect transistor preamplifier, and a linear amplifier. The requirements for the different sections for high-resolution performance are outlined. The detectors used are low-capacitance, low-leakage devices cooled to low temperatures. The preamplifier utilizes the low-noise characteristics of a cooled junction-field-effect transistor. These characteristics are described and several types of FET's are compared. A single FET, incorporated in a voltage-sensitive input stage, provides an optimum signal-to-noise ratio. Pulse generator resolution of the preamplifier for zero external capacitance is 0.4 keV FWHM (Ge) with a slope of 0.038 keV/pF. Typical resolution obtained in the spectrometer in the low-energy region is 0.7 keV. Recent measurements show that the cooling system is one of the main noise sources of the spectrometer. More than 20% improvement in resolution was observed in preliminary experiments when this noise source was suppressed."
"The window of surface barrier detectors is an important source of error in energy measurements for protons and heavier ions. Two methods were used to measure the thickness of this window. In the first the pulse height defect was measured for protons and deuterons as a function of the particle energy. The results show that the window includes the gold layer plus a dead region of silicon (or oxide), the thickness of which depends upon the applied bias. In the second method, the detector was used as a photodiode, and the absorption of light at values of wave length between 0.4 and 0.6 μ was measured. The values of thickness (≃ 1000 Å) of the dead region in silicon obtained by these two methods are in good agreement."
"A gamma-ray spectrometer, using a 30 cc coaxial Ge(Li) detector, which can be operated as a 3 crystal pair spectrometer at high energies and in the Compton suppression mode at low energies, provides an effective means for studying complex gamma spectra. Pair spectrometer operation enhances peak to background ratios by reducing background and eliminating single escape and full energy peaks. The peak to background ratio for the 2.614 MeV gamma of ThC\" is improved by about a factor of 70 with only a factor of 7 loss of efficiency. The energy resolution (fwhm) of the spectrometer is approximately 0.5% at 1 MeV and 0.1% at 7 MeV allowing capture gamma energies to be determined to an accuracy of about 1 keV. A comparison is given of the performance of the pair spectrometer using two smaller Ge(Li) detectors (3 cc and 5 cc) and the large 30 cc detector. Capture gamma spectra of Ti and Zr are given to illustrate the performance of the spectrometer."
"A lithium-drifted silicon detector used as a pulse radiation dosimeter is described. It is used to measure the depth-dose distribution of pion beams in water. The fractional dose due to energy depositions above a particular energy in the detector can also be measured. Such measurements yield information on the distribution of ionization density. Preliminary results of the pion-beam dosimetry using this pulse dosimeter are given."
"The linearity of the collected charge/keV has been determined as a function of energy between 4.9 and 75 keV for cooled lithium-drifted silicon detectors. Nonlinear effects for applied field intensities up to 1 kV/cm have been observed to extend to photon energies above 30 keV. Extrapolation to infinite fields does not remove the nonlinear effects for photon energies below 10 keV, indicating an intrinsic nonlinear response at low energies. The charge conversion factor appears to be independent of energy within 0.2% down to 10 keV."
"Fabrication technology and characteristics of totally depleted radiation detectors prepared by planar techniques will be described. These devices prepared from p-type silicon with resistivities from 500 - 50,000 ohm-cm receive a boron diffusion, an oxidation step and a phosphorus diffusion step. All contacts utilise ultrasonic bonding. The devices will operate as detectors over the temperature range 77°K to 150°C. Detailed performance of these units will be presented."
"The general-purpose stored-program computer has become more and more prevalent as the central on-line element in today's facilities for low-energy nuclear research. This paper explores the techniques for on-line data taking and the benefits to be derived from the computer usage. The operating concepts of early and present installations are surveyed and related to the computer hardware and software that has been selected. A look is taken at some proposed installations for the future, and the issues they raise."
"The development of larger, more accurate analog-to-digital converters and high resolution detectors has given rise to many new problems in the acquisition and analysis of data. This paper will present examples of how these problems have been approached using a small computer (DEC PDP-8). Although the examples to be presented deal with gamma-ray spectra, the techniques used should be applicable to beta or particle spectra. The major problems presently associated with the analysis of gamma-ray spectra are centered around the large volumes of data accumulated in a typical experiment. Large amounts of time elapse when these data are analyzed on a large computer in a batch-type operation. The time loss is not in the actual computing time, but in the formating of data, large turn-around times, and correlating information in listings and plots of the data. All of these bottlenecks have been either substantially reduced or eliminated by using the small computer connected to an oscilloscope and light pen. The spectrum is stored in the computer memory and can be displayed and manipulated in many different ways by using sense switch operations plus the concept of an electronic keyboard on an oscilloscope. This system allows an experimenter to determine transition energies, photopeak intensities, etc., in one setting as opposed to time lapses of as great as two weeks under previous conditions. Thus delays due to turn-around times, listing and plotting, and correlating information on the lists and plots have been eliminated."
"A major problem in multiparameter data sorting is the excessive computer memory space required for all of the available information. This paper describes a sorting technique which is useful if the information in one parameter can be represented by a simple distribution which can be described by the coefficients of an appropriate transformation. It is possible to compute the coefficients without accumulating the data in spectral form. For example, consider a three parameter experiment where the events are characterized by x, y and f(x,y). Suppose that the purpose of the experiment is to map the amplitude, mean, standard deviation, skew and kurtosis of f(x,y) over the x-y plane. It is necessary to reserve only five words in the computer memory for each location in the x-y plane. During the sorting process, the quantities accumulated in these five registers are ΣΣ0i, Σa1i, Σa2i, Σa3i, Σa4i, where ai is the digital value of f(x,y) for the ith event. Use of the Gauss-Hermite quadrature and the Fourier transformation are discussed and illustrated by an example (the measurement of secondary electron yields as a function of fission fragment mass and energy)."
"In particle-particle coincidence experiments with semiconductor detectors, the chief limitation on resolving time often lies in the time required for charge collection, particularly if the energy ratio of the two detected particles varies over a wide range. However, the penetration depth of the particles and hence their collection time is a function of their energy. By measuring the arrival time difference for the two \"coincident\" signals, one may compare the timing with the energy and select only those events whose timing is appropriate to their energy. The time measurement has been carried out by using fast circuits to provide time-overlap signals, digitized into a few channels by a stacked discriminator. This information, along with the digitized energy signals, was fed to an on-line SDS 910 computer, which selected events according to a previous time-energy calibration. This calibration method was strictly empirical: the time and energy were initially recorded for all time channels simultaneously. On the basis of this data different parts of the kinematic line were assigned with a light pen to appropriate time channels, overlapping where necessary. The initial application of this method to the reaction H1(d,2p)n where the particle energies varied over a 20 to 1 range resulted in a factor of 3 improvement in the original 75 ns resolving time, using only 4 time channels. Twelve additional time channels now available should result in a considerable further improvement."
"This paper contains a description of a computer-operated system for studying the development of electromagnetic showers initiated by high-energy electrons in various materials. Sample results are shown for a shower produced by a beam of 900-MeV electrons incident on a block of copper. The research program in which the system will be utilized is briefly described."
"The installation of an SDS 910 computer at the Brookhaven 60\" Cyclotron four years ago represented one of the first on-line computer applications in nuclear physics. The experience gained with this computer and its application to the design of a second-generation system indicates some of the problems inherent in a computer-oriented laboratory as well as possible solutions. The development of a new system has been undertaken jointly at the Rutgers/Bell Accelerator at which the 910 system is now located and at the Brookhaven Cyclotron, in view of the common data handling problems at the two laboratories. In its present location the 910 is used 90% of the time by staff and students for data collection, leaving very little time for data analysis and programming. Experience indicates that these activities each require at least as much time as data collection in order to use the accelerator to best advantage. The solution to this problem is to use an advanced time-sharing computer to handle all applications from a number of user consoles. By using a fast disc file both to store data being accumulated and to furnish display information directly to the oscilloscopes, the central processor will be freed most of the time for program compiling and computation. Program development will be greatly speeded by the storage of source programs on the disc, with conversational editing and debugging from the consoles."
"The operating features of the SOPHYA (Supervisor of Physics Analysis) system as implemented for an EMR Advance Series 6050 computer at the Naval Research Laboratory's Isochronous Cyclotron are explained. Several independent experiments may be run concurrently with additional capability for a batch processing shadow time job. Each experimenter has acceses to the full library of general routines. The special purpose routines may be coded in Fortran or Assembly Language and included in the library. Standard package includes MATRIX SLICE routines, CRT display routines for single parameter and two parameter contour map or isometric display. Light pen control allows such operations as background subtraction, rotation of axes, etc. A digital method of particle identification is discussed in which an algorithm for evaluation of an identification constant is computed in realtime."
"A highly versatile digital data-handling system which can be utilized with any existing telemetry has been designed to specifically accept and control the output of a scintillation spectrometer. The system utilizes a 64-channel pulse-height analyzer in conjunction with a rate-accumulator for the determination of the spectrum and flux of the radiation to be measured. Random input data from the detector are sampled by the pulse-height analyzer and periodically presented to the telemetry at a rate which is consistent with the available bandwidth. Absolute counting-rate information for rates up to 106 counts/sec as measured by the rate-accumulator is merged with the spectrum data into a common serial output under the control of a master clock. Synchronization patterns are introduced periodically to make the resulting pulse-coded wavetrain recognizable to automatic computer-compatible processing equipment. Coded time information is also introduced periodically when the system is used in conjunction with a satellite tape recorder. A detailed description of the system and its operation with all of the telemetry systems in general use is presented. A description of an economical decoder for field processing of the data from the system is also given. Finally, the use of an automatic computer-oriented data-processing system for handling flight data from the digital spectrometer is described."
"Spacecraft carrying large numbers of scientific instruments are presently transmitting data at the rate of approximately 100 million data points per day. The outputs of the sensors are partially processed on the spacecraft and transmitted to the ground. These data must then be converted from raw digital form into a conceptually meaningful form which the experimenters can analyze and from which they can draw valid conclusions about the phenomena being measured. At present the ground processing is done in several steps. The first includes conversion of the raw data acquisition station tapes into computer tapes and includes signal clean-up, establishment of synchronization, and time decoding. In the newest processing lines this first step also includes a moderate amount of editing and quality control. The rest of the steps involve large scale computers and include further editing, establishment of accurate timing, computation of the spacecraft attitude, and sorting, to provide data tapes for the individual experimenters. The experimenters have the responsibility for the further reduction to more meaningful form. These operations include further sorting, storage, compilation, computation, and display. There is at present a great need for additional development of analysis and display programs, techniques, and equipment to assist in this work."
"A new technique has been drvised for transforming the pulse height distribution obtained from a lithium drifted germanium crystal used as a gamma-ray spectrometer into an energy, peak area vector. The computer operations required are simple enough to be performed by an on-line computer in about five seconds. The vector is generated from the raw pulse height distributed by the subtraction of a smoothed version of the raw vector. In order to remove the statistically insignificant portions of the differences, all values less than twice the square root of the original element of the data are set equal to zero. The only remanent of the Compton contribution to the raw data is a small peak at the Compton edge. The resulting vector may be plotted directly or further transformed to sum the area under each peak providing a convenient graphic or tabular means of presenting the gamma-ray energy and relative intensity information."
"The beta spectrum, obtained by solid state or scintillation spectrometers, cannot be considered the \"true\" spectrum, due to the resolution and backscattering characteristics of the detectors. The \"true\" shape can be obtained from the experimental one by solving a Fredholm's integral equation of the first kind, having as kernel, the response function of the spectrometer. From the mathematical point of view this is an \"incorrectly posed problem\". A critical analysis on some usual numerical methods is presented, under the assumption of uniqueness of the solution. The replacement of the equation with a linear algebraic system is obtained by some quadrature formulas. Despite the formula used, the system is essentially illconditioned. The most currently used methods for linear system solutions are examined. The splitting of the response matrix in the product of the two matrices (resolution and back-scattering), as suggested by D. D. Slavinskas et al., appears a very useful tool. A block direct method, due to the block tridiagonal form of the resolution matrix, and a block iterative method are applied; direct inversion is suitable for the triangular matrix of the backscattering. The standard error on the unfolded spectrum, due to the standard error on the experimental spectrum, and to the response function parameter uncertainties is examined."
"A number of photographs of simulated multiparameter displays are presented, showing the visual effects of several different matrix spot intensity modulation techniques. It is seen that brightening the matrix spots in direct proportion to contents, or height contributes to the 3-dimensional illusion of isometric displays. It is also seen that brightening the matrix spots in approximate logarithmic, rather than linear proportion to contents provides improved highlighting of small picture detail, and prevents \"washout\" of picture under high ambient light viewing conditions. Conclusions are also drawn concerning the necessary CRT spot resolution for acceptable data picture quality, and minimum frame rate for flicker-free viewing."
"A flexible electronic system is described where each module performs a single function. The system has been designed around a digital data buss which allows read-out by typewriter, magnetic tape, computer or combinations of these. Besides those associated directly with magnetostrictive spark chambers the system includes auxiliary modules such as scalers, pulse height to digital converters, event registers, and fixed data input so that all aspects of a particular event can be recorded. Sub modular techniques and integrated circuits reduce the required number of printed circuit boards and facilitate fabrication of special modules. Several operating systems are described."
"The Digital Autofluoroscope has been designed with an internal special-purpose data processor to provide the operator with automatic computation of the accumulated detector data. This computer gives the doctor the ability to optimize the data display without destroying the stored information. The computer will automatically do background subtraction, data averaging, and section integration. The accumulated data is permanently stored on a magnetic tape so that there can be further processing of the digital data on the Autofluoroscope console or on an offline digital computer. The off-line computer can be programmed to generate new magnetic tapes that can be played back into the Digital Autofluoroscope console. These new tapes can be the result of sophisticated computer analysis. In addition to the display of static and dynamic isotope distributions on the cathode ray tube, dynamic data can be recorded on a strip chart recorder. Stop frame operation, where data can be repetitively accumulated and then stored on magnetic tape, permits the data reduction and observation of radioisotope clearance through body organs. With the use of a \"light pen\" selector on the cathode ray tube selected areas of the display can be integrated, extracted, and recorded as a function of time. Three independently selected areas are available for recording in this manner. The Autofluoroscope has two means of data storage. The coincidence current core magnetic memory storage is used to collect the crystal scintillation data rapidly. The core memory contains one frame of data."
"Medical scanning procedures which provide a visual image of the distribution of a radioisotope in internal organs are customarily done using nuclides which emit gamma rays of relatively low energy. In the study of deeply placed organs, such as the heart, most of the radiation is absorbed or scattered by tissue located between the site of interest and the detector. Through the use of K42 (1.5 mev gamma) and heavily shielded detectors, satisfactory visualization of the regional tracer uptake in the heart muscle has been obtained. In order to separate radioactivity originating in muscle from that in the circulating blood, a regression analysis of the changes in counting rate with time at each of 960 locations was made by computer processing of serial scans."
"A method of analysis previous developed by Williamson for calculating the light output of conical light pipes is extended to end-window scintillators whose surfaces are specularly reflecting. If the larger base of the scintillation frustum adjoins a photodetector of greater index of refraction than the scintillator, all of the generated light can be collected in four or less reflections for a wide range of frustum geometries. Light collection properties are tabulated as a function of tapering angle, ratio of base diameter to altitude, and surface reflectivity with an accuracy of better than 80% over a wide range of parameters by assuming all of the light to be generated at the center of the median altitude."
"C. Josias and J. Lawrence, Jr., authors of \"An Electrometer for Use in Scientific Space Instruments,\" which appeared on pages 25-36 of the October, 1966, issue of these Transactions, have called the following to the attention of the Editor. Mr. Josias' biographical material, accompanying the paper, was not upto- date. Mr. Lawrence's biographical material was not included in the issue. Revised biographies and photographs of these authors are provided."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Advertisement, IEEE."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"Provides notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"The thermal neutron cross section of Er167 has been obtained by measuring the relative number of Erl68 atoms formed by radiative neutron capture, when isotopically pure Er167 samples were exposed to a highly-thermalized neutron flux. A four-stage mass spectrometer was used to provide a 106/1 isotopic enrichment of Er167. It was also employed it measure the postirradiation Er168/Er167 isotopic ratios of the samples, which were placed in the D2O moderated Argonne CP-5 reactor. The integrated neutron flux, and effective neutron temperature in this reactor were also monitored mass spectrometrically, by observing isotopic ratio changes in nuclides whose cross section as a function of temperature are known. Two rare earth isotopes Sm149 and Gd157, were selected as the \"non-l/v\" absorbers that yielded this data. The effective neutron cross section of Er167 was found to be 740 ± 21 barns, at an effective neutron temperature of 42.8 + 2.5°C, with an integrated neutron flux of 3.37 ± 0.08 × 1019 neutron/cm2. The thermal (2200 m/sec) neutron cross section of Er167 was then calculated to be 699 ± 20 barns."
"Direct measurements of the statistical gain fluctuations occurring in the electron multiplication process in a sampling of multiplier phototubes are reported. The results are expressed in terms of the effective reduction of the photocathode quantum efficiency, i.e. the noise factor, as determined by a comparison of the experimentally observed output signal-to-noise ratio with the expected ratio based on independent direct current measurements of photocathode quantum efficiency. The spread in the measured magnitudes of the resultant noise factor, in nominally identical tube types, is sufficient to demonstrate that both photocathode quantum efficiency and electron multiplier noise factor should be specified if optimum detector performance is to be assured."
"Results of statistical correlation measurements for obtaining information in a complex system are presented. Experiments were performed on four nuclear power plants using conventional plant instrumentation. Inherent fluctuations (noise), response to forced random, sinusoidal and step variations in reactivity were studied. Frequency domain analysis of the data was performed with a special purpose analog type analyzer for determining power and cross-power spectral densities. Results obtained demonstrate that 1) significant semi-quantitative information on the process can be obtained from power spectral analysis on inherent fluctuations: and 2) cross-power spectral techniques permit frequency response measurements and system parameter determination in commercial nuclear plants."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Provides a listing of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Advertisement, IEEE."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current committee members."
"The advent of the isochronous cyclotron, capable of accelerating a wide selection of particles with energies variable up to limits previously inaccessible, has spurred the development of techniques leading to increased knowledge of orbit behavior and hence to external beams of greatly bettered quality. Among these activities are improved methods of magnet design, of field control and of beam diagnostics, novel means of launching the projectiles and more effective extraction schemes. Increased versatility has engendered new obstacles; e.g., space charge and charge exchange problems in the use of heavy ions. Advances in synchrocyclotrons, though still largely in the planning stage, reflect the present state of the art of spiral orbit machines. Increased current is the major goal. A variety of schemes for better axial focusing and higher repetition rate are under consideration. Beam stretching and improved focusing by grids or by einzel-type lenses have already been achieved."
"The beam systems which have been developed for use in high energy injection experiments in thermonuclear research are described. An attempt is made to compare the quality of these beams (not the relative merit of the injection systems). Problems peculiar to the production of intense dc beams are discussed."
"A new and more flexible ion source assembly has been built for continued study of a duoplasmatron with an expanded plasma front and a cylindrical Pierce-electrode extraction geometry. Studies of conditions necessary for the formation of an expanded plane plasma boundary are discussed, and progress toward the achievement of an aberration-free parallel beam of several hundred mA of protons is reviewed. Recent studies suggest that a duoplasmatron with an expanded plasma front and a diverging Pierce-electrode extraction geometry would produce significantly higher aberration-free beam currents than can be obtained with the present cylindrical geometry. The information necessary for the design of lens optics for matching such a source, or any source which produces a diverging aberration-free beam, to an accelerator or plasma containment device is provided in a convenient and comprehensive form by beam characteristic curves which give beam radius and divergence as functions of perveance at some convenient measuring plane close to the extractor for several fixed values of arc current. Data provided by a constant perveance experiment establish practical limits on obtainable beam current at the chosen design points on the characteristic curves."
"This work describes a study of the Duoplasmatron ion source for the purpose of investigating the conditions necessary to improve its performance. First a general review is made of theoretical considerations involved in the source's plasma mechanism and the geometry of the extraction system. Then the experimental work deals with the arc discharge characteristics as well as the source's performance when the beam is extracted with a simple Pierce extracting electrode. Through an invar anode insert a 70 mA was obtained at 35 kV. The main improvement was then due to beam extraction from an expansion cup which rendered a 300 mA beam at a lower voltage of 18 kV. The use of different anode materials has indicated the influence of magnetic field penetration on plasma focusing within the expansion cup. A beam current reaching 1 ampere was noticed when a non-magnetic anode was used."
"The characteristics of a 10 cm P.I.G. (Penning ionization gauge) discharge and its application as an ion source at a low pressure are given. Using a hot cathode two regions of operation are found, one above and the other below 1 micron. Pulsed ion current reaching 1 Ampere could be extracted from this source through a 10 cm diameter gridded cathode at a discharge current of about 20 Amperesand a gas pressure of 0.5 micron. The cathode discharge current was found to contain electrons. The ion current to the reflector cathode is about 10% of the discharge current."
"A description is given of a duoplasmatron type ion source which features a novel, open cylindrical extractor electrode, a visible arc chamber and a short-path magnetic circuit. The glass spacer in the arc chamber permits observation of the plasma and filaments. The short magnetic circuit gives high plasma density at low magnet and arc currents. The open extraction geometry provides high pumping speed to the source and reasonable tolerances for anode alignment. Above a critical value of extraction voltage the ion emission is independent of voltage. At 16 kV, a 5 mA beam of mixed hydrogen ions can be obtained through an 0.008 in. anode aperture. Gas consumption is about 5 atm.-cc/ hr. with a conversion efficiency of about 70%. Proton yield is usually better than 50% of the total beam current under these conditions. The emittance (phase space area) is about 3 mrad.-cm. MeV½ at 1.0 mA."
"The development, characteristics and emittance of the Penning discharge ion source used in the Cosmotron injector are described. The maximum value of brightness reported is 3 × 1012 mA cm-2 rad-2 at 78 mA total current, 23 keV beam energy. The results are superior to recent values for duoplasmatrons from various laboratories, except for total current."
"High beam currents have been achieved with a radial source which fits into the 2-inch gap of a 30-inch cyclotron. The geometry is that of a cold-cathode or P. I. G. source. However, the cathodes are heated to thermionic temperatures by ion bombardment rather than a conventional high-current heated filament. The source is now in use and produces intense beams of H+, D+, He3, and alpha particles. Internal beams of H+ or D+ of more than one mA are obtained routinely at extraction radius. In addition, 30 μA of H- or D- are obtained at a stripping foil by merely reversing the magnetic field of the cyclotron."
"Recent achievements with iridium surface ionization ion sources are discussed. These sources can be used to produce ion beams of elements with ionization potentials from 5-1/2 to 6 V, e. g., the IILA metals (Al, Ga, In and Tl), the rare earths, the heavier alkaline earths, and Li, in addition to the usual heavier alkalis. Ion beams of Li, Al, Ga, and In have been produced here. Ionization efficiencies, critical temperatures, current densities, and beam purities as measured by magnetic mass separation are discussed. An ion source design being employed for the IIIA metals is described briefly."
"The design criteria for a source of 5-10μA of He- ions suitable for tandem accelerator application have been investigated. The process used is a nearly-resonant charge exchange between He+ ions, from a duoplasmatron, and potassium vapor. In the He+ energy range of 5-25 keV, the He-/He+ yield has been measured as a function of He+ energy. Yields of ~2%/ have been observed. A He- beam emittance of 1.2 × 10-2 cm rad eV1/2 has been measured. The potassium flux into the system was found to be ~1016 particles/s."
"Earlier versions of the He- source suffered from cesium metal collecting on insulators and entering the r. f. source. A single acceleration gap is used to reduce the number of insulators requiring protection and additional shielding of the remaining insulators is provided. The new version also uses a gridded focusing element. Additional baffling and smaller entrance and exit apertures for the exchange canal have eliminated the flow of cesium vapor into the r. f. source. A further modification to produce higher current adds an einsel lens between the r. f. source and the exchange canal."
"Several modifications of the ion source of a model EN Tandem Van de Graaff Accelerator have increased the production of 4He- beams by a factor of 100 over that first obtained with the source (~10 nA). While using H2 gas for charge exchange, the replacement of the source drift tube by a screen and the installation of a system for precise adjustment of the button alignment with respect to the extractor electrode increased the output to 150 nA at the ion source. Recently potassium vapor has been used for charge exchange. Since the introduction of this technique, 4He- beam currents of 1. 2 μA have been regularly produced. The 4He+ ions from a duoplasmatron ion source are accelerated to 20 keV and passed through the standard exchange canal which is modified by the addition of a potassium vapor chamber. Analyzed 4He++ beams of 0.3 to 0.8 μA have been obtained with terminal voltage between 1.8 and 6 MV. The modified source has been used with K-vapor exchange for continuous periods of up to 120 hours without deterioration of source performance. Normal operation with H2 gas exchange for other beams is possible without the interruption of the source operation."
"A triode electron gun is described which has been developed to meet the increasing interest in short pulse high current operation. The gun is of variable perveance capable of injecting at least 15 amps under short pulse conditions (1 nanosecond) and 1.5 amps under long pulse conditions (5 microseconds) with a beam diameter of 1 cm. Considerations of beam geometry have lead to the choice of a convergent flow Pierce-type gun incorporating an intercepting grid giving an amplification factor μo of 100 and a maximum beam perveance of 0.7μP for the high current condition. A conventional oxide cathode is used. The cathode-grid structure, which is plug-in replaceable, forms part of a 50 ohm co-axial system mounted on the gun base from which a matched 50 ohm co-axial feeder is taken to the modulator. Some experimental results for long and short pulse operation are given."
"In the design of high-perveance electron beam devices, it is necessary to evaluate the effects of the self-fields on the beam trajectories as well as the effects of any external electromagnetic fields that may be present. This paper describes a means whereby the self-consistent solution of Poisson's equation, the relativistic equations of electron motion, and the equation of charge continuity, all subject to specified boundary conditions, are determined by means of a digital computer program. In particular the method is applied to the case of an axially symmetric, solid-beam electron gun where the electrons are emitted with zero initial velocity from a spacecharge-limited cathode."
"The design of the electron gun for an electron linear accelerator is of prime importance in achieving a small emittance volume and good reliability. This paper discusses phase space concepts useful in gun design, the design of the SLAC electron gun, and tests of its performance. A convenient definition for the effective area in phase space of a finite set of calculated points is proposed and a discussion of the increase in transverse phase space within a linear accelerator is presented. The SLAC gun is a Pierce spherical triode with a 50-ohm coaxial input to the grid. The gun is designed to operate with 80 kV dc between the cathode and the anode. The current in the beam can be varied from 2 A peak to less than 10-8 A peak by varying the grid to cathode voltage over a range of about 1000 volts. The design permits use of either an oxide cathode radiantly heated or a thoriated tungsten cathode heated by electron bombardment."
"The SLAC injector is capable of being programmed for multiple beams of different beam pulse width and intensity on a pulse to pulse basis. Programming is accomplished remotely from the central control building, two miles away. The beam starts at the SLAC gun which is a Pierce triode with cathode operated at -80 KVDC. The gun modulator drives the grid-cathode gap with an 800 volt pulse of selectable pulse width. Selectable grid-cathode bias controls the current output of the gun. These selections are made on a pulse to pulse basis as required for multiple beam operation. For time of flight experiments which require a series of very short pulses, or even a series of single bunches of electrons, a transverse sweeper phase locked to a subharmonic of the bunching frequency is used in the injector to chop the beam accordingly."
"The electrostatic and electromagnetic straight-line accelerators originated by Robert Van de Graaff for nuclear science have, for very heavy ions, moved toward the GeV level through advances in high voltage technology applied to the multi-stage (tandem) acceleration of multistripped ions. An account is given of the discreet steps in this exponential progress which depends basically on the maximum reliable voltage of one or a series of terminals. Recent studies on compressed gas insulation and on the control of electrical processes within long high-gradient acceleration tubes are described. These indicate the possibility of further substantial increases in terminal and column gradients applicable later to existing accelerators and to enlarged goals for new ones."
"A method for effectively suppressing the electron loading in accelerator tubes is described, which utilises transverse magnetic fields. The electron trapping is achieved without affecting tube optics or producing undesirable ion beam deflections at the tube exit, even when the stack voltage gradient is disturbed."
"A situation often exists in modern electrostatic accelerators where improved pumping speed is necessary for the removal of ion source or stripper gases and the obtaining of an acceptable degree of vacuum. The tube developed for this purpose at A.W.R.E. fulfills this purpose without degradation of machine performance."
"A high voltage, high gradient accelerating column to provide good optics for high current beams has been built and tested by MURA. Design details were chosen to eliminate all possible sparking or corona discharges for reliable high voltage performance. The 12-in. accelerating gap features stainless steel spherical geometry electrodes shaped to produce a converging field. The electrodes are supported by titanium alloy spacers bonded to ceramic rings with a vinyl seal. There are 14 ceramic rings of 14 in. ID, 16 in. OD, and 1-15/32 in. long, giving a column length of 21 in. This column is insulated externally by sulfur hexafluoride gas at three atmospheres absolute pressure confined by a fiber glass pressure shell. The completed column has been tested at 600 kV. Work is being done on ceramic-to-metal seals to eliminate organic materials."
"Interest in higher voltages for electron microscopy was stimulated by the successful operation of the world's most powerful electron microscope operating at a maximum voltage of 1.5 MV. Other installations have since been built covering the voltage range of 500 kV to 1 MV. A 1 MeV electron accelerator of the new pressurized type design is being constructed. The dc power supply and the accelerator are housed in separate pressure vessels and connected by a shielded high voltage cable. Projects involving electron accelerators up to 4 MeV are now under consideration."
"A large number of research laboratories are now using stabilized 600 kV dc power supplies of the entirely shielded design, with electronic ac supply and feed-back control systems.1 Recently, a new 600 kV power supply with a rated current of 20 mA has been marketed. At the present time, 1 MV dc power supplies which will operate in aluminum vessels under pressurized sulphur hexafluoride gas insulation are being constructed. The standard models have an overall stability including ripple voltage and noise of 1 part in 1000, both for continuous and pulsed operation."
"The symmetrical 4 MV cascade generator is a dc accelerator power supply which provides both high voltage and high current capability at low ripple voltage.1 The problems usually encountered in the accelerating tube like total voltage effect, electron loading, and X-ray generation were solved by utilizing built-in permanent magnets for the deflection of the backstreaming electrons. This design reduces electron loading and brings the X-ray intensity down to a harmless level. With a R. F. ion source of conventional design, proton currents up to 1 mA at 4 MeV were actually obtained on the target. A further increase in the beam current is expected by the use of a duoplasmatron ion source."
"On the basis of ready availability and reasonable cost, methyl methacrylate (lucite or plexiglass) has proven to be suitable for use as the structural material in the high voltage columns of Dynamitron accelerators. This material has reasonably high tensile strength, good machining characteristics, ready availability at reasonable cost, and good electrical properties such as high dielectric strength, high resistivity and resistance to surface tracking. The structures made of Acrylic material conform to standard forms of beam analysis provided deflections are kept within reason and stress within recommended limits. A 4.0 Mev column 15 feet long by 42 inches in diameter, supporting at a total weight of 1500 pounds is now in operation. The cinch rod method of supporting beam tubes has proven to be practical and allows several side benefits, such as easy handling, allowing for short sections of the tube to be replaced if damaged, ease of insertion of apertures if and when required, and assembly of modular sections to any given length desired. A new method, a combination of cinch rods and counter weights, has proven a satisfactory improvement that still has these desirable features without requiring unreasonable cinch rod tension. A 4.0 Mev tube 12 feet long, weighing 480 pounds and carrying an ion source, lens and getter-pump assembly weighing 55 pounds at the high voltage end is now in operation."
"In an effort to improve the energy stability and operating convenience of the Rutgers-Bell FN Tandem, a study has been made of the processes involved in the standard Van de Graaff corona stabilization system. In the light of these observations, a terminal voltage control system has been designed using error signals derived both from the slit system and the capacity pickoff plates. The system operates using either the standard slit system, or the machines' Generating Voltmeter as the terminal voltage reference, switching automatically to the G. V. system when beam is lost for any reason."
"The stability of the Dynamitron high voltage generator is influenced by several factors: 1) beam load changes, 2) changes in the power mains, 3) frequency components in d.c. anode power to the oscillator tubes, and 4) modulation due to a.c. heated filaments. A brief analysis based on experimentally obtained data and the reasons for stabilizing the generated voltage by means of a multi-loop feedback system are presented. Measurements made on a 3.0MeV accelerator show that terminal ripple is 1500 volts peak-to-peak and that the regulation from zero to six milliamperes of beam is less than ±1500 volts. Future improvements in the generator and regulating electronics design should result in reducing the ripple to 600 volts peak-to-peak and the regulation to ±600 volts."
"The presence of a positive ion beam of the JN accelerator was necessary for the production of any significant radiation. Most of the bremsstrahlung produced is a result of electrons striking the focus electrode and the third electrode of the accelerator tube. For the operating conditions discussed above, this source of radiation was about five times as intense as a 1 millicurie co60 source placed at an equivalent distance from the JN spectrometer. A second source of radiation of less intensity was found to originate in the vicinity of the gas reservoir above the ion source. This could be due to bremsstrahlung being scattered at 900 by the reservoir bottles. From these results, it is recommended that the region around the focus electrode of the accelerator tube be shielded more effectively or that the material of the electrode be changed to a smaller Z material (e.g. beryllium) to reduce radiative loss of the electrons. The CN accelerator ion sources exhibit more structure in the intensity distribution measurements. This structure persists at 3, 4, and 5 million volts on the terminal, although the intensity of the x-radiation observed increases rapidly with terminal voltage. The most intense radiation observed with the d.c. beam R.F. ion source came from the base of the ion source glass bottle. Intense bremsstrahlung was also observed as originating at the upper focus electrode nozzle shoulder and at the base of the nozzle."
"An improved sulphur hexafloride (SF6) gas handling system has been designed and built for the Lewis Research Center 3.0 Mev Dynamitron Accelerator1 utilizing the original components provided with the accelerator. The purpose of the system is to remove the gas from the accelerator when opening is necessary, purify and store it, and return it to the vessel. The advantages are; reduction in cycle time from 7 hours to about 3 hours, reduction in unretrieved gas from 7% to as little as 0.02%, compactness and improved purification resulting from liquefaction and additional filtering, and safe, reliable semiautomatic operation. Design considerations, fabrication techniques, and performance evaluation of the system are given."
"The proton linear accelerator for the Los Alamos Meson Physics Facility will require 45 one-megawatt, 800-MHz rf power sources. The minimum duty factor requirement is 6% (500 μs pulse 120 c/s); eventually, a 12% duty factor (1000 μs pulse 120 c/s) will be needed. The accelerator structure which is the load for the amplifier has a high Q (typically between 20,000 and 30,000); the amplifier loading is further complicated by a variable beam load which may absorb as much as 30% of the amplifier output. Triodes, klystrons, and crossedfield amplifiers all show promise for this service. The Los Alamos Scientific Laboratory is testing and comparatively evaluating these three rf systems. The systems are described in this paper and a discussion of the evaluation program is given."
"Recent progress in the design and testing of the fast feedback rf control system being developed for the Los Alamos Meson Physics Facility (LAMPF) proton linac is reviewed. Closed-loop rf phase control with correction bandwidths greater than 200 kHz is demonstrated using a coaxitron power amplifier driving a full-scale accelerator structure. Proposed experimental studies to determine control characteristics, synthesize closedloop amplitude control systems, and study phase-amplitude interactions in 1.25-MW, 6% s duty factor klystron, triode, and crossed-field amplifier systems are outlined. Ectremely phase-stable frequency sources have been developed to supply reference signals at 201.25 MHz and 805 MHz. The design and testing techniques used to verify phase stability and mutual coherence of the harmonically related outputs are sumnarized."
"As the beam loading is increased in a proton linear accelerator, it becomes increasingly more difficult to maintain the design gradient. To avoid excessive beam spill, this gradient must be controlled to a tolerance of ~ ± 1% during the initial transient of beam turn-on and during any subsequent fluctuation in beam loading due to uncontrolled or programmed variations in the amount of beam injected. Since the beam obtains its energy from the field, more power must be supplied by the rf generator when the beam is on. High-power microwave triodes, klystrons, and crossed-field amplifiers are being evaluated as generators to drive the accelerator structure of the LAMPF proton linac. The delivery of power from these tubes to the time-varying load impedance presented by the linac is a complicated interplay among such factors as the internal design of the tube's active region and output coupling section, the length of line between the generator and the load, and the coupling to the load. An optimum system design can enable the generator to provide a degree of self-compensation providing a programmed amount of power to match the changing load impedance. This eases the problem of providing fine control to the 1% tolerance by a closed-loop system. Experimental studies have been conducted on each tube type."
"This paper describes the design and performance of the RF drive system of the Stanford Two-Mile Linear Accelerator. The function of this system is to supply a drive signal of 240 watts to each of the 240-24 MW klystron amplifiers whose power accelerates the beam. The following sub-systems are discussed: A highly stable tunable master oscillator at 476 MHz, a 17.5 kW CW main booster amplifier, a two-mile temperature stabilized 3-1/8 inch diameter main drive line, 30 times-six varactor frequency multipliers, 30 pulse modulators and sub-booster klystrons, 30 temperature stabilized 1-5/8 inch diameter subdrive lines, isolator-phase shifter-attenuators used before each sub-booster and 24 MW klystron, the phase-stable interconnecting cables, and standby equipment."
"In the proposed SLAC electron-positron storage ring, two one-ampere, 3-GeV beams will radiate energy at the rate of 1.13 megawatts with 880-kV peak voltage required for storage. This energy is restored through a six-cavity rf system operating at 50 MHz, the 36th harmonic of the rotation frequency. Of the total power over 90% will be delivered to the beams with the remaining part to the cavities and their associated networks. An experimental ultra-high vacuum cavity designed to operate at 200 kV peak across its accelerating gap and capable of dissipating 20 kilowatts in wall losses is described. The requirements of an automatic tuning and coupling system which will match continuously the cavity and the beam to the amplifier output are discussed."
"To double the rate of particle energy gain per unit time, to offset heavier beam loading and to remove the electronic components to a radiation-free area, the AGS radio frequency acceleration system must be redesigned and rebuilt. The new system will be capable of delivering a total of 1440 kW RF power into 12 pairs of 50-ohm coaxial transmission lines 1100 feet long, terminating at 12 accelerating stations. Voltage amplitude and phase responses are closely controlled over a working frequency range of 1.4 - 4.5 MHz. The AGS conversion radio frequency power amplifier is composed of twelve final power amplifier stages, driven in groups of six by two paralleled drivers. These latter units are in turn driven by a cascade of lower level predriver stages. The final and driver stages are identical push-pull wideband ferrite transformer coupled grounded grid triode circuits housed in separate enclosures, each with its necessary control and safety system. The predriver is a four stage push-pull amplifier cascade with grounded grid triodes and grounded cathode tetrodes and pentodes, initially excited by a fractional voltage input signal of the proper frequency and phase. The anticipated successful performance of the system is attributable to the stable push-pull grounded grid amplifier configuration, to the carefully selected power tube complement and to the specially designed ferrite core interstage and output transformers and their associated networks."
"A system consisting of four lengths of iris loaded waveguide, each driven by an adjacent klystron amplifier, is described. These waveguides which serve as the accelerating elements for a 10 GeV electron synchrotron are operated in the 2π/3 traveling wave mode at 714 MHz. The amplifiers have a common power supply and are driven from a common source which can be synchronized with the injector, a 150 MeV linac."
"The SOCE is designed with 11 radio frequency cavities (injector - 3, buncher - 2, SOC - 6), each requiring up to 15 kW of rf drive power under full beam loading. A separate three-stage power amplifier unit using an Eimac 4CW25, 000A tetrode as the final amplifier is provided for each cavity. Each unit is provided with automatic servo tuning, and with precise phase and amplitude regulation. A master signal generator supplies a common 50-MHz drive signal, which also serves as the phase reference. Although requirements vary from one cavity to another, all power amplifier units are identical and connected to a single set of dc power supplies and controls. The components were designed conservatively so that the rf system could be operated at greatly increased power levels for high intensity beam studies, with only the addition of an auxiliary dc plate power supply. Most of the design features in the SOCE's multiple-amplifier radio frequency system will be directly applicable to later SOC-type accelerators, even for a much higher total rf power requirement."
"A prototype resonator has been built and is under study. It tunes from 6.8 to 33 MHz and is designed to produce an accelerating gap voltage of 60 kV at 20 Mc. Sixty 30-in. -diam by 1/2-in.-thick ferrite discs are used. The resonator is excited by a final amplifier using an RCA 4616 tube designed to deliver a peak RF power of 300 kW. The paper also discusses studies of the RF drive train and the master oscillator, which tunes continuously from 1.5 to 33 MHz. It is a beat-frequency oscillator using a crystal-controlled fixed oscillator and a varactor-tuned variable oscillator. A ferrite magnet system, also under study, contains a coaxial, lumped-constant pulse line with a hydrogen thyratron switch tube coupled to a ferrite magnet. The pulse line uses ceramic capacitors and operates at one atmosphere of SF6. The rise time is 100 ns, the pulse width 5 Lsec, and the repetition rate 60 pps. Peak instantaneous power during the pulse is 200 MW; average power is 65 kW."
"A high degree of stability, simplicity, and compactness has been achieved with the RF system in operation on a new 30-inch AVF cyclotron. The over-all size of this RF system has been reduced by bending the resonator from the horizontal to the vertical plane so that the RF system extends only 24 inches beyond the cyclotron coils. The resonant structure is a half-wave line terminated in two 120-degree dees. The dee capacity has been reduced by copper plating the cyclotron hill iron, which leaves the full valley gap under a large portion of the dees. The RF frequency, which is the same as the ion rotation frequency, is quickly and easily adjusted from 12.5 to 25 Mc by changing straps in the resonator which is in air. The system is powered by a grounded grid oscillator which uses a single triode. A dee-to-ground voltage of 35 kV at 25 Mc is routinely obtained with 30 kW of dc input to the oscillator. The minimum dee-to-ground gap is ½ inch. Other features of the system include biasing of the entire RF structure to prevent multipacting and a .01 per cent frequency regulation system."
"A compact oil immersed modulator is described suitable for driving a 30MW output klystron and using two 70KV 2,500 Amp hydrogen thyratrons as switches. The design is a development of an earlier modulator using a 70KV triggered spark gap. This earlier model was limited to a maximum repetition rate of about 250 p.p.s. but the thyratron switches permit operation to over 1000 p.p.s. and a maximum duty cycle of .001. Complete oil immersion in a single tank results in compactness, economy, reliability and facilitates the use of a high charging voltage which, in turn, leads to a simplification in the pulse circuit, particularly in relation to pulse flattening and pulse length selection. A high current silicon clipper is described which is used to reduce the inverse voltage and which still permits rapid thyratron recovery time."
"Improved computational methods have been developed which can reduce the trial and error process in the development of certain microwave power tubes that employ cavities with cylindrical symmetry. It has been found, for example, that the application of these computer codes to klystron cavities and internal cavity triodes reveal ways in which their performance can be improved and results in better understanding of experimental results. The computed results agree quite closely with measurements made of such quantities as frequency and operating efficiency."
"Each large particle accelerator which has been developed over the past years has been designed to yield information which was previously unavailable. Much of the design criteria depended upon the r.f. energy source available. This paper discusses the r.f. energy sources preserntly available. An extension is made to higher power tubes and the associated problems are discussed in detail."
"Modern high energy particle accelerators require that the high power r.f. amplifiers generate r.f. waveforms which are essentially distortion free. This usually is accomplished through the use of very expensive and complicated high power regulation equipment. This paper will discuss an alternate, relatively simple means of obtaining this regulation through the use of a unique high vacuum switch tube used directly in series with the r.f. amplifier."
"Equipment and procedures have been developed for measuring the axial accelerating electric field in proton linear accelerator cavities. The method used is the usual one of measuring the change in resonant frequency caused by a small perturbing sphere on the axis of the cavity. The frequency change is determined at millimeter intervals along the axis by measuring the corresponding period length using an on-line digital computer. The computation is carried out on the computer so that the derived fields can be obtained, integrated, plotted, and compared. The method is rapid and the increased precision of the measurement allows better knowledge of the fields in operating linear accelerators. This equipment has been used on the 50-MeV linac injector for the Zero Gradient Synchrotron at Argonne National Laboratory.1 It has also been used to measure the axial field in a cavity with fields which can be calculated using a field computational program.2 The measured and calculated field values have been compared."
"The centerline design of a 3 ampere steady-state linear accelerator is outlined and theoretical performance given. The techniques used for extending the blowup threshold are given along with pertinent cold test data. The injection system design is discussed along with methods used for handling high currents while providing 40 - 60° bunches."
"The AGS conversion requires twice the accelerating volts/turn and driving amplifiers removed from the ring to a central building. The accelerating cavities must be tuned over a frequency range of 2.5 MHz to 4.5 MHz. In addition the number of accelerating positions will be reduced from twelve to eight. These specifications combine to place severe restrictions on the accelerating cavity structure. To minimize power losses in the cavity it is necessary that more ferrite be added. A method of folding the cavities in the radial direction yields a structure which not only raises the cavity impedance, but also enables matching to the input line without using a broad band transformer. A further desirable feature of the structure is the ability to place four gaps, rather than two, in each accelerating straight section thus halving the voltage per gap and halving the voltage on the input lines. A sample computation has been made using currently available ferrite in sizes essentially the same as have been used at the AGS and PPA. The results look favorable and additional ferrites are being investigated to find higher μQf values."
"The RF accelerating cavities at the Brookhaven AGS are of the balanced, coaxial type, filled with ferrite to allow permeability tuning. The basic limitation in such a cavity is heat dissipation in the ferrite. It is the purpose of this paper to study the behavior of such a cavity as dc bias is applied to the ferrite. It will be shown that RF flux density is inversely proportional to radius only at zero bias; as the bias current increases, the flux density approaches a nearly uniform distribution, resulting in nearly uniform heating. The results are applied to the problem of increasing the operating voltage of the present AGS cavities as well as to the design of a new cavity for the AGS conversion project."
"Ferrite tuning circuits of the RF system for the 200-GeV machine require specialized components, because of the requirements for high current and for reliability under pulsing conditions. The present status of the LRL program to provide high-current supplies for ferrite biasing is described here."
"It is shown that the frequency-dependent input impedance of a lossless distributed network may be represented by the frequencies of the input impedance poles and zeros. Then, given the network reactance at a single frequency other than that of a pole or zero, one may apply Foster's reactance theorem to determine the input impedance at any frequency.1 Using the frequency-dependent impedance representation, one may calculate the response of the system to any periodic driving function."
"Coaxial cavities are recommended over TM cavities for use in separated-orbit cyclotrons (SOC's) under 100 MeV primarily because they are smaller and construction tolerances are less stringent. At some energy above 50 MeV, however, the TM cavity1 becomes more efficient. Particles can gain energy in a coaxial cavity with arbitrary spacing between gap centers; however, maximum energy gain occurs for a spacing of 0.5ßλ. In a multi-particle SOC a spacing can be selected to provide acceleration of several different particles. It becomes impractical to define modes in a coaxial cavity relative to the beam motion since the primary TEM mode is defined relative to the direction of wave propagation in the transmission line. Thus TE modes in this paper are likewise defined. The TE modes in a coaxial cavity produce an accelerating voltage which varies with machine radius. Three coaxial cavities have been constructed at ORNL. RF measurements on a 1/4-scale model of a 50-MeV cavity and on the SOCE model have been completed. The 50-MeV prototype cavity is now ready for testing."
"The object of this paper is to identify the many low temperature aspects of a cryogenic accelerator and to indicate how these are related to the operating characteristics which might ultimately be achieved."
"A study to determine the optuimum slow wave structure for a superconducting linear accelerator is being conducted. Vacuum, thermal, and mechanical problems at cryogenic temperatures impose limitations on such structures. Ultimately, the maximum energy gradient in a superconducting structure is limited by the critical magnetic field or electric field breakdown. At present a π/2, biperiodic, standing-wave structure is favored. Calculations of the dispersion diagram and longitudinal electric field profile has been obtained from a coupled resonator, normal mode analysis. A comparison is made with room temperature measurements on stacked test cells. The effects of full end cells and of incorrectly tuned cells on the flatness of the electric field profile are considered. The relationship between cell tuning and the presence of a stop band in the dispersion curve is shown. Problems of coupling to a high Q superconducting structure and tuning the frequencies of sections in a multi-section linac are considered. Results are given for the Q, the dispersion diagram, and the energy gain for a 952 MHz lead-plated superconducting structure 5 feet in length operating near 2°K."
"In this paper various aspects of the microwave system for RF beam separators using superconducting iris-loaded deflectors are discussed. This microwave system differs significantly from a conventional design. The differences stem mainly from the very high Q, the mandatory standing wave operation, and the lack of frequency adjustments by temperature changes. Successful operation of the separator depends on keeping two narrow bandwidth resonators (Δf ≈ 20 Hz) at the same frequency, fo ≈ 1.3 GHz, and in rigid phase relationship. Mechanical tuning of the deflectors must be provided in the form of a variable path length for a resonant ring or in the form of an adjustable short for a resonant cavity. The resonant deflector can be powered either from a common source or by using the deflector as frequency determining element in an oscillatory system. Both microwave systems are described and their relative merits are compared."
"A design study of a superconducting RF beam separator suitable for counter beams is presented. A simple two-deflector separation scheme permits one-contaminant rejection in momentum ranges from 8.5 to 19 GeV/c for P and Π beams and from 4.5 to 10 GeV/c for K beams. The operating wavelength λ = 24 cm was obtained by optimizing the transmission of wanted particles. An interdeflector spacing of L = 33 m follows. The geometrical configuration of the lead-coated iris-loaded structure is selected for highest bandwidth which is obtained when the ratio of aperture radius and wavelength is close to 0.2. The maximum deflecting field in the 3 m long resonant ring deflector is limited to about 7 MV/m. The superconducting structure is expected to have a shunt impedance of R ≈ 1012 Ω/m and an unloaded quality factor of Qo ≈ 1.5 × 109. The ensuing RF power requirements are discussed."
"To exploit fully the capabilities of the 200-BeV Accelerator, many experimental beams must be set up concurrently, and many magnets will be required. The great stiffness of secondary-particle beams having momenta around 100 GeV/c requires long magnets to provide reasonable focal lengths and deflections. The result is a very expensive system of dc beam-transport magnets, and a large expenditure for electric power. Recent spectacular advances in the technology of superconducting (SC) magnets have led us to consider the economics of replacing conventional magnets with equal numbers and kinds of SC magnets. We find the total capital-plus-operating costs of the two systems to be equal, within the accuracy of the analysis. We have, however, compared an optimized system of conventional magnets with a nonoptimized system of SC magnets. Perhaps we would get more physics per dollar with different sizes and numbers of SC magnets. We have not placed a dollar value on one of the major advantages of SC magnets--their higher magnetic-field capability. In some cases the higher fields offer no advantage, in others the advantages might be dramatic. Some beam lines may be shortened about in proportion to the increase in field. The result is less shielding and better usage of the rather expensive facilities. Better measurements can be made on particles having short lifetimes. The development of new SC devices, for example, separators and detectors, will be bolstered by the presence of other SC and cryogenic systems and capabilities."
"The selection of each dimension of a C-shaped, 18-cps alternating-gradient magnet core lamination is based upon reliability, design, and cost considerations. Cost differentials of magnet-gap height, pole-tip width, return-path widths, etc., are given. Stranded-conductor coils were found significantly more economical to operate than solid conductor coils because of the reduction in eddy-current power. Three cost minimums are discussed: the width of the flux return path, the coil conductor cross section, and the coil aspect ratio. The width of the flux-return path is emphasized and is selected slightly above the minimum cost where the magnetomotive force changes slowly."
"The effects of exposure to fast neutron radiation on the performance of a superconducting NbZr solenoid are reported. The irradiations and tests were carried out with the coil held near its operating temperature. Performance was determined by measuring the maximum current at which the coil quenched. Secondary irradiation from the 60-in ANL Cyclotron (1.2 × 109 neutrons/cm2/s at 3-13 MeV, peaked at 8 MeV) had no measurable effect upon the operation of the coil. At the ANL CP-5 reactor, a total dosage of 7.2 × 1017 neutrons/cm2 (fission neutrons above 0.7 MeV) caused no deterioration in the coil. A slight enhancement (2 to 3%) of coil performance was observed but this annealed out at room temperature. An exposure rate of 8.3 × 1011 neutrons/cm2/s produced sufficient nuclear heating to give severe degradation in coil performance to 20% of the initial quench current."
"Any desired two-dimensional magnetic field, which is compatible with Maxwell's equations in empty space, can be produced inside a given elliptic or circular cylinder by a distribution of currents flowing along the elements of the cylinder. Formulas are given for the required current distribution, the resulting external field, and for the total field energy in the internal and external regions. It is further possible to eliminate the external or stray field completely while producing the prescribed inner field by adding a second confocal elliptic (or coaxial circular) current sheet. Formulas are given for the required current distributions. To facilitate their use the formulas are here presented unencumbered by derivations but in a form which makes the correspondence between the elliptic and circular cases, as well as the specialization to median plane fields, appear as simply as possible."
"The conventional quadrupole and dipole magnets, used to focus and bend the beams of charged particles produced by accelerators, consume very large amounts of power. Superconducting magnets are an attractive method of reducing this power requirement while offering the advantage of higher fields and field gradients. A number of model superconducting beam handling magnets have been built and tested and a full-size quadrupole doublet is under construction. The use of high current density Nb3Sn conductors allows compact design, reducing the cryogenic requirements and capital cost of the magnets."
"Construction details and tests of a 10-cm-ID and 26.35-cm-long copper-tape-wound solenoid are described. Magnet measurements at 35 kW indicate an axial-field line integral of 193 kG-cm and a transverse-field line integral, measured on the geometric axis, of less than 0.1% of the axialfield integral."
"Use of aluminum windings for the ac injector-synchrotron and dc storage ring magnet systems has been studied. 1, 2 The injector synchrotron is an 18-Hz fast-cycling 8-GeV accelerator that feeds protons to the 200-GeV main ring. The physical properties of aluminum are discussed, as are the extrusion of the conductor and the winding of the coils. Also included is a discussion of cooling-system problems and their solution. Important design conditions for aluminum coils are given. An economic analysis of aluminum- and copper-coiled magnet systems is presented. As an example, the injector-synchrotron magnet system is compared to a dc storage-ring magnet system with the same magnetic characteristics. The optimum coil current density is discussed, as are the effect of gap field, economic life, and core shape on cost and optimum current density. Physical and economic advantages of aluminum coils for magnet systems are presented as are conditions under which the use of aluminum coils should be avoided."
"Design, fabrication, and preliminary testing of a test prototype gradient magnet for the Omnitron incorporating several novel design features is reported. The laminated magnet core achieves structural integrity with prestressed tension rods which hold the 0.014-in.-thick M-19 steel laminations with an average interlamination pressure of 200 psi. Some advantages of such a system are: elimination of strong backs for support of individual laminations, a higher steel packing factor than for glued laminations, and easy disassembly of the magnet to make changes during test and development. Simplicity in coil design is achieved using a continuous 9/32- by 3-in. hollow-strap** aluminum conductor wound in a single layer. The high section modulus of the strap eliminates the need for coil clamps at the ends of the magnet. Furthermore, this coil design avoids multiple cooling connections between \"pancakes\" and saddle-shaped coil ends, because notches can be machined into the coils after they are wound."
"A method of efficiently cooling tape-wound, edge-cooled magnet coils, or ferrite discs results from the action of an inwardly-directed spiral free vortex flow pattern of the coolant. Many of the unfavorable hydraulic losses and heat-transfer limitations inherent in conventional internally-cooled magnet coils can be eliminated or minimized. The designer can independently control fluid velocities, turbulence, heat-transfer rate, fluid flow rate, bulk temperature rise, and coil space factor within wide limits by the use of hydrodynamic techniques. Hydraulic pumping energy can be minimized, conductor temperature rise can be reduced, and in many cases, the electrical current density in the conductors can be raised by the use of external vortex coolant flow. The radial increase of fluid velocity toward the center matches the need for improved cooling of the inner portions of RF ferrite discs resulting from the increased heating at the inner rim. This reduces the hazard of thermal fracture in the brittle ferrite due to differential heating."
"A novel approach is presented which results in mechanically simple quadrupoles producing high field gradients with modest power consumption and with very small aberrations. These lenses can be assembled either in four-fold geometrically symmetrical versions or in narrow \"septum\" versions without side yokes. The asymmetrical version conserves the very valuable space available for small angle secondary beams. There is no deterioration of optical properties since the four-fold magnetic symmetry is maintained in the aperture region. In addition, the fringing field is quite small. A unique magnet profile was adopted. Most general purpose iron quadrupoles are derived from the concept of four identical hyperbolic pole profiles which are quadrupole equipotentials. However, for a practical design this geometry must be severely distorted to provide space for reasonable current density coils. The present conceptual approach is to abandon the hyperbolic idea completely and treat the problem from the viewpoint of its four-fold symmetry which permits only r2 sin 2θ, r6 sin 6θ, r10 sin 10θ, etc., potential terms. Since these terms increase as the fourth power in their spatial variations, their magnitudes can be separately controlled with properly chosen physical perturbations. Using this method a quadrupole of high optical purity was produced employing a simple iron profile composed only of plane surfaces."
"The authors conclude from an investigation that for a very high energy proton synchrotron a separated function magnet lattice is superior to the conventional combined function lattice. In addition, the direct and indirect effects of the resultant smaller radius make it an economically attractive alternative. With long straight sections employed, there is no fundamental objection to a closed magnet structure. Indeed the shielding automatically provided appears to outweigh any disadvantages. The expected almost total dependence on high intensity external beams of primary protons requires a very high degree of beam optical excellence. A lattice utilizing quadrupoles and \"window frame\" dipoles can be constructed with very small aberrations in the azimuthal integrals of their fields. The optical properties can be very accurately controlled for a range of dipole fields extending from lower values than practical with combined function magnets up to considerably higher values. Quadrupole aberrations allowed by symmetry are of high multipole order and can be made extremely small. Only even order dipole aberrations are allowed. However, these are very small from very low fields up to values approaching 20 kG. For higher excitations appreciable sextupole appears, followed by 10-pole. However, since widely distributed sextupole lenses are desirable for parameter control, there is no strong argument against exciting the dipoles to fields with moderate sextupole aberration. In contrast to the end effects of combined function magnets, there is no significant variation of beam resonant frequency with radius, other than the \"chromatic\" variation with momentum."
"For regulation and ripple studies of dc magnets, the essential parameters which must be known as a function of dc magnetization and/or frequency are the unit step time constant and impedance. An exact value for the unit steptime constant of a laminated or solid core magnet can only be obtained by measurement. It can, however, be estimated from the dc time constant which is easily computed from the magnet geometry, number of coil turns, and the coil resistance. Measured unit step time constants and computed dc time constants are given for a number of magnets. Formulas to compute the impedance of laminated core magnets are developed. An empirical formula for calculating the impedance of solid core magnets is deduced from test data."
"Analytical and experimental methods to describe precisely, in three dimensions, the magnetic fields of beam transport elements will be discussed. The influence of the fringing field on beam optical properties and magnet design will be presented. With appropriate boundary conditions the field components are expressed in terms of the magnetic potential to arbitrarily high orders with empirical coefficients and are grouped in a form to avoid the divergence of higher order terms. As an accurate description of the true field is obtained, a very precise trajectory can be computed for a known momentum. In addition, the more useful inverse problem of finding the momentum of a particle with known input and output trajectory coordinates is attacked. The trajectory solution is expressed as the sum of an analytical part plus perturbation terms. The first order solution for the momentum is easily obtained and the convergence of the subsequent perturbation calculations is very rapid even for extreme rays. The value of this method, with its precise treatment of fringing fields, is emphasized by treating in detail a wide angle spectrometer (120-in. wide, 36-in. long, 24-in. gap). The perturbation technique shows promise that an accurate instantaneous read-out of the momentum can be obtained by employing a modest number of perturbation corrections stored in the memory of the computer."
"One of six sector-magnets for the 4-MeV Separated Orbit Cyclotron Experiment (SOCE) has been assembled and tested. The magnets for the SOCE are quite different and much simplified from previous SOC magnet concepts; all pole tips are of the same radius of curvature and each set is excited by a separate coil-pair. The pole-tip fields vary smoothly from 3.5 kilogauss at injection (1 MeV) to 6.6 kilogauss at full energy. The field index, n, varies from 0.58 to 0.52. A unique pole-tip design with an integral vacuum chamber has been developed. The ampere-turn requirements for the main pole-tip coils and trimming coils have been determined. A simple but highly precise magnetic field scanning device has been developed for use with the SOCE magnets."
"A full-scale prototype magnet sector of a 12-sector, 10-50 MeV separated orbit cyclotron has been built and tested. Eleven pairs of alternating-gradient pole tips are mounted on a yoke structure which provides a common magnetic return path. The pole tips are all excited by a single pair of coils which surround the pole tip mounting bases at the upper and lower yoke faces. The pole tips combine both the negative- and positive-gradient sections in a single unit; the magnetic field gradients are about 800 gauss/in. The pole tips are 4.5 in. wide and have a mean gap of 1.75 in. They were machined by the numeric controlled milling process. Special edge contours were developed to achieve a useful radial aperture of 3 inches. Experience with the prototype magnet demonstrates that magnets for separated orbit cyclotrons present no special difficulty in design, construction, or alignment."
"An energy discharge system has been constructed which permits repetitive pulses spaced 30 ms apart or greater to the Zero Gradient Synchrotron (ZGS) beam bumper magnet. To allow beam bumping to either side of the equilibrium orbit, each pulse is independent in polarity and magnitude. Two pulses per machine cycle are provided, but the system is being expanded to five. The system consists of the beam bumper magnet time-sharing two independent energy storage subsystems each containing two series ignitrons, one for each polarity and two crowbar ignitrons, one for each polarity. A logic system automatically triggers the crowbar associated with a given subsystem. An early crowbar trigger can be used which shunts the coil well before peak current occurs reducing the peak current on a given pulse. Each subsystem contains a 2 A, 14 kV power supply and 450 μF of capacitance. The beam bumper magnet has a 4-turn coil which may be connected either in parallel or series. The inductance for one turn is 1.6 μH. The beam may be targeted or extracted in less than 20 μs or as long as several hundred μs, depending on the choice of C and L. If exceptionally long times are needed, the subsystems may be interconnected causing all capacitors to be in parallel."
"Several fast-transfer systems using kicker magnets are needed for the proposed 200-GeV Accelerator. A possible system for transfer from the injector synchrotron to the main ring using stationary, full-aperture kicker magnets presents the most stringent requirements. The extraction kicker for the injector synchrotron will be about 4 m in length, have a 4-by-14-cm aperture, and require a field or 300 G. For 100% efficient transfer the rise time of the magnetic field must be shorter than 17 ns, which is the time between beam bunches, and which is nearly an order of magnitude less than the rise times achieved in existing kicker magnets. Because of the required rise time and the limited length, each magnet is divided into 48 modules operated as 24 push-pull pairs. Each module is analyzed as a short-circuited ferrite-and dielectric-loaded transmission line. The short-circuited mode of operation ensures that voltage on the magnet is applied for only about 12 ns, thus reducing HV problems, and at the same time produces a kick twice as great as can be obtained from terminated magnets. Each module is energized by a tapered coaxial pulse line and switched on with a triggered spark gap."
"Precise magnetic fields are necessary to achieve high-quality particle beam-transport in the SLAC beam switchyard. A discussion of the methods of magnetic measurements associated with testing and establishing these fields is presented. These measurements and some of the important results obtained are described. In order to satisfy the criteria placed on the transport systems each magnet was measured and the critical magnets of the transport system were selected for placement in the beam switchyard on the basis of several of their measured characteristics. A description of the selection procedure is presented, and the effects of the individual magnet differences are discussed. Details of measurement techniques and the resulting procedures which are used for setting up the beam switchyard for a particular momentum are given."
"A rotating coil magnetometer which utilizes an air turbine to turn the coil has been developed. Since the turbine rotor forms the mount for the coil, there are no shafts or gears. Thus, this magnetometer may be used to measure fields in locations inaccessible to more conventional rotating coil devices. The precision of the suspension of the turbine and the lack of mechanical vibration make it possible to measure transverse field components of the order of one milligauss in a field of one kilogauss. The sensitivity of the magnetometer is made independent of the rotational speed of the coil through the use of an electronic integrator. The coil and integrator circuit is used in conjunction with another system which allows the determination of the direction of the magnetic field being measured relative to a predetermined direction."
"This paper describes several devices and systems used at the Laboratory of Nuclear Problems of the Joint Institute for Nuclear Research for measuring inhomogeneous magnetic fields from 1 mT to 2.5 T (10 to 25,000 gauss to an accuracy of 0.1 to 0.01%."
"One of the main advantages of using magnetic field measuring equipment supported external to the cyclotron magnet is the ability to map the field before and after installation of the extraction elements. Field measurements with extraction elements in place are usually precluded by the size of internally mounted field mapping equipment (e.g., a wheel). The magnetic field of the NRL-isochronous cyclotron was measured to full radius before installation of extraction elements. After installation the influence on the magnetic field of each extraction element energized separately was measured. These measurements were used to determine the perturbation of the extraction channel on the isochronous field. Ion orbit calculations were then used to determine necessary field corrections to accelerate ions to the extraction radius. These field corrections are translated to currents needed in each of the various coils via a least squares fitting program."
"Two 250 V-100 kW amplidynes are controlled to give a precise output current. The load consists of the series connected bending and quadrupole magnets for the 200-MeV storage ring. This load has an inductance of 0.46 H and a dc resistance of 0.8Ω. The magnet current is composed of dc and a triangular-shaped component at a frequency of 3 Hz. This frequency is an order of magnitude higher than the break frequency of the magnet load. The control elements act as an integrator, a summing amplifier, and a differentiator on the error signal and as a differentiator on the reference input. A gain change takes place during the cycle to compensate for saturation of the amplidyne. An electrical analog was used to determine the best range of values for the various control elements. The amplidyne drive is a high slip induction motor that also serves the purpose of smoothing out the electrical load on the power line."
"One of the difficult engineering problems of high power pulsed power supplies is to produce a large output voltage range with a low ripple voltage. Phased back rectifier power supplies have sufficient voltage range but suffer from a large ripple content. This paper deals with two methods for reducing the output ripple without the use of a filter. It also includes a nonsynchronous firing system for controlling the resulting rectifier."
"A description and relaying flow diagram presents the protection and monitoring system presently used in the 115 MW peak pulsed ring magnet power supply (RMPS)."
"Curves have been developed which show the currents in the shorted turns, the voltages across a faulted coil, and the heat losses developed, all as a function of the fault resistance. These show that with decreasing fault resistance, all faults will damage the conductor by melting the copper at the point of fault. Existing relays cannot prevent the damage. Impedance measurements, which can detect turn faults at an incipient stage, have been suggested."
"The paper describes the failure of one of the two magnet power supply alternators which resulted in the rewind of one stator and the modification and rebuild of the rotors of both alternators. This failure prevented Nimrod operating at 7 GeV from late February, 1965 to the end of November, 1965. Certain design changes made when the rotors were rebuilt are described. A resume is given of the investigations carried out immediately after the failure, while rebuilding was in progress, and after the machines were returned to service. Present plans are also briefly mentioned."
"The coherent electromagnetic self-forces of a beam of particles in an accelerator can render unstable the motion of individual particles, or give rise to unstable coherent motion of the beam. The latter is the subject of this work. Coherent longitudinal bunching of an azimuthally uniform beam can result from the negative mass instability or interaction of the beam with the accelerating cavities. The negative mass instability can be suppressed by a sufficient spread in circulation frequency or by surrounding the beam with appropriate walls. The beam-cavity interaction can be overcome by careful design of the rf system. The interaction of the self-fields with the surrounding walls can lead to unstable coherent transverse motion through the finite resistance of the wall material. This instability may be suppressed by a sufficient spread in betatron frequencies. The relatively slow growth rate also allows stabilization by means of electronic feedback, and the stabilizing effect of passive structures has also been investigated. Experimental and theoretical investigation has led to an understanding of these effects to the extent that accelerators can be designed to overcome the instabilities."
"This paper attempts to summarize the present state of understanding of electron linac instabilities which result in beam loss along the accelerator. The major emphasis is placed on the type of instability which is caused by cumulative interaction of the beam with a multisection accelerator, as distinguished from the effect observed in short high-current accelerators where the instability is due to local regenerative interaction. The manifestations of the effect are first described and physical models are proposed. The properties of the HEM11 mode which is responsible for the instability are discussed in detail. Following, a short summary of the Panofsky theory is presented to illustrate various scaling laws which have been verified experimentally on the SLAC accelerator. Measured results are also compared with a detailed computer study made by R. Helm and agreement is generally found to be very good. After the discussion of beam break-up gain, a few conjectures are presented on the possible starting mechanisms of the effect. In conclusion, the program presently underway at SLAC to increase the current threshold of the instability is outlined and early results of this program are presented."
"Nonlinear synchrotron oscillations are present in virtually all accelerators (for economic reasons). For RF parameters likely to be used in 600-1000 GeV accelerators, or in high frequency (high harmonic) RF systems at lower energies, these nonlinearities give rise to numerous resonances, including basic noncoupled resonances which the present study investigates both by analytical and computational methods. A relatively simple theory1 has been sufficient to explain qualitatively many effects, such as \"propellers\" and \"beads\" in phase space, for both third- and half-integral resonances. Some extensions of the work of reference 1 are reported. However, understanding some details of the ν = ¼ resonance was not possible without the use of Moser transformations.2 In particular, a null occurs in the resonance driving term as the synchronous particle phase μs is varied, an effect predicted by the Moser theory. Our results indicate that suitably designed particle accelerators may operate in the vicinity of some phase oscillation resonances but that the resonances in question influence the desirable choice of μs."
"An analytical investigation has been made of the motion of a charged particle in an axially symmetric steady magnetic field. For a given momentum, expressions for the shape of the equilibrium orbit and betatron oscillation frequencies have been derived in terms of the field index k, the spiral parameter K, and the set of field coefficients gnm. These algebraic results have been programmed for the IBM704 computer. For a 500 MeV fixed field alternating gradient (FFAG) synchrotron designed as an injector,1 computations yield radial and vertical tunes averaged with respect to momentum of Δr = 3.23, ≤z = 2.37 with variations of |νr| Ζ 0.0001, |Δνz| Ζ 0.0004 depending on the exact momentum. For comparison, Runge-Kutta evaluations which require a factor of six longer computing times yield average tunes of νr = 3.22 and νz = 2.49."
"The set of equations for proton linac beam dynamics given by P. Lapostolle at the Frascati Conference (1965) is derived again by a more rigorous method and extended to include relativistic effects. This is accomplished by a systematic classical perturbation theory using expansions with respect to small perturbation parameters, one describing the influence of the field on the freeparticle motion, the other relativistic effects. This permits estimates of the accuracy."
"By combining the results of longitudinal instability theory and synchrotron oscillation theory, it is possible to derive two simple and useful expressions for longitudinal instability particle threshold. The first, which holds at injection, is given directly in terms of design parameters; in practical cases it turns out to depend only slightly on injection energy and to be independent of field index and vacuum chamber size, provided only that the vacuum chamber is large enough to contain particle oscillations. The second, which is based on adiabatic bunch behavior, displays the variation of threshold with energy; it decreases monotonically from injection to transition (if a real transition exists) and then increases monotonically. Different regions of this universal curve are relevant, depending upon whether the machine considered is a booster, a weak-focusing machine, or a standard AG synchrotron in which transition is crossed. Practically, it appears that recently proposed boosters will be free from longitudinal instabilities if a little care is exercised in design. It is quite evident that proposed \"improved\" AG machines will have no problems at injection; the treatment of the transition region is still crude, and further analysis will be required for a definite answer - it appears that there might be trouble at least in Phase II (2 × 1013 protons) unless the capture at injection is extremely efficient."
"Properties of matched beams (definition: beams whose dimensions oscillate with the periodicity of the machine) and their stability, are discussed. At intensities beyond resonances several matched solutions exist. It is shown that it may be possible to achieve an increase in the number of accelerated particles by injecting at those intensities and by crossing the resonances subsequently during acceleration."
"In the CERN linear accelerator, intensities above 125 mA have been accelerated. For very big, present and future AG synchrotrons, however, there is a need for injectors giving 200 mA or more. At this intensity level, very strong longitudinal space charge effects occur which limit the phase stability in linacs and which also have been shown to prevent efficient bunching with conventional bunchers. Proposals are given to raise the limit of these effects to about half an ampere where beam loading compensation may become difficult. For a better prediction of the performances, several studies are still to be made and various methods are outlined; a few difficult points may, however, require further effort, especially if still higher intensities and extreme performances are needed."
"A machine program for calculating the effect of space charge on the longitudinal motion in a proton linac was presented at the 1966 Los Alamos Linear Accelerator Conference. This program assumes a uniformly charged ellipsoidal bunch of constant transverse semi-axes throughout the calculation. Since then, numerical results for transmitted current and longitudinal beam quality have been obtained with this program. These results showed that with increasing current, the assumption of a uniformly charged ellipsoidal bunch becomes less and less justified. It was, therefore, decided to also try other space charge force models which would allow for any longitudinal charge distribution. Three additional models, assuming cylindrical symmetry and a fixed transverse beam radius, were programmed. In all of these, the charge density is assumed to vary only longitudinally and the bunch can, therefore, be represented by a succession of thin disks, each uniformly charged. In the point-disk (PD) program, the contributions of the individual disks to the force at a point on the axis are summed the point-diskimage (PDI) (model used by Morton ) is obtained in the same way but includes the effects of image charges induced on drift tubes and the influence of neighboring bunches; the disk-disk (DD) calculation starts from the force between two coaxial charged disks and sums the contribution from all other disks to the force on any one of them. All computations were done on the CDC 6600 computer at the Brookhaven National Laboratory."
"A technique for evaluating the radial and longitudinal forces present within a moving volume of charge is presented. For an assigned array, based on a given set of initial conditions, the bunch is replaced by a volume mesh comprising a series of cylinders and surrounding annulii. The coordinates of these elements are monitored to provide changing charge distribution and bunch shape information during the trajectory. Owing to the rigorous design requirements of the MIT high dutyfactor linear accelerator, studies have concentrated on the problems of attaining monochromatic bunches of small dimensions suitable for injection into the accelerator waveguide system. 1 Concomitantly, voltage depression effects and reduction of space charge fields due to the presence of conducting walls are included in this presentation."
"A general computer program has been used to calculate the stability diagram for (+)(-)(+)(-) quadrupole arrangements when the space charge is uniformly distributed in an elliptic cylinder or an ellipsoid. Linearized equations for longitudinal and transverse envelopes of the bunch have been solved simultaneously in order to find the velocity dependence of the phase damping."
"Finite conductivity of the vacuum chamber wall can cause unstable coherent transverse oscillations of the center of charge and also oscillations of the transverse cross section of a beam of charged particles. The former case, which can be characterized by a dipole oscillation, has been studied extensively by others. 1, 2 In this work, a study has been conducted of the cross sectional oscillations of a nearly circular beam centered in a circular pipe, and a self-consistent solution has been obtained for both monopole and quadrupole oscillations. Dispersion relations for the oscillation frequencies have been found, and conditions for stability have been deduced. For the quadrupole instability the growth rate and threshold are very close to those obtained for the dipole instability, 1, 2 differing only by a geometrical factor of order unity; whereas, for the monopole instability, the growth rates are so small that the oscillations in present electron accelerators and storage rings will be suppressed by radiation damping."
"Longitudinal space charge effects in RF buckets have been studied by means of an IBM 704 computer program. This program simulates the motion of the particles in a beam under the influences of space charge forces and RF fields. Initially, the beam is given a small perturbation to excite a particular mode. Stable and unstable beams with energy spreads much greater than, approximately equal to, and much less than the energy spread of an RF bucket in the absence of space charge forces have been studied. Duplicate runs are made with and without space charge forces and the results are compared. After a transitional period of time, with space charge forces acting, the stable phase region assumes a characteristic diamond shape which persists for more than five synchrotron periods. This stable phase region contains more particles than the corresponding RF bucket in the absence of space charge forces. When the initial distribution of particles in phase space is independent of phase angle and has an energy spread much less than the energy spread necessary to stabilize the beam against the \"negative mass\" instability, large clumps of particles form immediately. These clumps of particles execute phase oscillations and may coagulate with the particles in the stable phase region. If particles far from the stable phase region do not interact with particles in the stable phase region, the bucket assumes an elliptical shape, very narrow in phase angle, large in energy spread, with a lifetime of more than five synchrotron periods."
"This paper reports briefly several types of orbit calculations performed to study the feasibility and design features of a superconducting 600-MeV split microtron being planned for the University of Illinois. Programs have been written for the Illinois IBM7094 computer to study phase stability in the presence of magnetic field inhomogeneities, vertical defocusing produced by the magnet fringing fields, and axial and radial motion of electrons in the accelerating linac. Some of the calculations are described in a report which is available on request."
"The interpretation of probe measurements of beam behaviour in the cyclotron is discussed with reference to results obtained with the Harwell Variable Energy Cyclotron."
"The \"fast kicker\" of the Brookhaven National Laboratory's AGS, normally used for orbit perturbation at high energy as part of the fast ejected beam system is used to eject the circulating proton beam in the energy region of 50-400 MeV. Beam behavior in the early part of the acceleration cycle is studied by measuring the ejected beam vertical phase space emittance and density distribution. Effective phase space dilution and beam intensity dependent effects have been observed. The observed distributions are consistent with a four or six dimensional gaussian distribution."
"Observations of the resistive wall instability in Nimrod are described. An account is given of the system used to damp the (1 - Q) mode of the instability."
"The design of a system for accumulating counter-rotating beams of positrons and electrons, up to 0.1 A, in the CEA ring is discussed. Beams of this intensity are required if the CEA is to be used successfully as a colliding beam facility. Repeated, single turn, off-axis injection will be used at a repetition rate of 60 c/s. After each injection at 135 Mev, all particles will be accelerated to an energy in the 2 to 3 GeV range and then decelerated back to the injection energy. During the cycle, sufficient radiation damping of betatron and synchrotron oscillations is achieved to allow more particles to be injected without losing a large fraction of the particles injected in preceding cycles. Incoming particles are inflected by a septum magnet located off the equilibrium orbit while the path of the circulating beam is displaced towards the septum throughout the interval required for single turn injection. The current that can be accumulated depends on the number of particles injected per cycle and the lifetime of the circulating beam. Injection of a positron beam is more difficult than injection of an electron beam because of the smaller current and larger emittance associated with the source. When the horizontal phase space is used for injection, the half-life of the circulating beam is estimated to be 90 s if the average gas pressure is 5.108 torr. The positron source is expected to deliver 0.4 mA with an energy spread of 2.5 MeV aid an emittance of (2."
"A regenerative system for extracting 300 MeV protons from the NASA 600 MeV synchrocyclotron at Langley Research Center was installed and tested. This system,1 which brings the protons out of the accelerator through a 20-foot long channel from a point almost half of the normal exit radius, was designed to have some manual adjustments of the iron components to produce the magnetic field shape necessary for successful extraction. This paper describes the magnetic measurements, orbit calculations and magnetic calculations that were used for adjusting this extraction system, which successfully extracted reduced energy protons with about 20% of the full energy current. Initial adjustments in the location and quantity of iron were made when magnetic measurements were performed using orbit calculations and phase-space plots based on the measured magnetic fields which were systematically altered until the phase-space plots indicated that the peeler-regenerator sections would produce extraction of protons with acceptable energy. During the final adjustments, using radiographic techniques to locate the proton beam in the extraction channel, alterations were made to various sections of the channel permitting it to accept the proton energy and entrance angle produced by the peeler-regenerator sections."
"The proton beam extraction system which is now operational at the Princeton-Pennsylvania Accelerator is a resonant system operating on the ν=2/3 radial betatron resonance. This method of extracting from a weak focusing synchrotron was first proposed and shown to work by Turrin et. al. at Frascati, Italy.1,2,3 The system requires that the synchrotron magnet be tuned to νr=2/3 with a quadrupole magnetic field component and that an azimuthally varying second harmonic hexapole field be applied to drive the oscillations.4 When the oscillations have reached sufficient amplitude the particles enter the aperture of a septum magnet which bends them clear of the synchrotron. The beam is then steered and focused to the first target point in the External Beam building."
"Extraction methods, diagnostic equipment, and external beam lines are described. By the use of special targets and magnet field shapes, we have extracted beam at energies between 4.0 GeV/c and 13.4 GeV/c. Slow and fast extractions have been accomplished with efficiencies greater than 30 percent and 50 percent, respectively. A parasitic beam has been extracted with 20 percent efficiency. Extracted beams of up to 7 × 1011 protons/pulse with a 2.2 s repetition rate have been obtained for a neutrino experiment. To date, spill durations from 40 μs to 500 ms have been achieved. A compact secondary emission detector having a very short radiation length has been designed and operated. The multiple scattering introduced into the beam by this chamber is less than 1/2 milliradian. TV systems with scintillators and sodium iodide matrices have been used to line up the beam. In the external beam line, three target stations have been set up. The first is for a neutrino experiment, the second station for three experiments, and at the third station there are two experimental setups."
"The results of earlier analytical calculations on the slow extraction of particles from an alternating gradient accelerator are applied to the special case of a fixed field alternating gradient accelerator. The extraction efficiency and rate of growth of the betatron oscillations are described."
"The General Atomic Linear Accelerator Facility consists of two L-band linear accelerators which can be operated independently or coupled together to form one machine. The first accelerator is a single section powered by a 20-MW klystron and is capable of operating over an energy range of one MeV to 17 MeV. Peak currents of 16 A at 12 MeV and 40 ns pulse length have been obtained with the first Linac. The second Linac, which is built in line with the first machine, consists of three sections powered by one 10-MW and two 20-MW klystrons. The second Linac is capable of producing a 35-MeV electron beam with an intensity of 2 A at pulse length less than 0.1 μs. By rotating the injector of the second Linac it accepts the beam from the first machine, thereby creating a higher energy machine capable of delivering energies of up to 80 MeV. Other features of the facility include six independent irradiated cells, 15 target positions, and a high power positron converter; as well as monoenergetic gamma ray sources, high intensity neutron targets, and a single particle per pulse capability. In addition, a special cell contains the APFA-III accelerator-pulsed fast burst reactor, which is operated at a multiplication of 1000 to obtain neutron fluences of 1012 - 1013 n/cm2 in 5 μs."
"The apparent need for an inexpensive, reliable, and easy-to-operate cyclotron for isotope production, trace element analysis, and nuclear medicine has led to the design and construction of a 30-inch AVF cyclotron. This cyclotron has accelerated very stable beams of protons to 15 MeV, deuterons to 8 MeV, He3++ to 20 MeV, and alpha particles to 16 MeV. External beam currents in excess of 50 μA have been obtained for protons and deuterons. The required magnetic field for acceleration of all four particles is attained in a three-sector configuration without the use of profile coils. Two 120° dees provide an energy gain of 100 keV per turn. The ion source, using ion-heated cathodes instead of the usual hot-filament, has allowed internal beams of more than one mA of protons and deuterons to be accelerated to full energy. A 30 μA external beam of 15 MeV protons has also been obtained by accelerating and stripping H- ions."
"A 27-inch AVF cyclotron of fourfold symmetry designed specifically for use in helium-3 activation analysis is now in operation at the Lawrence Radiation Laboratory in Berkeley. The fixed energy and modest beam quality requirements have resulted in an instrument of minimum size, weight, power consumption, and fabrication costs. New techniques were developed to construct edge-cooled tape-wound magnet coils which are housed inside the vacuum chamber. Other unusual design features include: unit construction dee liners hydraulically pressed to the pole tip contours; two 55° dees-in-valleys operating in pushpull; a removable top yoke assembly which allows complete access to the pole area; a narrow gap with an average spacing of 1.5 inches making possible maximum utilization of the pole diameter for stable orbits. In conjunction with the tape coils, the use of this small gap also results in a magnet of very high efficiency. The cyclotron operates with an average field of 16.6 kG and a grounded-grid triode provides 40 kV dee-to-ground (150 keV/turn). Power is supplied by 220 V, 3-phase service. The magnet requires 17 kW, the HF system uses 17 kW, and the remaining instruments, pumps, and controls use an additional 6 kW. The complete system, including vacuum pumps and power supplies, weighs 10.7 tons and occupies a floor space of 37 × 64 inches."
"The ZGS intensity has recently been increased. The main factors involved were removing the limitations imposed by the coherent vertical instability and partial correction of tune variations occurring during acceleration. With the higher intensities we observe a growth in the radial size of the beam. This phenomena is discussed briefly. Slow extraction from the ZGS on a \"front porch\" field over a wide range of momenta has been successful and the fast extraction efficiency has been increased to 50%."
"With the above-described adjustments a CW microtron should be realizable producing an output energy of 15 MeV in 39 turns. The salient design characteristics of this machine are listed in Table II and the early orbits are plotted in Figure 3. An investigation of the dependence of orbit stability on the angle of injection shows that this is critical. For the chosen conditions electrons injected more than 1° from the assigned input beam direction (10° to the cavity axis) mill not be accepted into stable orbits. Thus an electron gun is necessary which will provide a large current within a very small angular spread. In addition, deviations from the chosen entering phase angle of more than half a degree will result in the subsequent orbits being unstable. The accelerator thus starts off by reducing the intensity of the beam injected into the cavity from the cathode by a factor of 360. Nevertheless, with an efficient electron gun and good homogeneity in the magnetic field, final beam currents approaching 100 μa should be obtainable."
"Racetrack geometries of the guide field are capable of freeing the microtron type of electron accelerator from its inherent limitations. Two completed racetrack microtrons of 2.5 and 6.3 MeV energy are described. A possible application of the design features of these accelerators to microtrons of up to 50 MeV is discussed. Preliminary results of a design study for a 200 MeV racetrack microtron are presented."
"A small experimental Separated-Orbit Cyclotron is being built to provide experience in the design and operation of this new type of accelerator. It will permit examination of the sensitivity of the SOC design to methods of construction and to errors in alignment. Some features are variable so that the flexibility of this class of machines for the acceleration of various particles and the applicability to high beam intensities can be evaluated."
"Many different types of injection systems are possible for the 200-BeV accelerator. A single-stage, single ring, 8-BeV \"fast booster\" is the best choice."
"The general characteristics of the RF system high-power components and suitable accelerating structures have been studied for several variations of the interlaced multi-ring synchrotron. This type of machine has been considered as a possible component of the injection system for the 200-BeV accelerator."
"A review of the several approaches to the generation of intense electron streams in the megavolt energy regime is presented. The techniques used in the diagnosis of the 30,000 ampere, 3 Mev beam from a gas insulated coaxial system with a characteristic pulse length of 25 nanoseconds are discussed. The general features of such a stream drifting under self-focused conditions are presented and the results compared with the theory of such an idealized beam. The results of work conducted with cathode arrays of varying geometry are discussed. In particular, the dynamics of 20,000 ampere streams at 2 Mev, from arrays with 1 ≤ n ≤ 4, are presented. Based on these data, a prognosis is made for the limitations of future high peak power electron accelerators at energies in the 10 Mev range."
"Pulsed radiation sources of higher intensity and shorter duration are desired to broaden the scope of experimental studies of radiation-induced phenomena. For this purpose, a family of generators has been developed which can produce intense pulsed beams of electrons. The highly reproducible beam is extracted from the accelerating tube through a thin window and can be injected readily into other experimental apparatus. Available pulse durations range from 3 to 50 nanoseconds. The maximum electron energy can be adjusted continuously from 150 to 600 keV, or from 500 keV to 2 MeV, depending on the specific generator. Available peak beam currents range from 1,000 to 10,000 amperes, and the electron output can be varied from 1013 to 2 × 1015 electrons per pulse. When desired, the output beam can be concentrated magnetically to energy densities in excess of 100 cal/cm2, creating shock waves and permitting study of materials under intense transient stress. The basic design concepts, and diagnostic techniques developed or adapted for reliable measurement of the beam characteristics, will be discussed."
"As the radiation environment in the proximity of high energy beams becomes an ever increasing problem, the need for radiation resistant vacuum chambers and seals of inorganic materials has become apparent. The long range plans for the ZGS have been in this direction. A three-year development program has resulted in a design which will withstand radiation levels several orders of magnitude greater than at present. Such a chamber will be installed early in 1968_five years after original machine startup."
"Alumina ceramic vacuum chambers are proposed in the area of the magnets for the 8-GeV injector synchrotron of the 200-GeV accelerator. The chambers cannot be made in one piece, and the only acceptable joint involves metal, which has a perturbing effect on the magnetic field. For this reason it was proposed that the longest possible ceramic be used to keep the joints to a minimum, but long ceramics require wider tolerances, and this becomes costly in magnet gap. Sample ceramics produced by industry were examined, and from the results the overall cost of ceramics and magnet gap were related to ceramic length. Installing and locating the chambers in the magnet gap is difficult due to the restrictions of shape and size of the gap."
"Pumping hydrogen with Penning discharge getter-ion pumps at the flow rates normally encountered with accelerators employing hydrogen ion sources presents problems that do not appear when these pumps are employed on systems where the only gas load is that arising from surface degassing and residual leakage. These problems are,-1) thermal instability resulting from reemission of absorbed hydrogen, and 2) deformation of the titanium cathodes with hydrogen absorption. This report outlines the pertinent considerations involved in modification of the design of the pumping elements of a standard 500 l/s pump (air rating), 1) to increase by a factor of about 10 the hydrogen gas load the pump can handle without danger of thermal instability, and 2) to virtually eliminate titanium deformation. Hydrogen gas loads of up to 5 atm cm3/min can now be accomodated with a 500 l/s pump. While service life expectancy was previously limited to 2000-3000 hours by anode-cathode short circuit, it is presently limited by the ultimate hydrogen absorption capacity of the titanium. It is anticipated that life expectancies of up to 25000 hours can be realized with the 500 l/s pump at a hydrogen flow rate of 1 atm cm3/min."
"In areas of the Zero Gradient Synchrotron (ZGS) accelerator where high energy proton beams or other nuclear particles are extracted from the interior of the synchrotron into experimental areas, thin mylar or aluminum windows are used to minimize energy losses. Rupture of these windows (as large as nine inches in diameter) could cause considerable damage. A 9-inch, fast-closing valve has been designed and a prototype has been built and tested. The valve can operate in vacuum or at atmosphere. Closure of the valve requires no circuits, signals, or mechanical actuators, but rather is activated by the energy of the inrushing gas itself. An electrically triggered clutch arrangement can be incorporated for mechanical closing, if so desired, with no interference when the fast mode of closure is necessary. The results of the fast mode of closure indicate closing times of 17 to 30 ms. \"Blowby,\" before closure of the valve is completed, is approximately 2. 5 ft3 of air (at one atmosphere). With such a valve, the entire ring vacuum system will not reach pressures greater than 300 microns (0. 3 mm Hg), should a 9-inch diameter window rupture."
"The engineering of an accelerator facility requires completion of a logical series of tasks. After confirming a need or justification, a feasibility study must be made. At this point the engineering work is usually separated into two parts - one for the accelerator proper and its associated research equipment and the other for its housing and services. For the accelerator, conceptual design leads to establishment of financial and time budgets. Systems design permits cost estimates and schedules to be made. Detail design permits bids for construction and installation to be obtained. Procurement and installation services finally lead to test and start-up. For the building, site selection and study lead to one or more conceptual designs. Preliminary design permits tentative budgets and schedules to be set. Final design leads to building contracts, course of construction services and final acceptance. The engineering costs incurred in carrying an accelerator concept through from feasibility study to an operating machine will run from a minimum of about ten percent to a maximum of about thirty-seven percent. For the accelerator site and buildings the corresponding limits are ten and thirteen percent. Thus, for an accelerator facility where the construction costs are divided approximately equally between the machine and its housing, the total engineering costs will be between ten and twenty percent of the construction costs."
"The operation of accelerators directly off the utility line is primarily restricted by the voltage fluctuation it causes on the utility system. To limit the voltage fluctuation, it will be necessary to design equipment and circuitry to reduce the MVARs during flat-topping and at the beginning of inversion. The advantages gained with the elimination of motor generator (M-G) sets will outweigh any disadvantages of more complicated equipment and possible operating restrictions. Based on a one second acceleration time, restricted MVAR during flat-topping and a range of 0.5%-1% voltage fluctuation, the stored energy in the ring magnet in MJ may be between 0.25% and 0.5% of the short circuit capacity (SCC) of the system at the point the accelerator is interconnected. Action of the generator voltage regulators will reduce the calculated voltage flicker or the required SCC. There are many systems that are large enough to permit direct operation of medium sized accelerators or standby operation of large accelerators at reduced capacity. Large accelerators will require large utility systems."
"The External Proton Beam Channel has seen intensive utilization since its installation at the Bevatron. A program now in progress will further enhance its versatility by increasing target areas, beam intensities, experimental floor area, shielding and utilities. We describe here the physical facilities, among which is a truly unique overhead crane design. The proton beam operation and characteristics are discussed in the Bevatron Experimenters Handbook."
"A modular approach to the design of accelerators is presented. A 30-inch AVF cyclotron has been built on this approach where all major assemblies are self-contained modules. Each unit, such as the magnet, RF system, vacuum system, ion source, and extraction system, was independently assembled, operated, and tested. Such an approach enabled the accelerator to be so flexible that systems of different designs, such as two-dee or single-dee acceleration, could be interchanged without modifying other parts of the machine. The features which permitted this approach on the now operational 30-inch cyclotron are presented, along with suggestions on how a modular design concept might well be used on larger accelerators."
"The Texas A&M Variable Energy Cyclotron (TAMVEC) is presently under construction at Texas A&M University in College Station, Texas. Bechtel Corporation is responsible for engineering, procurement, and construction of the machine. Machine engineering has been completed and construction is 80% complete. The TAMVEC, although based on a proven design and similar in basic physics and layout tothe 88-inch cyclotron at Lawrence Radiation Laboratory in Berkeley, California, nevertheless has many unique features. The mechanical design has been changed in a number of areas, resulting in improved vacuum system and simplified RF panel and trimmer capacitor drive systems. The electrical system has been broken down into independent functional subsystems. Each subsystem is self-contained and utilizes standard off-shelf components, separate inputs, and separate interlock systems. A centralized control system enables the operator to set and control the machine from the main control console. The following sections describe the machine in general."
"This paper describes the main features of the \"Music\" cyclotron machine as they appear after completion of the basic studies and initiation of the procurement of the components. Music is funded by the United States Atomic Energy Commission. Studies, engineering, procurement and construction are performed by Raytheon Company and CSF under control of Pr HOLMGREN of the University of Maryland, and important contributions from Dr Reiser, Dr Kim and Ken Jenkins, in all phases of computation or design. Music is a variable energy cyclotron of nominal energy 100 MleV protons using a four sectors magnet and two 90° dees connected to two panel tuned RF cavities. The conventional ion source will be mounted through a hole in the frame. Axial injection from an external source is also envisaged. Extraction will use electrostatic and electromagnetic deflectors. The cyclotron general arrangement is similar to the Grenoble machine. It has been designed to accelerate protons up to at least 100 MeV, deuterons up to 70 MeV, alpha particles up to 140 MeV and He3 up to 190 MeV. In order to ensure the 100 MeV proton value, the magnetic field was designed for 114 MeV and it turns out how that with the help of the installed flutter coils (hill an valley coils) somewhat higher proton energies could be made stable up to extraction radius."
"Unprecedented size, residual radiation, and the need for quite reliable operation of the 200-GeV accelerator present new challenges in servicing and maintenance. Yet costs must not be disproportionately large. An example servicing solution is developed, and variations are investigated for costs. It is shown that large-percentage cost changes are not to be expected, but that small changes can represent millions of dollars. Therefore extraordinary care should be exercised in refining appropriate solutions. The era of thorough preconstruction mock-up work has arrived in the accelerator business!"
"In choosing the type of injector system and in optimizing the parameters of any given type of system, we must consider relative cost advantages as well as relative technical advantages eventually entering into the arguments. In this paper we shall discuss a method of determining the cost of accelerator systems and give some examples that arose in the selection of an injector system for the proposed 200-GeV accelerator.1 The cost of the injector system cannot be considered apart from the total accelerator cost because the aperture of the main ring depends upon the energy and emittance of the beam transferred from the injector. Since the main ring is relatively much larger and more expensive than the injector system, a change which lowers injector cost can cause a much larger increase in main ring cost."
"Most particle accelerators heve extensive networks of control wiring. The usual stream of minor modifications requires hundreds of control wires to be added, deleted, or changed in function every few months. Conventional terminal and cable record books and wiring diagrams are difficult to keep up to date and often are cumbersome to use. We have devised improved computer-aided techniques for organizing information about a control wiring network into compact forms convenient both for trouble-shooting and for new design work. Additions and deletions require only a single data card per wire. The computer prints out a pattern of interconnections for each circuit, adds information on circuit functions, and finds and marks such probable errors as dead-end wires and redundant circuit paths. The computer-aided system has been in use for nearly two years at the University of Minnesota proton linear accelerator, which has a control wiring network containing about 10,000 wires. A complete set of record books can be worked out in about 18 minutes on a Control Data 1604 computer. Trouble-shooting, identification of wiring errors, and design of system additions all have benefited from the speed, convenience, and accuracy of the computer-aided system."
"The beam criteria for the SLAC beam switchyard and the effect of these criteria upon alignment tolerances and placement of components in the switchyard are discussed. The methods developed in the shop and in the field for meeting the stringent alignment tolerances are also covered."
"In recent years accelerators have been designed and built which produce beams of extremely high power, current, and charge-per-pulse. The handling of these beams presents a number of difficult problems. Among these problems are: removal of large heat flux, fatigue failure of components due to pulsed nature of the beam, radiation damage of materials, corrosion, residual radioactivity, and chemical effects such as radiolysis of water and production of noxious gases. Consideration of these problems strongly influences the overall design of beam handling systems, as well as the designs of specific components. Examples of the problems encountered and the solutions adopted in various electron accelerator labatories will be discussed."
"This paper gives a description of the overall design and construction of the SLAC beam switchyard and experimental areas. The electron optics and transport components of the switchyard are described. The high-intensity beams transported by this system present special problems requiring design for radiation resistance, remote-precise location, quick removal, and resistance to corrosive environments.(13) These problems and their solution are discussed. The SLAC research yard and its present experimental facilities are discussed. Finally, a design evaluation and summary of early tests and operation experience in this area are presented."
"This paper discusses the final as-built versions of high power beam dumps, slits and collimators, which are capable of absorbing 1 to 2 MW electron beams continuously. Some of the important design features are illustrated with pictures. Experimental results of testing a beam dump window and a small module prototype are added. The remote control and read-out system of variable aperture slits and collimators is emphasized and performance data are given. Then the criteria for safely achieving high beam power dissipation (heat transfer rates, nucleate and film boiling conditions, thermal stress, thermal shock and fatigue) are reviewed. Solutions to problems encountered in operating equipment in a corrosive, high radiation area where organic lubricants fail are presented. Finally, radiolysis of water and evolution of free hydrogen are dealt with. Experimental results from high power electron beams are reported. Disposal of hydrogen and radioactive gases evolving in surge tanks is discussed and solutions are proposed."
"For the purpose of guiding a 400-ampere, 4-MeV electron beam through the Astron accelerator, a combination of several kinds of focusing and steering coils are used in conjunction with current-regulated power supplies. The present guiding system - accelerator layout, along with design and control features of the guiding elements, is given in the first section. Following this is a discussion of how system components affect the accelerated electron beam. Finally, conclusions from design and operating experience are drawn."
"Target backings cooled by water in linear flow have proven capable of dissipating heat loads from 2 kW ion beams focused to about 20 mm2 for extended periods without structural failure. In addition to the more obvious modes of failure by plastic deformation and melting, metallographic studies of damaged targets have revealed deep void penetrations along grain boundaries. The targetry limitations imposed on maximum usable beam power by heat transfer from the backing to the cooling fluid have been investigated. Neutron producing lifetimes of LiF targets have been compared for different proton beam and coolant flow conditions."
"A D-T neutron target system with a 30- to 40-hour half-life has been developed that yields 1 to 2 × 1012 neutrons per sec. This system uses a target that is rotating at 1100 rpm. The good success of this system indicates that this type of target system may be capable of being used at much higher beam power levels. Calculations indicate that a beam power of 100 kW and a beam density of 10 kW/cm2 can be handled with a front target temperature of less than 250°C."
"Target development work has led to a design which has been tested with beam power densities near 10 kW/cm2. Use of this design with hydrogen isotopes for targets provides stable, long-lived neutron sources."
"The target consists of a series of annular discs which, when held concentric with the beam, allow the beam to pass unobstructed through the central holes but which, when nutated intercept it to produce electron-positron pairs. Some of the positrons are focussed into the next accelerator section by a magnetic lens, and, a solenoidal field throughout the remainder of the accelerator which is phased for positron accelerator maintains the beam diameter. A novel design feature is that the same water is used to nutate the target via turbine blades and cool the target. Nutation permits bellows to make the vacuum joints so avoiding the use of moving vacuum seals which would be necessary with a rotating target. Target 'heat load' is discussed with particular reference to the requirement for the Glasgow accelerator where the maximum electron beam energy is 110 MeV and the maximum mean power 30kW. The principle of nutation and the control system are described, and bellows fatigue, operational tests and safety systems are discussed."
"Two recently developed target manipulators have increased the versatility of remote multitargeting in the production of secondary particles from within the Argonne Zero Gradient Synchrotron (ZGS). The Mark II manipulator is constructed in modular form to facilitate assembly in one of four arm-swing configurations. This allows new coverage patterns for the three to four manipulator combinations that can multitarget on a single synchrotron pulse. It also provides for quick, accurate target changes by replacement of a complete presurveyed arm and target assembly. A current pulsed coil, reacting with the guide field, thrusts the target of the Mark IV manipulator upwards from the bottom of the beam chamber. The Mark IV compact design permits close targeting positions between manipulators. The manipulator provides distinct target movements in each of the three coordinate axes (X, Y, and Z), as well as rotation in the XZ plane. This enhances automatic target positioning control. An exact replica of the 32-in x 70-in meson targeting area has been used for positional presurveys of meson targets and for the calibration of their positional readout systems. This use has greatly reduced radiation exposure to personnel and contributed substantially towards a 50% reduction in the ZGS maintenance time."
"This paper briefly covers development of target drive mechanisms at the Bevatron, with the final evolution of the present high-speed mechanism. The early target drives, used in the main circulating beam channel, could raise a 1-lb target head 5-1/2 in. in 100 ms. The present high-speed target drive is designed to raise a 1/2-lb target head 1-1/2 in. in 10 ms. The higher-speed mechanism became desirable with increased beam control, allowing for flat topping and splitting individual Bevatron beam pulses between two or more experimenters. All designs are intended for performance in the high vacuum of the accelerating chamber."
"We shall restrict the discussion to proton accelerators in the multi-GeV energy range and of the alternating-gradient synchrotron type, with special attention given to the existing 30-GeV and the proposed 200-to 300-GeV machines. Radiation problems can be divided into two broad groups: those produced by the accelerator while it is running and those associated with the shut-down machine. The expense and difficulty of coping with these radiation problems influence the choice of design beam intensity. The problems while the machine is running are penetration of radiation through the shielding, muon shielding, penetration of radiation through ducts and labyrinths, skyshine, diffusion of radioactive air, and radiation damage to components. Some results of an LRL-CERN-Rutherford shielding experiment on the CERN-PS are presented. Problems of the shut-down accelerator include induced activity in the machine components and enclosure walls. These radiation fields affect maintenance procedures and require appropriate handling tools and shielded vehicles."
"Residual radiation levels to be encountered in medium energy proton accelerators at high beam intensity are evaluated. Excitation function data were obtained for the production of the most probable radionuclides. A computer code that takes into account the change of cross sections as the beam penetrates the target material was used to compute residual radiation dose rates for carbon, aluminum, iron, and copper as functions of bombardment time and cooling time."
"Over 40 different materials have been irradiated in the 100 MeV bremsstrahlung beam from the NBS linac. The major contributions to the gamma ray spectrum from the radioactive products have been measured using a Ge(Li) detector. Measurements have been made of gamma rays of concern in the 30 minute to 30 day time interval but this includes in some cases gamma rays from nuclides with half lives as long as 30 years. Eighteen of the samples were pure materials and 25 were commonly used structural, shielding, electrical and mechanical components. In several important cases nuclides produced by multiple particle emission dominate the picture."
"Remote maintenance is one of the prime considerations in determining the size of the mainring enclosure for the 200-GeV accelerator. The maximum residual radiation level 7 h after beam turn-off is expected to be ~50 mR/h in the socalled \"quiet\" areas of the main ring and approximately 200 R/h at the most intense point in the enclosure. We have assumed a maximum permissible radiation dose per man of one-half the permissible dose allowed by AEC regulations. Therefore, an unshielded man can work for a few hours per week in the quiet areas, but only a, few seconds per week in the \"red\" radiation areas. He must work rather quickly. For these red radiation areas, we propose using a self-propelled, manned, shielded vehicle on which are mounted two master-slave manipulators to be used as a backup for extension tools pene-trating the vehicle walls."
"This paper is a discussion of the development, testing and evaluation of a welded vacuum flange, capable of being automatically welded, and then removed and rewelded at least 4 times."
"The operation of the NBS linear accelerator and its beam handling equipment has been integrated with personnel and equipment protection safeguards and with the occupancy requirements of the linac complex. A mode switch is used to select beam direction and experimental area, and to program the requirements for personnel protection interlocks, beam handling system conditions, building mechanical services, experimental area services, and linac operation. The system includes visual and audible devices to indicate degree of readiness, hazards, faults, interlock information, zone of operation and emergency situations. A forced inspection of potentially dangerous zones, programmed cued taped warning announcements, key interlocks, and flexibility are built-in features. It offers the capability of providing maximum protection to personnel against environmental radiation hazards, and allows utilization of a maximum of laboratory space for varied beam conditions."
"The control system for the accelerator has been shaped by a number of influences: the length of the machine, the noise environment, the multiple beam concept and the desirability of single-operator or computer"
"A data acquisition and control system for the 800-MeV proton linear accelerator for the Los Alamos Meson Physics Facility has been designed on the premise that an on-line digital computer affords the best means of maintaining operator control over the machine. The presence in the control system of a computer acting as a large programmable switching device allows the active area of the accelerator control console to be concentrated into just two panels. All information regarding the status of the accelerator, together with the capability for adjusting any control channel in the facility, is provided on these two panels. The central feature of the console is a digital CRT for alphanumeric displays. With this versatile device and the other hardware on the console, the operator will be able to execute such varied and sophisticated tasks as steering the beam down the accelerator, making phase space plots of the beam, and performing parametric studies of the effect of any control channel all on-line. The concepts embodied in the LAMPF computer control system are being tested and evaluated in a series of experiments referred to as the Mockup Program. The status of these experiments and the associated hardware are described."
"The development, design and test of computer input/output devices and programing techniques suitable for use in accelerator analysis and control as well as criteria for the selection of computers acceptable for analysis and control work."
"A program is being carried out at the Bevatron, in cooperation with the 200-BeV Design Study,1 to investigate the application of computerized digital control to accelerators. Specifically, a digital-computer control system has been placed in operation at the Bevatron injector for investigation of control and operator interaction between an on-line control computer and an operating accelerator. The system controls transport and inflection of the 19.3 proton beam. The computer, which is remotely located from the accelerator, collects and disseminates control information through time-shared, hybrid (analog -- digital) interface hardware. Data transmission is via twisted pair cable. With this system the beam's center of gravity has been maintained at the entrance of the achromatic inflector, in the transverse planes, to ±0.1 mm and ±0.1 mrad2 by closed-loop sampled-data control of steering magnets at three points along the beam-transport channel. Beam-position information is obtained from 200-MHz resonant induction electrodes3 located near each steering magnet. In addition, the inflector deflection and focussing elements may be set by the operator and then regulated automatically by the computer. The operator may request typewritten or cathode-ray-tube (CRT) alphanumeric display or a CRT plot of parameters of interest. Optimization of the circulating charge in the accelerator by automatic adjustment of the inflector magnets and on-line diagnostics of certain injector components during trouble periods are planned."
"The outlines of a time-sharing multiplex control system for the Cornell 10-GeV electron synchrotron were presented at the First National Particle Accelerator Conference, March 19651. The synchrotron is now nearing completion; injection studies involving more than half the guide-field ring were carried out in 1966. At that time, the multiplex control system was working for most of the needed parameters: we report below on the results of this operating experience. We also present an outline of the steps which are being taken to use a computer for supervision and control of many of the accelerator components."
"The evolution of working accelerators invariably requires increasingly flexible beam manipulation to fulfill the demands of high energy physics experiments. The following reports on a hybrid digital-analog system that provides intricate beam manipulation programs for use with the Argonne Zero Gradient Synchrotron (ZGS). It describes the system requirements, the design philosophy, the equipment developed to fulfill these requirements, and finally, the present performance of this equipment. Figure 4 shows one view of the completed system."
"A computer system has been developed at SLAC in the beam switchyard for on-line beam transport control. The system consists of an SDS '925' computer and various specially designed interface devices. The system scans and records changes in interlocks and status signals; sets up, monitors, and maintains magnet currents and controls collimator and slit apertures. In addition to standard card and teletype input-output, the system has special panels for operator control of magnet currents and slit and collimator settings. A link to another computer provides for remote information access and control for experimenters. An important feature of the system is the operator oriented language which is provided for operator/computer interaction. The language is arranged so that an inadvertent action of the operator cannot adversely affect the computer program. A single computer instruction can vary a group of magnets simultaneously to change the beam energy while maintaining a given beam focussing condition. A fine-tune control has been provided so that the current in an arbitrary group can be controlled by a single switch. The operator can write instructions in the language which are synchronized in time to 1/360 of a second, and/or repeated at prescribed time intervals."
"The PPA machine operates on a 20 cycle per second machine rate and is not flat topped. Due to these two factors spill lengths in the region of 5 - 10 milliseconds are not only \"long\" but contain up to 10% energy modulations. Conversely \"short\" spills are those occuring in less than a few hundred microseconds. Another unusual feature of the PPA machine is the one to two nanosecond rf bunch width at spill time. This feature was inherent with the first spill techniques and has proven invaluable to experimenters doing time of flight measurements in neutral secondary beams and separating K's from μ's."
"Computer control/monitoring of the LAMPF injector requires data to be transmitted to and from the ion source in the high voltage head. These data must be digitized for computer use as is done throughout the rest of the accelerator. The A/D converter, interfacing instrumentation equipment, and control logic are placed in the head. Signals are transmitted across the 750 kV interface to and from the high voltage head through 5 light links. Four are used to replace insulated rods and strings for data and control. One transmits the pulse signal to the ion source. The system should operate at computer speeds; therefore, rise and fall times for pulse transmission of data must be less than 200 ns. The pulse width is 800 ns with a 50% duty cycle. The ion source pulse requires the same rise time but the pulse width must extend to 1.5 ms. This paper describes the system and reports the test results on a system designed to meet these specifications. The modification of the system to provide linear transmission of fast waveforms is discussed."
"In connection with a 50-kV modulator development, three methods of crossing the high-voltage interfaces at a 1-MHz bandwidth are being developed. The first system uses a pulse transformer driven from ground by solid-state electronics. The transformer requires special design to obtain a very short (≈ 500 ns) risetime combined with the ability to maintain a 1000-μs, 200-V pulse with negligible droop. The second system is an amplitude-modulated rf carrier operating at 5 MHz. The interface is crossed with an untuned toroidal rf transformer. Increased bandwidth is obtained by placing the carrier at the lower edge of the passband and operating in the single sideband full carrier mode. The signal is demodulated with a balanced diode detector having a peak output of +200 V and good linearity. The third method uses a Hewlett-Packard HPA-4309 electro-optical isolator with solid-state amplifier on the high-voltage side. The intrinsic bandwidth of the isolator unit is ~10 MHz. With suitable amplifiers to bring the pulse up to +200-V peak, the bandwidth is ~2 MHz. Because the interface is crossed at a very low level reaching an adequate signal-to-noise ratio has presented special problems. All three systems should be useful on a wide variety of high-voltage laboratory machines; each has special advantages depending on the particular application."
"As the capability of isochronous cyclotrons increases, and the requirements of the experimentalist become more sophisticated, the problems of beam handling and transport become more complex and demanding. At the NRL Isochronous Cyclotron Facility, these problems have been solved by using solid state OR, AND, NOR, and NAND logic wherever possible. Initial beam path selection is through a select-safe circuit which allows only one of 15 beam paths to be energized. After selection, it cannot be accidentally shut down. Diode, diode-transistor, and transistor-resistor logic have been used for all beam handling and transport devices, and for light and readout switching. These circuits use diode matrices to control voltage, resistor matrices to mix currents, and transistors as switches. Defective lamps are determined by a circuit which allows all lights in the control room to be tested simultaneously by pushing one button. Plug in boards and relays, quick change indicators, 90-pin connectors, and miniature terminal strips are used to facilitate trouble shooting and programming. A portable mock-up of the control console was produced for circuit test purposes, for on site operation of a beam handling device, and as a training device for new operators."
"A system is described which is used to control radial betatron oscillations in the Karlsruhe AVF Cyclotron. The output of a radial current density target is digitized and fed into the memory of a CDC 3100 on-line computer. As different orbits are separated up to extraction radius in the Karlsruhe cyclotron they can be indentified by a computer program. Their radii can either be displayed on an oscilloscope screen or used for further calculations in order to obtain information on necessary corrections of the magnetic field."
"In order to further study the vertical instability in the Brookhaven AGS a narrow band feedback damping system has been developed. The damping force is obtained from a pair of 6 ft long coils located in one of the straight sections. The damping signal is provided by a pair of pickup electrodes at an angle θ = 10.7° upstream from the coils. Since υV θ 8.8, ≅v θ ≅ Π/2. The damping is proportional to sin [nθ - (n-υ) 2Π foT] where n is the mode number, fo the rotation frequency and T the time delay between the pickup and damping elements. The system is designed to work over a range in fo from 200 kc to 370 kc. In this range, with T = .14 μsec, and for n = 7-11, the angle in brackets varies ± 19° from 2Π/2 if υ changes about ± 1%. With a simple filter in the feedback loop it is possible to provide damping for the lower order modes n = 9,8,10, without exciting those for n = 7,11 etc. under normal operating conditions."
"To protect the Stanford 3 km accelerator from damage caused by its own electron beam, a single ion chamber has been installed, which runs the whole length of the accelerator. The pulse train from the ion chamber is displayed on an oscilloscope, giving a representation of beam power loss along the machine as a function of distance from the injector. It also operates a system that shuts off the electron beam within 1 ms whenever the signal level exceeds a preset value."
"It has been shown that a commerciallyavailable scanner can be modified by the addition of an axial marker generator and water-cooled tubes in place of wires so that it can routinely scan high-current accelerator beams up to beam power densities of at least 35 kW/cm2. The versatility of the scanner has been demonstrated by its use with several different accelerators. In all cases, the installation of the scanner involved only simple adaptation to an existing beam pipe and the device was usually in place and functioning properly in less than an hour's time."
"The beam position monitor described here is inductively driven by the 1.7-microsecond pulse envelope of a relativistic electron beam. Its principal virtues seem to be its simplicity, its inherently fixed zero position, and its adaptability to wide apertures. In the form presented, it has a 3.5-inch clear aperture; its minimum sensile beam current × beam displacement is about 2 × 10-4 ampere-millimeters; its ultimate spacial resolution is 0.1 millimeter."
"This paper describes three monitors and the associated optical system used to observe the profile of the high-power electron beam in the switchyard of the two-mile linear accelerator. One device is based on the observation of synchrotron light emitted by the beam when deflected in the analyzing magnets. The second type uses the Cerenkov light produced in a gas cell which is inserted into the beam path when needed. The third type uses conventional zinc sulfide screens with a mechanism for replacing a screen which has become inactive, with a new screen. Reflective optics systems and closed circuit television are used to transmit the images of the beam spots to T.V. monitors in the control room."
"The performance of the AGS depends critically on the linac beam characteristics such as beam intensity, proton momentum, momentum spread and beam transverse phase space distribution. These parameters are measured by pulse deflection of the 50 MeV proton beam into a separate analyzing channel in which continuous beam analysis and monitoring is possible without interruption of regular AGS operation. In addition to a general description of the linac-synchrotron beam transport and analyzing system, details of the momentum spread and monitoring system are presented."
"The design and performance of three types of nonintercepting microwave beam position monitors are described. The monitors locate the transverse centroid of the bunched beam. Monitors of the first two types each consist of two orthogonal position-sensing cavities and one reference cavity. The microwave signals induced by the beam in these cavities are combined in two phase bridges and linearly detected. The video signals are normalized with respect to beam current and transmitted to two control buildings where they are displayed. Thirty-three monitors along the linear accelerator have 0.8-inch apertures, and six special monitors at the end of the machine have 2.0-inch apertures. A third type of monitor has been installed in one experimental area. Waveglide couplers on a 3-inch diameter beam drift tube feed signals to a phase bridge. The bridge sum and difference signals are amplified, detected, and differentially displayed on an oscilloscope. The device can detect 0.004-inch changes in position of a 0.01 mA beam with a response time of 50 ns."
"Internal and external operational targets for the CERN Proton Synchrotron have been electrically insulated and the charge emission from the targets measured as a means of burst intensity monitoring. Charge emission from plates placed in ejected beams have been used for beam intensity monitoring. The measurements presented here concern linearity, saturation and reproduceability tests and investigations of the various parameters influencing the signal level. The main contribution to the signal comes from 6-rays which escape from the target. Theoretical results are presented and compared with experimental results."
"Each short straight section of the Zero Gradient Synchrotron (ZGS) contains mechanisms for positioning three beam detectors. The mechanisms are noteworthy because of their unique target fast stroke length adjustment capabilities. One detector consists of a solid plate containing a long, horizontal slit. Plate position is vertically adjustable over a wide range. Beam currents to the plate flow through a coaxial cable to a signal detecting circuit. The second detector is a vertical square bar that is plunged upward. The plunge distance and horizontal position of the bar are continuously adjustable over the whole aperture. A coaxial cable connected to the bar carries beam currents to a signal detecting circuit. The third device is a vertical segmented assembly of linearly arranged detectors that can be plunged downward. The plunge distance and the horizontal position of the segmented assembly are continuously adjustable over the whole aperture. Each insulated segment is connected to resistor networks that provide voltages proportional to the total current to the segments and to the weighted function of the current to each segment. The vertical position of the beam can be derived from these voltages."
"A device is described with which one can measure total and partial horizontal or vertical emittances in shorter than 40 μs."
"The parameters of the external beam that are of prime importance to the experimenter are the emittance, energy spread, intensity of analyzed beam, and time structure. Diagnostic equipment has been developed for routine measurement and optimization of these parameters."
"Instantaneous Proton flux densities of the order of 1011 to 1020 p cm-2 s-1 have to be measured and monitored in this ejected proton beam, the mean fluxes being about 1010 to 1012 p s-1, the burst durations ranging from about 108 to 10-1 s and the beam cross sections from 10-1 to several cm2. These fluxes are much higher than those encountered previously in secondary beams but not yet high enough for macroscopic methods to be comfortably usable. Another difficulty results from the increased radiation damage. For the observation of the particle distribution in space and time, fluorescent screens and television, special nuclear emulsions and plastic counters are used; while current transformers and a secondary emission chamber serve for intensity measurements during normal operation. The choice of these detectors and monitors, their characteristics, their calibration, and experience with operation since Autumn 1965, are discussed."
"CERN has carried out over a number of years a detailed study on the possibility of adding a set of Intersecting Storage Rings (ISR) to its 28 GeV Proton Synchrotron. The plans presented by CERN were accepted by the CERN Council at its meeting in June 1965 and the necessary funds for the construction were allocated in December of the same year. The ISR will consist of two concentric magnet rings of about 150 m mean radius. The two rings are slightly distorted so as to cross each other at 8 points, around which the colliding beam experimentation will take place. With about 20 A of stacked protons in each ring, the interaction rate will be about 1.5 × 105 interactions/sec. in each of the crossing points. The construction has started and the lecture will give a description of the project and its present status. It is hoped that the runningin of the facility will start in 1971."
"Storage rings for electrons and positrons provide a powerful tool for investigation of a variety of high energy processes. The development of storage rings has relied heavily on advanced accelerator technology. Many problems such as beam instability have arisen but acceptable solutions to these problems appear to have been found. Presently contemplated storage ring projects include plans for storage rings for energies as high as 5 BeV."
"Microwave electron accelerators in the 3 MeV to 1 GeV range are being developed and produced for a variety of applications. Clinically useful X-ray, electron, neutron and pion beams can be produced for cancer therapy. Processing machines can provide electron and X-ray beams for the chemical, plastics and food industries. CW and high duty cycle accelerators are being studied and developed for research in nuclear physics. Low and medium duty cycle accelerators are being built for storage ring and synchrotron injection, neutron spectroscopy, biology and a variety of other research uses. Current design concepts for these and other applications are described."
"Among the aspects of thermonuclear plasma research and accelerator technology which have common techniques and problems is the problem of injection which in the case of accelerators is guided by limitations imposed by Liouville theorem. This limitation is being more and more fully appreciated in the problem of assembling a thermonuclear plasma. There are various examples of how this limitation on injection comes into play in the case of some plasma devices. There is an interesting analogy between the topology of phase space for particle accelerators and the topology of coordinate space for lines of force in a plasma containment device such as a toroidal stellarator. There are integral, 1/2 integral, 1/3 integral, and 1/4 integral, etc. resonances which can be stimulated by magnetic field errors in plasma confining devices and which would cause the flux plot topology to break up into rings of islands for a case where the flux plot has shear. The size of the islands depends upon the type of the multipole field forming the flux plot. Although stellarators are made with twisted or helical multipole windings wound around the major circumferential, they can also be made by sectored multipole magnets rotated between focusing and de-focusing positions as in an accelerator. For the quadrupole case, the transfer matrices include only exponentials with real expotents and no sines and cosines such as are found in the accelerator analogy. K. R."
"The characteristics of five accelerators designed for energies exceeding 3 GeV are discussed. The features of the Cornell 10 GeV machine are described in some detail."
"This index covers all technical items - papers, correspondence, reviews, etc. - that appeared in this periodical during the year, and items from previous years that were commented upon or corrected in this year. Departments and other items may also be covered if they have been judged to have archival value. The Author Index contains the primary entry for each item, listed under the first author's name. The primary entry includes the coauthors' names, the title of the paper or other item, and its location, specified by the publication abbreviation, year, month, and inclusive pagination. The Subject Index contains entries describing the item under all appropriate subject headings, plus the first author's name, the publication abbreviation, month, and year, and inclusive pages. Note that the item title is found only under the primary entry in the Author Index."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Advertisement, IEEE."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"On April 3, 1965 the world's first nuclear reactor space power system, SNAP I0A, was launched and operated successfully for forty-three days in orbit. To reduce and analyze the flight test data, data handling procedures and data analysis computer programs representing the end results of three years of effort and improvement of similar data systems for SNAP 10A ground tests were used. This paper describes the evolution of data handling and reduction from the manual methods used for the first non-nuclear system test to later ground tests where data loggers of increasing degrees of sophistication were used to generate punched paper tape which was then computer processed, reduced, and analyzed, and finally to the completely electronic and computerized reduction of flight test telemetry data. The equipment used, handling procedures developed, and computer programs are briefly described. Improvements in each generation of data system resulting from experience and improved equipment are emphasized. As a result of the experience in semi-automatic data collection, reduction, and analysis gained in the SNAP 10A program recommendations for creation and improvement of similar data systems are given, and some of the more important pitfalls encountered are discussed. Finally, the more significant differences between flight and ground acquisition and reduction are noted."
"The Mössbauer effect can be observed by detecting the gamma rays or the internal-conversion electrons and X-rays that are emitted in the de-excitation of nuclei excited previously by the resonance absorption of gamma rays. The use of conversion electrons for recording the resonance absorption is limited by the short range of these electrons. However, in special detectors--gas proportional and thin plastic scintillators--where the absorber is an integral part of the device, the detection can be made quite efficiently. In this paper the properties (counting efficiency, background, and line shape) of these resonance detectors will be discussed and compared with experimental data. It will be shown that in certain geometrical configurations the line width can be reduced whereas its shape remains very close to the Lorentzian. The detector used in this experiment is a flat gasflow proportional detector in which the cathode surface is coated with iron enriched in the isotope Fe57. The relative merits of the different detection systems will be discussed briefly."
"Thermoelectric generators are gaining increased usage in connection with low-power sources for remote areas and for oceanographic and space applications. These applications require a terminal voltage which must be supplied by connecting many thermocouple elements in series. The reliability of such an array of series-connected thermocouples is determined by the inherent reliability of the individual thermoelectric elements and decreases rapidly as the number of elements is increased; however, appreciable increases in thermopile reliability can result from the use of active redundant elements in parallel. This paper analyzes and compares the reliability of the simple series, parallel/series and series/parallel thermocouple interconnection modes. The results are presented as a function of individual couple reliability and the number of couples determining the no-load potential. The series/parallel connection scheme is shown to yield the highest reliability, and an stant power and voltage output despite the failure of several elements."
"The use of the complex reflection coefficient, R, at microwave frequencies as a plasma diagnostic tool in the high electron density range (1012 electrons/cm3) has been reported by several authors. A common assumption is that at microwave frequencies the boundary between free space and a stationary plasma is best described as a step function in electron density. Actually, many practical boundaries consist of a finite-width region wherein the electron density has a finite gradient. The complex reflection coefficient is derived for the finite width boundary and comparisons are made with an assumed sharp boundary. It is shown that improper modeling of the plasma boundary can result in significant error in electron density measurements when R is used as a diagnostic tool."
"An instrument, containing seven proportional counter detectors, has been designed for flight on the N.A.S.A. Orbiting Solar Observatory-D. The wavelength band 1 - 18Å is divided into 24 energy intervals by means of pulse height analysis. Five detectors are employed in this wavelength range; two of them provide low sensitivity alternatives at the short wavelength end of the range. Low sensitivity detectors are selected automatically by the instrument in response to increased solar X-ray activity. Two additional detectors are employed for the 44 - 55Å and 44 - 62Å wavelength bands. A calibration system, employing radioactive sources, is used for \"in flight\" calibration of all the detectors and electronic systems. Detectors are connected sequentially to a single main amplifier and eight-channel pulse height analyser. A data compression system is employed to make economical use of the available telemetry words. High voltages for the detectors are derived from two inverter circuits which employ corona stabiliser tubes. Two redundant inverter circuits provide low voltage supplies for the instrument. A spectrum in the range 1 - 18Å can be obtained every sixteen seconds."
"MOS diodes were fabricated on silicon substrates and exposed to Co60 gamma radiation. A change in both surface state density and oxide charge density was noted. Non-irradiation annealing studies were carried out to determine the nature of the oxide charge. It was deduced on the basis of annealing data that the oxide charge was due to mobile alkali ions. The radiation was seen to cause a decrease in the oxide charge density. A model attempting to explain this change was fabricated assuming Compton scattering in the oxide. The change in semiconductor surface charge density caused by the gamma irradiation was found producable or reversible by means of elevated temperature, applied bias annealing."
"The transient response of silicon surface barrier detectors to fission fragments of Cf252 was observed over a range of incident fragment energies from 13.6 to 90 MeV. From these observations the effect of the plasma formed by the incident particle on the charge collection time was determined. The time to disperse the plasma, tp, was calculated as a function of incident particle energy, Eo, and applied field, E. It was found that tp ∝ Eo1/m where 2 ≤ m ≤ 3 and tp ∝ E-1. A simple model gave reasonable agreement with the experiments and indicated that the plasma is dispersed by field-enhanced diffusion."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"Current and electric charge pulse shapes obtained for the collection of only one electron-hole pair released by an ionizing event in the sensitive volume of a coaxial Ge(Li) detector cooled at liquid nitrogen temperature, were calculated. By considering the pairs generated in the close vioinity of the detector electrodes, as well as those created in an intermediate region, maximum and minimum durations of the current pulses have been found. Low electric field intensity is assumed (charge carrier velocity directly proportional to the electric field intensity)."
"A portable, battery-operated fast neutron monitor has been developed for use at reactors and accelerators. The instrument employs a polyethylene loaded proportional counter and reads directly in biologically equivalent units for neutrons from .1 MeV to over 15 MeV on eight scales ranging from 2 mrem per hour to 6000 mrem per hour. On the lower ranges, the input pulses are integrated for electronically determined time intervals, while on the higher ranges a ratemeter mode of operation is employed. All of the electronics, including the 1400 V power supply for the protonrecoil type detector requires only 25 milliwatts of power, permitting about 500 hours of continuous operation from a small 7 V mercury battery. Electronic voltage regulation and the use of field-effect transistors in the integrating and timing circuits provide a stability of calibration far beyond that normally associated with portable survey instruments."
"The effects of fast-neutron radiation damage in narrow-base PNPN devices were measured and compared with a simple, one-dimensional theory for PNPN devices, based on the work of Kuz'min. The limitations of a PNPN device in a radiation environment are primarily determined by the increased forward \"on\" voltage. A reasonably good fit of observed and calculated \"on\" voltages for a variety of PNPN's was obtained using a silicon lifetime damage constant of ≈106 sec-N/cm2. Design considerations for radiation-resistant PNPN's are discussed, and devices capable of operating after exposure to more than 1015 neutrons/cm2 are described. PNPN's are shown to be superior to bipolar transistors as power switches in a radiation environment."
"Previous work in the field of inductive energy storage and control is described. The need for a fast, reliable switch for the control of such systems is pointed out. A new inductive energy storage switching system that fulfills this need is described. The new system utilizes an ignitron bridge circuit and a capacitor to invert from the unidirectional current of an inductive source to an alternating voltage of triangular waveform. The alternating voltage is used to charge and periodically recharge a small capacitor. This capacitor in its turn supplies energy to the load. Thus, by the use of two capacitors, whose maximum stored energy is very small compared to the total energy to be transferred, the stored energy may be transferred to the load in discrete parcels. The disassociation of storage and load circuit allows the transfer of all stored energy to the load, with the exception of the usual resistive energy loss imparted by circuit elements, a quantity that can be kept small. Therefore, the energy efficiency is higher than heretofore attained by inductive energy storage systems. The above-described switching system does not depend upon moving contacts or mechanical devices. The system results in significant reductions in initial cost per joule of energy stored as compared to the cost of capacitive energy storage systems. The inherent low energy efficiency of earlier inductive energy storage systems is discussed and it is pointed out that the theoretical energy efficiency of the bridge scheme is much higher."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Advertisement, IEEE."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current committee members."
"Potential uses of the Ge(Li) diode detector as part of a spectrometer system for space experimentation would include identification of energy sources and determination of the composition of materials. In laboratory experiments its greatest application is in low-energy nuclear physics, mainly (n, γ) reaction studies. The primary advantage in its present use is energy resolving capability. In future applications, as energy resolution is maintained close to the observed limit for the detector, increased attention must be given to optimization in terms of geometry. Further improvements are needed in the mechanical design of such systems, especially for experiments in space."
"This is a review of some selected plasma effects in semiconductors, principally InSb at 77° K. The production of nonequilibrium electronhole plasmas by electrical injection and impact ionization is described including some instabilities which attend the latter process. Some new results on the pinch effect obtained by diagnosis with a 10.6 μ CW laser are shown. Observations of the manifestation of another instability, namely gigahertz radiation, not requiring an applied magnetic field are presented. A magnetic field is required to produce some instabilities in plasmas, among these are the helical instability. A bistable element resulting from an inherent hysteresis in the threshold conditions of this instability is described. Discontinuous changes in the plasma conductance can be produced by a magnetic field and the relation of this effect to high intensity microwave emission is outlined. Finally, some preliminary results on plasma decay are presented."
"Undoped GaSb samples were irradiated at 15°K and 80°K with 0.5 MeV and 1.0 MeV electrons. The effects of the irradiation on the temperature dependence of the Hall coefficient RH and the Hall mobility μH were investigated and a study of the recovery of the radiation-produced changes of these properties was made. After irradiation the Hall coefficient curves in a log RH vs T-1 diagram exhibit a maximum at low temperatures which indicates impurity conduction resulting from radiation-produced defects. At higher temperatures where the normal conduction mechanism is predominant the sign and magnitude of the radiation-produced changes of the Hall coefficient depend in a complex manner on measurement temperature, irradiation dose and irradiation energy. The Hall coefficient data obtained after small irradiation doses provide evidence that both acceptors and donors are produced by the irradiation. Donor production appears to be more pronounced at 1.0 MeV than at 0.5 MeV. At low temperatures the reciprocal Hall mobility has a tendency to vary stronger than linear with increasing irradiation dose. The dependence of the change of the reciprocal Hall mobility on the measurement temperature indicates that a substantial fraction of the radiation-produced defects act as neutral scattering centers. Recovery between 15 and 390°K occurs in four major stages which are located near 124, 168, 210 and 360°K. Acceptors are removed in all four stages. Evidence for the removal of donors is found only for stage IV."
"Recently a model was proposed to account for anomalous infrared attenuation noted experimentally for fast-neutron-irradiated, compound semiconductors. The model represents neutron damage by localized phase transitions to a high-pressure metallic-like state. It is shown that this model not only accounts for the anomalous, continuous optical attenuation at photon energies less than the band gap, but also can explain the absorption edge fuzziness noted for neutron-irradiated GaAs. The optical attenuation produced by embedded metallic zones at frequencies above the absorption edge is derived, and it is shown that the metallic resonance absorption band is altered from the usual Lorentzian shape. It is shown that in GaAs irradiated with fast neutrons at sufficiently high doses the resonant absorption by the metallic phase can dominate the host semiconductor absorption."
"Lasers offer many potential advantages for space communications and space instrumentation. Their performance is, however, affected by the high energy radiation found in the space environment, e.g., trapped proton and electrons, solar flare protons, and possibly gamma rays and neutrons from on-board nuclear power, auxiliary or propulsive. We report here on some studies of the effects observed on lasers and laser components exposed to irradiation, and in particular on the mechanisms of these effects."
"The use of the prototype Phermex electron accelerator to simulate high dose rate nuclearradiation environments is discussed. The free electron density produced in optical materials by the beam from this machine, and that expected from a typical incident prompt-gamma radiation flux are compared. An experimental setup to measure the effects on the transmission of selected optical materials is described, and data obtained on these materials are presented. Transient or permanent loss of transmission was observed in optical glasses and GE-101 fused quartz, but no effect was seen in purified fused silica. Reflectivity of front-surface aluminum and dielectric mirrors was also checked and no effects were seen."
"The dependence of carrier lifetime on excess density was investigated for neutron-irradiated silicon. Five bulk specimens of n-type (1.0 to 55 ohm-cm) and five of p-type material (2.2 to 56 ohm-cm) were employed. In all cases the lifetime was constant at low excess densities, increased to a value several times larger at excess densities near the equilibrium carrier density, and then decreased. An analysis of the data was performed on the basis of recombination at disordered regions. The effective barrier heights associated with disordered regions were small, about 0.05 eV in n-type silicon and about 0.07 eV in p-type material. These values represent a weighted average for those regions participating in recombination and tend to favor low values. Capture probability ratios and other parameters were also obtained."
"The influence of impurities on carrier removal and annealing has been investigated in neutron-irradiated silicon in the resistivity range from 0.5 to 50 ohm-cm. Carrier removal rates in n-type material are strongly dependent upon the crystal growth method and are lower in Czochralski-grown (oxygen containing) material than in material grown by the vacuum-float-zone or LOPEX techniques. A slight dependence of the removal rate on the dopant impurity is observed in vacuum-float-zone material but not in Czochralski-grown material. The annealing behavior of n-type material is also very crystal growth dependent. An annealing stage located between approximately 144°C and 170° C is observed in vacuum-float-zone and LOPEX-grown material but not in material grown by the Czochralski method. The location of the stage is dependent upon the dopant impurity. Carrier removal at room temperature in p-type material is not influenced by the growth method or the dopant impurity. However, dopant effects are observed upon annealing."
"Crucible grown p-type silicon, as used for the base of many commercial solar cells, exhibits a damage coefficient under electron bombardment that appears to involve a double defect in each recombination center. The damage coefficient has been fitted to an empirical formula that accounts for silicon resistivity and for energy of the bombarding particles. To apply this formulation to a practical evaluation of solar cell damage in orbit, two complications were considered. The first is the angular distribution of the space radiation incident on the cell. An experiment showed that electron flux, and not current, determines the extent of the damage. The second is the presence of a transparent coverslide over the cell. By the application of Monte Carlo data for the transmission loss and energy degradation of the electrons, modifications to the damage coefficient can be made to account for coverslide shielding. An exponential attenuation appears adequate to describe these shielding effects. The end product of this study is an analytic formula for the damage coefficient that allows a simple calculation of the damage caused by energetic electrons to n/p silicon solar cells with coverslides."
"A two level mnodel for recombination processes in neutron irradiated silicon and germanium is proposed. This model successfully explains published experimental data for lifetime and. life-time damage constant as a function of resistivity, injection level and, temperature."
"Lithium plays a role in the degradation and recovery of diffusion length in lithium-doped silicon p/n solar cells irradiated with 1 MeV electrons. Salient experimental results are that (1) the diffusion length degrades when these cells are irradiated at a fast rate; (2) the time constant for recovery of diffusion length decreases with lithium concentration, and increases with fluence, as ϕ2/3; and (3) recovery is a temperature-sensitive process with an activation energy of (0.61 ± 0.10) eV. These results suggest the following model for the damage and recovery process. Degradation of diffusion length occurs when radiation-induced vacancies pair with lithium and other available impurities to form immobile, negatively-charged recombination sites. These sites are formed at a rate governed by the irradiation rate and the high vacancy mobility. Unpaired lithium ions diffuse to, and pair with, these recombination sites, reducing their cross sections to very low values. Thus, recovery of diffusion length occurs. Recovery follows diffusion-limited kinetics in which the reacting species are of unequal concentrations. The capture radius of the recombination site for a lithium ion is proposed to decrease with fluence as ϕ-2/3 to achieve better accord between theory and experiment."
"Majority carrier removal rates for electron irradiation were studied in lithium doped float zone silicon. The removal appears to be due to reaction of lithium donors with displacement products to form uncharged complexes. A time dependent removal was observed after termination of the radiation. An exponential removal of carriers with electron fluence was also observed."
"Studies have been performed to explore accurately the injection level and temperature dependence of transient annealing in neutron-irradiated P- and N-type silicon. In P-type material, the annealing factor in the 0 to 0.1 second time interval is very sensitive to the minority carrier injection level. For example, by varying the injection level from 10-5 to 10-1 the annealing factor at 0.001 second can be reduced from 10 to approximately 2. In contrast to the P-type results, the injection dependence observed in N-type silicon is very small and, furthermore, is in the opposite sense; i.e., an increase in the injection level causes an increase in the annealing factor. However, this study shows that this seemingly different behavior can be correlated on the basis of the hole-to-electron ratios of the different material types and resistivities. Annealing measurements performed in the temperature range from 180°to 300°K reaffirm the 0.3 eV activation energy previously found in P-type silicon and establish a value of 0.17 eV for N-type silicon."
"Prediction of transistor performance in neutron radiation is subject to many variables. Several of these were investigated in order to improve prediction accuracy. Experimental data are discussed for the base transit time parameter, variation in damage with different bias conditions during irradiation, changes in damage observed after room-temperature storage and repeated high current measurements, and junction capacitance as a function of measurement frequency before and after irradiation."
"When a transistor is subjected to neutron irradiation, a component of base current proportional to neutron fluence is induced. From the effects of annealing on the base and collector currents, the conclusion was drawn that there is an apparent difference in the annealing characteristics between the neutral and the space-charge regions of the semiconductor device. This study of the anomalous annealing indicates that the neutron-induced component of base current is a result of one, or a combination, of the following mechanisms: a quasi-tunneling recombination phenomena in the emitter-base space-charge region, or an influence of the p-n junction electric field on the formation, annealing, and electronic behavior of the neutron-induced defect centers. A field dependence of the formation and annealing of the neutron-induced defects appears to be present both during the introduction and annealing of the neutron-induced defect centers. It could not be finally determined whether or not the quasitunneling phenomena occurred although it can be shown on theoretical grounds that it is possible for such phenomena to occur. The annealing characteristics of the defects, as represented by changes in the collector and base currents, have been obtained. Three sets of devices were irradiated and then annealed, with one set having a forward bias during annealing, one set having no bias, and one set having a reverse bias. The dependence of the field on annealing is present but appears quite complex."
"A technique is described for using the damage in silicon to measure neutron exposure in Radiation Damage Units (RDUs) with transistors called Radiation Damage Monitors (RDMs). The technique is useful in measuring the damage gradients across experiments and in determining the relative damage effect of a neutron environment. Two calibration procedures are described, as are the operating characteristics and use procedures for five transistor RDMs to cover the exposure range from 1011 to 1015 n/cm2."
"A computer program has been written for the prediction of transient and permanent radiation damage in junction devices. This program calculates the transient solutions of Poisson's equation and the continuity equations throughout a one-dimensional structure. Mobility, lifetime, and carrier generation are described by nonlinear functions of carrier density and current so that scatter-limiting velocity, Shockley-Read-Hall recombination, and avalanche ionization phenomena are described. Three examples are presented which illustrate the utility of such programs in predicting both ionization and displacement damage effects in a PIN diode and a bipolar transistor."
"A computer program has been formulated to solve the time-dependent differential equations describing electron and hole concentrations and the electric field in one-dimensional planar semiconductor-device geometry. The usual assumptions of small minority-carrier concentration and requirements for separating devices into neutral and space-charge regions are not required since the depletion layer is a natural result of the computer solution. Problems which have been studied include the relaxation of P-N junction diodes and transistors from an intense short pulse of ionizing radiation. The phenomena observed include an apparent long recovery time of diodes in high-impedance circuits, ambipolar diffusion of electron-hole pairs toward the junction of alloy diodes, and electric-field peaking in the depletion layer of reverse-biased alloy junctions."
"Analytical expressions for the shape of the diffusion component of the current pulses from a reverse biased semiconductor diode irradiated by short bursts of x-rays are derived, taking into account the physical dimensions and the effect of back diffusion of charge carriers into the bulk regions from the depletion zone. By the model used it seems to be possible to explain the experimentally observed variations of both the amplitude and the decay of the diffusion component with the reverse voltage."
"A model is developed that predicts the critical dose of ionizing radiation required to trigger an SCR as a function of device parameters and biasing. This model also explains the long delay time observed between the ionizing pulse and device switching. The model makes use of the charge control concept. In general, computer solutions are required. A linear approximation is also developed that gives a good estimate in many cases. A method to obtain all parameters needed in the model is presented."
"The induced noise produced as a result of the impingement of electrons and X-rays on star tracker photomultiplier tubes has been investigated. Noise in this sense is anode current that is not due to a intended light signal, but which results from electron or X-ray irradiation. Anode current as a function of electron beam current density was measured for both shielded and unshielded RCA tubes 1P21, C70129C, and 8571. The anode current was found to vary linearly with electron beam current density. The shielded tubes were found to exhibit a 300-fold reduction in anode current density over the unshielded tubes. From this data it could be inferred that 2.6 MeV electrons are an order of magnitude more efficient in producing anode current than the X-rays resulting from stopping these electrons in 1/4-inch aluminum shields. The mechanism of this noise production was also studied, it was found that the major source of the noise is from luminescence in the glass envelope of the tubes, the remainder being due to recoil electrons in the area of the photocathode."
"Various electronic parts were exposed to combined environments such as temperature, vacuum, and nuclear radiation. A brief summary of the total results is presented with a more detailed description of the results obtained on the 2N911 transistor."
"Seventeen commercially available films were evaluated for their sensitivity to ionizing radiation during a projected near-earth orbital mission. Although the evaluating technique described is not rigorous, it is useful in obtaining engineering estimates of tolerable radiation exposure levels for films used in near-earth orbital missions."
"A laboratory study of the shielding against energetic electrons afforded by cylindrical aluminum satellites is reported. The incident electron flux had a near-exponential integral energy distribution with a folding energy of 500 kev over the range: 140 kev to 3.0 Mev. The angle of incidence was isotropic in the plane normal to the cylindrical axis and randomly distributed within an envelope of approximately 55 degrees in the orthogonal plane. The satellite was thus simulated at an erect attitude to the earth' s magnetic field in a region of trapped radiation. Internal spectral flux measurements were made on the axis and at the periphery of cylinders having height-to-diameter ratios from 1:4 to 4:1 with wall thicknesses from 180 mg/cm2 to 900 mg/cm2 in nominal 25-mil steps."
"A large signal equivalent circuit which can be used to predict the behavior of MOS transistors in a pulsed radiation environment is presented. MOS FET behavior is interpreted wholly in terms of standard circuit elements which correspond closely to the operating principles of the device. The channel current is expressed as a single equation of the terminal voltages, which permits direct application of the model to many of the existing TREE computer codes. The model is generalized to encompass n-or p-channel transistors in a manner such that the source and drain terminals are interchangeable. Some aspects of the FET intrinsic time response are as yet unresolved, but a model which neglects the intrinsic time response has been successfully utilized in the SCEPTRE computer program to predict the transient response of a discrete MOS flip-flop circuit."
"The effect of transient and steady state radiation on a dielectric switch has been investigated. The dielectric switch is a solid state device which remains, indefinitely, in either a low resistance or a high resistnace state. It trips from the former to the latter by the application of a high current pulse. The reverse procedure is accomplished by a high voltage pulse. For the transient study, pulses from a 55-Mev Linac and 600-kev flash X-rays were used. Gamma rays from a Co-60 source were used for the steady state study. The device appears impervious to a Linac dose rate of 2.4 x 1010 rads (Si)/sec or an X-ray dose rate of 7.47 x 107 rads (Si)/sec. Below a Co-60 dose of 8 x 107 rads, negligible changes in resistance occur but above this level radiation induced switching (on-to-off) occurs as well as increases in resistance. The devices, however, recovered completely after the test was completed. Possible explanations for the responses are offered on the basis of a model developed for device operation."
"Radiation-induced switching in simple bistable tunnel diode circuits at radiation intensities in the range 10810-10 R/s was experimentally investigated at a 17-MeV LINAC source with 40-ns electron pulses. Silicon and gallium arsenide tunnel diodes (0.5-5 mA peak current) were operated at various levels below the peak point voltage and monitored for possible change of state following irradiation. Permissible low-voltage operating points for the bistable circuits where tunneldiodes did not switch to the high-voltage state were determined at several exposure rates. The results of the investigation have applicability in tunnel diode logic and memory array design. Tunnel diodes with higher peak-point currents (5 and 2 mA devices) were found to be more resistant to radiation-induced switching effects. Silicon devices were more consistent in response than gallium arsenide units. Silicon 4.8-mA tunnel diode circuits did not switch when initially biased at 73% peak current at a radiation exposure rate of 1.1 × 109 R/s (44 R)."
"The ionizing radiation and neutron displacement damage failures of integrated flip-flop circuits are predicted from the electrical circuit parameters, geometry, and dominant radiation-induced failure mechanisms. The results are sufficiently accurate to guide an experimental study or a first-order vulnerability analysis. Techniques and approximations used are much simplier than the computer-aided circuit analysis usually required for the detailed determination of circuit response. Experimental and predicted radiation failure thresholds are presented for both a dielectrically-isolated and a junction-isolated circuit."
"Three radiation-hardened power circuits have been designed, fabricated, and tested. These semiconductor circuits, which typify functions found in advanced missile systems, are (1) a high-voltage, 100-watt d.c.-to-d.c. converter, (2) a 50-kHz, 10-watt modulator or chopper, and (3) a 250-watt power switch. All circuits were specifically designed for extreme hardness to nuclear radiation environments and have been proven hard to 5 x 1011 rads(Si)/sec and neutron fluences up to 3 x 1014 n/cm2 (E>10 kev)."
"The grazing electron beam probe technique has been used to study the behavior of the electric field external to planar irradiated samples in vacuo. The trapped charge density can be determined from these data so that its behavior during and subsequent to the irradiation period can be studied with microsecond time resolution. Secondary phenomena associated with high-rate electron deposition of energy in dielectrics at dose rates from 106 to 1010 rads/sec are discussed and include charged particle emission, backscatter, and luminescence. The measurements have been conducted with simultaneous determination of the trapped charge level in the irradiated sample."
"The utility of the quantitative assay of free radicals produced in polytetrafluoroethylene as a means of ionizing radiation dosimetry is discussed. Electron paramagnetic resonance spectroscopy is used as the diagnostic technique. It is shown that this dosimetry concept is very useful over the range 10/3 to 108 rad and that the range can be extended on both ends without much difficulty. Also, this material can be used to obtain depthdose profiles in a straightforward manner."
"A new technique is presented for determining neutron spectra from foil activation data. The set of activation integral equations are replaced by an underdetermined system of linear equations whose solutions are piecewise linear representations of the differential flux. The technique then selects that solution which is closest to a trial solution in a least squares sense. Examples are presented showing various neutron spectra determined from activation data and certain radiation effects computed with these resultant spectra. A comparison of these \"calculated\" effects with the \"actual\" effects as computed with the actual spectra shows excellent agreement."
"The differential energy spectrum of a flash x-ray source or other pulsed radiation sources may be measured using the ferroelectric radiation detector. The detector, consisting of the poled ceramic lead zirconate titanate, exhibits a pulse charge output which is proportional to the absorbed dose. The spectrorneter system itself employs a filtration technique where a set of energy-selective metal filters is positioned in front of a corresponding set of ferroelectric detectors, and the radiation induced charge output of each detector is measured. From this data the spectrum of the pulsed radiation source is deduced by the use of a numerical unfolding technique. Experimentally, the concept of the ferroelectric spectrometer system was verified by measuring the spectrum of a 0.6 MVP flash x-ray machine. Since the ferroelectric detector exhibits a dynamic response to the incident radiation pulse, the same spectrometer concept is used to measure the spectrum as a function of time. The time-dependent character of tnle flash x-ray machine spectrum was detected experimentally and tne results showed that the energy spectrum is harder during the first portion of the pulse."
"Until very recently, the accumulation of positive charge has been reported as the dominant mechanism responsible for the \"surface effect\" in oxide passivated devices. A bipolar planar device with MOS field electrodes over each junction was investigated in the hope it would prove resistant to the \" surface effect\". Some of the results of this investigation are presented in terms of models of the influence of the MOS field electrodes. The existence of the positive charge effect and the introduction of acceptor-like surface recombination states are demonstrated. The additional surface recombination states are shown to be the dominant mechanism."
"Very low-energy protons (0.4 to 27.5 kev) were used to study surface effects in silicon solar cells. The types of solar cells tested included conventional cells of n/p and p/n construction, as well as recently developed lithium-doped p/n cells (supplied by Heliotek Inc.). A proton beam of selected energy was used as a probe to penetrate to specified depths within the cells. Characteristic V-I curves were obtained before, during, and after proton exposure. Proton-induced degradation of the cell characteristics were analyzed. Anomalous damage, including partially recoverable losses of open-circuit voltage and significant losses of maximum power, were identified with various regions of the cells by correlation with proton penetration depths."
"The effect of 1. 5 MeV and 20 keV electrons on the mobility was determined for a number of different types of n- and p-channel insulated gate field effect transistors with thermally grown oxide and deposited nitride passivation. An expression has been derived for the variation of the effective mobility with gate voltage as the result of surface scattering, which is in good agreement with values obtained from the channel conductance at 100 mV source to drain voltage. It is shown that the observed decrease in effective mobility after irradiation may be explained in terms of increased lattice scattering and Coulomb scattering by charged surface traps while the diffuse surface scattering remains unchanged. The channel conductance and transconductance of the devices were also measured in the saturation region."
"In the search for a means to minimize the radiation sensitivity of MOS transistors, a study was made on the interrelation between sensitivity to space radiation in MOS devices and the method of fabricating the gate oxide film of these devices. Both MOS capacitors and transistors were studied, using automatic plotting of capacitance-voltage and channel current gate voltage characteristics. For both types of device, the oxides studied were fabricated under varied but closely controlled conditions. Both special laboratory furnaces and production type of furnaces were used to grow the gate oxide. As a result of these experiments, the following conclusions were reached. (1) Gate oxide process techniques vary in their effect on the sensitivity of MOS structures to high-energy radiation by an order of magnitude. (2) The reproducibility of the degree of sensitivity to radiation is greater when steam-growth of oxides is used, rather than dry-oxygen growth. (3) In general, the nearer the prebombardment C-V characteristic of an MIS insulator is to the ideal (charge-free) charateristic, the less sensitive is the MIS device to radiation. (4) A key experiment was the successful \"hardening\", by a factor of 2 to 3 in the voltage shift, of dry oxide layers by the addition of a coating of phosphorus containing glass. (5) Several other process parameters (e. g. crystallographic orientation of the silicon) can be ruled out as to their influence on radiation sensitivity. (6) The present levels of radiation sensitivity in mass-produced devices can be reduced by changes in process technique."
"Thirty-three MOS-FETS were operated at various bias points under 60Co gamma irradiation up to a total dose of approximately 107 R. The n-channel depletion, n-channel enhancement, and p-channel enhancement devices were operated at constant drain voltage in the common source mode. The results demonstrate effects of lateral oxide charge distributions along the channel between source and drain terminals. A tendency for the n-channel devices to gradually turn off is observed in addition to the threshold voltage shifts previously reported. A factor of ten improvement in radiation resistance can be obtained by using optimum device types (n-channel) at gate voltages which minimize threshold voltage shift (approximately zero volts)."
"Experiments indicate that silicon nitride passivation layers on top of thermally grown oxide in conjunction with heat treatment can improve the radiation stability of MISFET devices. In addition, MOSFET devices that have glass passivation layers and other special treatment can also show improved radiation stability."
"A shift in the gate threshold voltage of 7 to 9 times its initial value after irradiation with 2 to 6 x 1012 electrons/cm2 of 1.5 Mev electrons is observed for a p-channel enhancement type MOSFET. The effect has only been observed at gate biases greater than -20 V."
"An experimental investigation has been conducted to determine the influence of Co60 gamma irradiation on the surface recombination velocity in 100 ohm-cm n- and p-type silicon. Utilization of the technique of photoconductive decay to measure the surface recombination velocity requires the knowledge of the bulk minority carrier lifetime in the material. For completeness, the effects of the irradiation on this material parameter are also presented. When etched samples of n-type float zone refined phosphorous doped silicon were irradiated with Co60 gamma rays, the surface recombination velocity exhibited a relative minimum as a function of the total gamma ray exposure dosage. In general, the surface recombination velocity was strongly influenced by the gamma irradiation for n-type material. The surface recombination velocity of irradiated samples of p-type float zone refined boron doped silicon seemed to be only slightly sensitive to gamma radiation. The velocity was a very slowly monotonically increasing function of total gamma ray flux. In order to explain these observed variations of surface recombination velocity, a more complete mathematical model was formulated. The model includes the contribution due to recombination in the space charge layer near the surface to the effective surface recombination velocity at the beginning of this space charge region. Use of this model allowed the correlation of experimental and theoretical values of surface recombination velocity. When bulk minority carrier lifetime versus reciprocal temperature data was curve-fitted to the Shockley-Read lifetime, the position of the radiation-induced bulk recombination center in the forbidden region could be determined."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Advertisement, IEEE."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"Caveat Emptor - Let the buyer beware! Let the wouldbe bio-medical engineer beware of slogans! It has become fashionable among certain bioengineers to invest ideas such as feedback-control, information content, probabilistic mlodel, systems analysis approach abstracted from physical systems where they have proven applicable-with a certain transcendental or mvstical aura as though these were of nmetaphysical significanice wvithout reference to any specific setting. This is the kind of nonsense which somnetiml-es impresses the uninitiated. The above mentionied ideas have provided extremely useful models in understanding a certain range of natural phenomeina. However, in extending these ideas fromn engineering to biology caution is needed. In particular, it is necessary to show, experimientally, wvithin the termiis of each subject matter, that such ideas are relevant or applicable. These are not yet scientific theories or even hypotheses unless they are demonstrable in observations of particular biological phenomena."
"An electronic device is proposed for measuring motion within the human body in the presence of extraneous metallic bodies within it, by reflected environmental changes, near a coil forming part of the tuned circuit-fan oscillator. The circuit details and the various possible applications are discussed."
"A method for digitizing graphic records is presented. First, the TRACER is described. This electromechanical device is used on-line with a digital computer (LINC) having analog-to-digital input channels. As the stylus on the TRACER is moved over the record to be digitized, its position is indicated by a unique set of resistance values. These are converted to voltages which are forwarded to the computer as (X, Y) coordinate values. The computer stores these values, operates on them and displays the converted record on an on-line oscilloscope. Associated computer programs are discussed as well as applications. A section on errors and a comparison with presently available methods is included."
"A lumped parameter physical model of the human vascular system is proposed, which consists of four components- two elastic chambers joined by an inertance and followed by a pure resistance (grossly approximating, respectively, large and small arterial systems joined by long columns of blood and followed by the capillary bed). Equations of this model are presented in both mechanical and electrical equivalents and normal modes of response are derived. These normal modes of the model determine a descriptive equation for the contour of the actual arterial pressure pulse. Particular values of model components can be calculated for specific human subjects under varying conditions of stress or disease through a least squares fit of the descriptive equation to the clinically measured pressure pulse contour."
"In studies of electrocardiographic lead performance, theoretical analyses of the influence of the anisotropic heart and skeletal muscle are particularly difficult. In this paper, the basic differential equations of static fields and steady current flow are arranged to emphasize the field and conductivity dependent charge distributions which arise in anisotropic media. The equations are applied to two types of problems of immediate interest. Firstly, the equations are used to explain how anisotropic media may be included in current digital computer studies of the heart-lead relation and to conclude that the techniques which made the computer studies possible tend to lose their advantage when applied to arbitrary anisotropic configurations. Secondly, the equations are used to develop a principle which permits exact solutions for the fields of numerous simple anisotropic configurations. Three such configurations useful for heart-lead studies are analyzed with the following results: the anisotropic skeletal muscle can be treated in special cases such as a head-foot heart-vector lead approximately as isotropic with resistivity of 280 ohm cm; the closed dipolar layer in an anisotropic, inhomogeneous heart produces the same null electric field as it does in homogeneous isotropic media; bounds on the influence of the heart's anisotropy on a heart-vector lead field are estimated at plus or minus 12 percent of the average lead field intensity."
"Reciprocal energization of an electrocardiographic lead connection in a torso model produces an electrical field from which equivalent cardiac dipolar and multipolar transfer coefficients may be determined. This purpose can be fully served by sufficiently numerous experimental measurements of reciprocal field potential over a Gaussian sphere which is large enough to encompass the entire cardiac region. A systematic field-sampling procedure of appropriate design has resulted in the development of reliable numerical methods for the resolution of reciprocal potential functions into the desired transfer coefficients. The underlying principles as well as the data reduction procedure itself are directly applicable to the analysis of other kinds of Newtonian potential functions."
"Multiplex systems are examined in the time and frequency domains for their utility in applications to biological studies. The continuous-wave FM is shown to fit best the requirements of genuine signal reproduction, reasonable construction and reliability."
"A six channel FM/FM physiological telemetry system was designed to measure two surface temperatures, an internal temperature, the respiration rate, and position and muscle spasm of a paralyzed patient. The system has since been adapted to permit the measurement of pulse rate. Tunnel-diode subcarrier oscillators operating from a constant-current source provided excellent temperature and long-term stability while permitting a complete transmission package with size 0.6×2.5×2.5 inches and weight 15 gm. A compatible transistorized receiving system was also constructed."
"In the study of metabolic reactions, it is frequently desirable to observe the oxygen concentration in a solution that bathes the tissues under study to obtain a measure of the rate of oxygen utilization. Typically, either the oxygen is depleted in a matter of minutes and the test terminated or the ratio of solution to tissue is so large that meaningful measurernents are difficult. For tests in which the oxygen is taken from the surrounding gas, Wager and Porter (1961) have described a solution to the problem in which a manometric measurement of p02 con trolled the electrolytic production of oxygen which then had to be released into the atmosphere surrounding the tissue. The instrument described here also employs a pO2 measurernent to control the electrolytic production of oxygen, but a much greater speed of response is obtained by 1) the use of a Clark-type electrode for PO2 measurement, and 2) producing the oxygen directly in the solution that surrounds the test material. The hydrogen that is also formed in the electrolysis is sufficiently isolated from the tissue under test that no noticeable effects are produced. Furthermore, agreement between the net electrical charge involved in the electrolysis and the resulting amount of oxygen produced was within 5%, using published values\" of the partial pressure of oxygen in air-saturated water as a standard."
"Brain waves or EEG's are the seemingly random voltage fluctuations which appear on the surface of the scalp of humans and animals. The EEG Research Group at the University of Missouri has been interested in finding useful statistics with which to describe an EEG. In the past such calculations as the rms value of the wave, the autocorrelation function, etc., have been used to describe the process. It is convenient to use a stationary random process as a model for the EEG. Because the amplitude distribution of the EEG appears to be Gaussian, it has been suggested that a better model might be the normal stationary random process. This paper describes a test which was made to determine if the normal process is really a good model for the EEG."
"This communication describes an electromagnetic biopsy device built at the Electronics Department of the Weizmann Institute, Israel, and presently undergoing evaluation at Tel-Hashomer Hospital. The device is intended to obtain biopsy samples froom the gastrointestinal tract after introduction through the natural openings to this tract. It wras originally intended to develop a device which would be easily passed, would be capable of taking multiple cuts without having to be withdrawn and reset after each cut, would not accidentally trip while being directed to the site of interest, could be backed off an incomplete cut and would permit the degree of vacuum to be con-trolled independently of the force activating the knife. This latter condition allows better control of the size of the biopsy speclimen than is achieved with several available devices."
"In their recent paper Barr, Pilkington, Boineau and Spach (ibid., vol. BME-13, pp. 88-92, April 1966) present a method for solving the boundary-value problems of interest to electrocardiography based on Green's theorem. An earlier method was presented Gelernter and Swihart (1964) and the purpose of this note is to point out how it also can be related to Green's theorem. A more extensive treatment of aspects of this problem is contained in a recent preliminary report by the author (MIT, Research Lab. of Electrollics, Cambridge, MA, Quarterly Progress Rept. 81, pp. 218-226, April 15, 1966. also Biophys. J., January 1967)."
"Many biological tissues have some degree of directional organization and would therefore be expected to behave anisotropically to electrical current conduction. An analysis of curren t and poten tial distribu tions throughout the bulk of such a tissue may be required, for exa nrple, in electrical stimulation and recording with macroelectrodes, impedance measurements, and field effects in cerebral cortex. In all these cases the sources and sinks of current will usually have complex distributions which render a cornputa tional solution difficult and inaccessible to experirnental workers, In addition it is normally impossible to construct a model and measure the required quantities since the model would require an anisotropically conducting medium which could not be easily realized in practice. The method described, subsequently, shows it is possible to use a model with an isotropic medium provided the shape of the model is suitably distorted. The method will be outlined for the case of finding the current and potential distributions when a current I is passed between two arbitrarily shaped electrodes in an anisotropic medium having principal conductivities."
"A number of investigators are currently using chronically inmplanted blood flow probes of one of several types in various species. Several years ago (early 1963) we developed a simple technique of protecting the ascendinig aorta of the dog from erosion and rupture folloring imiiplant of a chronic (epoxy encapsulated) flow probe (Medicon types \"K\" and \"Q,\" and a similarly shaped permanent imiagnet probe of our own design). Since we nowv have had sufficient experience to indicate a life expectancy of more than a year, it was thought that other investigators might wish to employ the procedure where long-term imuplanit experiments are planned."
"The 1966 Rochester Conference on Data Acqtiisition and Processing in Biology, and Medicine was held on July 25-27. In addition to the 40 participants - authors, session chairmlen, and committee members - approximnately 120 people registered. The keynote address was given by Dr. Karl Frank (National Institute of Neurological Diseases and Blindness, National InstituLtes of HeIalth), who related objectives of society, which he characterized as arbitary rather than preordained, to goals of biomedical engineerinig. He conicentrated mlostly on aspects of neurological control, imaking a plea for the development of miultiple electrodes, and better communications betwveen the human user of computers and the computers. The remainder of the conference events are briefly summarized and reviewed."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"A newly developed method for measurement of intraocular and other physiological pressures consists of a novel displacement transducer contained in a distensible pillbox small enough (3 to 60 μl) to be implanted in the eye of a small laboratory animal. Nothing pierces or even touches the globe. This passive resonant transensor absorbs energy from an oscillating detector coil outside of the animal at a frequency dependent upon the pressure in the eye. Passive operation provides extended life, but limits useful range to less than 10 transducer diameters, which has proved sufficient for intraocular pressure measurement."
"Spike activity has a much wider energy spectrum than does postsynaptic activity. Under the assumption that the frequency spectrum of spike activity ranges from dc to 1000 Hz, the prediction was made that high-frequency electrical activity could be modulated by sensory stimulation and might well be detectable at the human scalp. This prediction was borne out in experiments that were successful in detecting the modulation of activity between 300 and 1000 Hz. This band was selected to suppress the major effects of the low-frequency classical brain waves. A control experiment was conducted in which any surviving harmonics of the classical evoked potential were markedly reduced. The high-frequency activity was essentially unaffected, thereby substantiating the hypothesis that this kind of activity is different from brain waves. It was also shown that the effect is related to the specific frequency of the stimulus and it is not attributable to either a general increase or a redistribution of brain activity. It is suggested that the high-frequency or spike activity might furnish the basis for a better correlation between electrophysiological data and sensory experience than does the classical evoked response."
"This paper describes research on the application of a newly developed pattern-recognition technique called the polynomial discriminant method (PDM) [1] to the diagnosis of heart disease as evidenced in the vectorcardiogram (an orthogonalized form of electrocardiogram)."
"The geometric efficiency of a focusing collimator is calculated directly at the focal plane and the significance of this parameter of collimator performance is discussed. The signal and noise for different collimator parameters is calculated neglecting septa penetration. The dependence of optimal collimator design upon the geometric size and environment of the radioisotope inhomogeneity being sought is examined in some detail. A criterion for lesion detectability is formulated which is based upon areal comparisons and which seeks to exhibit explicitly the statistical probabilities of false positive and false negative interpretations."
"A new kind of cardiac pacemaker for direct heart stimulation in cases of intermittent or variable heart block is presented. The pacemaker is capable of providing stimuli either synchronously with ventricular depolarization or at a fixed rate when natural pacing fails. Thus any competition between artificial and physiological rhythm is avoided, while allowing the exploitation, from the hemodynamic viewpoint, of the surviving capability of physiologic control of the heart rate. The main features of the instrument are that the shifts from synchronous to free operation and vice versa take place in an automatic way, and no electrode besides those which provide stimulation are needed for synchronization. The mean power consumption of the pacemaker is comparable with that of conventional unsynchronized pacemakers. Thus the subcutaneous implantation is possible, with a theoretical lifetime of 30 000-hour autonomy. Schematic diagrams and waveforms are included."
"The chronic stimulation of peripheral nerves has, in the past, usually been of an intermittent or relatively short-term nature. Histologic changes which have taken place have been attributed to the trauma caused by mechanical factors and/or the effects of electrical charges. Investigators, speculating on the effects of electro-stimulation, have designed electrodes specifically to minimize tissue damage. The purpose of the present investigation is to determine which pathologic alterations, if any, are caused specifically by electrical-as distinct from mechanical-factors. Dogs were divided into two groups, differing only in that one group-the controls-had electrodes implanted around the phrenic nerve, but stimulation was never applied. Duration of the test was up to 308 days. The results indicated that no histologic alterations could be attributed specifically to electrical stimulation, as contrasted to mechanical trauma, to the phrenic nerve."
"A mathematical model for the behavior of passive iron in concentrated nitric acid, based on the electrochemical mechanism, is proposed. The model is capable of explaining several phenomena including threshold for activation, monostable property, periodic activation, propagation of activation and threshold for propagation. Furthermore, the mathematical model shows that the electrochemical active line has a specific propagated waveform and velocity of propagation."
"A theory is presented on the decompression procedure required after diving and on the accumulation of gases in the blood and in tissues during a dive. It is postulated that the decompression procedure must be such that at no time the partial pressure of the dissolved gases exceeds the external pressure. It is shown that the partial pressure of dissolved nitrogen is a weighted average of the external pressures to which the diver has been exposed previously. To make allowance for the partial pressure of dissolved oxygen, however, requires a more complicated formulation. The theory is in good agreement with published diving tables."
"A method for tissue stimulation is described. It A consists of the energizing of subcutaneously implanted solar cells by means of an extra-corporal light source which provides intermittent illumination. Wave lengths of light passing through the skin are compatible with the spectral response of the solar cells, thus enabling relatively good transmission efficiency. In the present work, we describe a cardiac pacemaker which was used to demonstrate tissue stimulation utilizing the above-mentioned method. It is the purpose of this communication to present our preliminary experience with the activation of implanted solar cells for pacemaking in dogs; this method serves as an example of stimulation of other organs."
"For the above-named work (ibid., vol. BME-13, pp. 76-87, April 1966) the magnitude of the current 2I should be replaced with I for the extreme left image in Fig. 2. In addition the multiplying factor 2 should be removed from the secoind term in the electric field equationis (6) and (7). The contribution to the total field by these terms is sufficiently small that the computer results remain valid."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"The localization of various brain structures during stereotactic surgery is dependent upon stereotactic atlases used in conjunction with demonstrable radiographic landmarks. Because of the considerable anatomical variability encountered in humans, this localization is only an approximation. For animal studies electrode positions can be confirmed histologically at necropsy. Routine techniques have been developed for animal neurophysiologic recording but have not been extensively applied to humans. This paper presents a method for recording human evoked potentials from various thalamic nuclei. Peripheral stimulation and stimulation within the brain are used to evoke depth and scalp potentials. The evoked responses are averaged at various well-known thalamic nuclei, e.g., ventral posterior lateral (VPL), ventral posterior medial (VPM), centre median (CM), that have characteristic responses. These nuclei, in conjunction with radiographic information, are used as landmarks to aid location of other brain structures."
"Rapid skilled movements by a human subject are executed at such a rate that conscious control can be no more than the strategic selection of a sequence of detailed tactical plans of control, which have previously been learned by the subject. By the use of transient changes in the force applied to various muscle groups, and computer analysis of the responses obtained, it has been possible to observe separately the roles of spinal reflexes, subroutines of motor impulses from the central nervous system, and conscious voluntary control."
"The solution by Womersley of the Navier-Stokes equations for fluid flow in distensible tubes has been most useful to students of hemodynamics. However, this solution requires linearization, and, because results are obtained after transformation into the frequency domain, nonlinear or time-varying effects are not easily added. Analog, hybrid, or digital computer simulation require that difference-differential equations be obtained. This proves to be readily possible by returning to the Navier-Stokes and continuity equations, and using ordinary difference techniques in the space dimensions."
"A practical system for translation of information coded on punched paper tape to a matrix on a photograph is presented. The information here consisted of stereo random brightness fields; however, the system should be applicable to any three-dimensional information. The matrix is developed by slow digital scan of an intensity (ten levels) modulated oscilloscope and is photographed by a camera on time exposure. The system requires 166 seconds to produce each 10 000 element matrix and hence cannot be used for on-line work. However, for the researcher who can tolerate this limitation, the system's low cost, simplicity, and good resolution (better than 100 elements per inch) should prove attractive."
"Physiologically correct models of the respiratory control system require accurate knowledge of the structure and dynamics of carbon dioxide stores of the body. Several models of these stores have been investigated and the computed results compared to experiment. The effect on these models of alterations in cardiac output, regional perfusion, and tissue absorptive capacity for carbon dioxide has been examined. Experimental results are best duplicated by a five venous compartment model of carbon dioxide stores with a low absorptive capacity for carbon dioxide during the first few minutes following a change in ventilation."
"This paper is intended to introduce the reader to the technology of fishing with underwater electric fields, and describes the design of two high-power pulse generators used in electrofishing apparatus by the Connecticut State Fish and Game Department. Discussed are problems in the design of electrofishing apparatus, the behavior, and the physiological basis for the behavior of fish in electric fields."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"Prognostic analysis is a procedure for studying a broad class of multivariable dynamic physiological systems with respect to parametric changes. The technique is basically an application of sensitivity analysis and leads to a computer method for extrapolating the observed behavior of a system for a range of parametric deviations about their nominal values due to operational malfunctions."
"The deterioration of the membranes of osmium-fixed erythrocytes after washing in distilled water is demonstrated by a marked drop in membrane resistance and an increase in permeability of the cells to small solute molecules. Yet when these cells are placed in dilute salt solutions their conductivity remains high. The lower limit of the cell conductivity is presumably determined by the counterions of the fixed charges within the cell. Both the stability of the membrane and the fixed charge concentration within the cell are found to depend upon the pH of the fixing solution used for preparation of the cells."
"A unique statistical technique is described which appears to measure important interaction processes within the central nervous system (CNS). This statistic, termed ``weighted-average coherence,'' or C, is derived primarily from parameters generated in cross-spectral frequency analysis. C has the useful property, however, of summarizing a larger amount of cross-spectral information into a more manageable form. By applying C analysis to the ongoing electroencephalogram (EEG), it has been possible to define unique patterns of interaction, or ``coupling,'' between different brain areas. The total pattern of EEG coupling is taken to define a given state of functional brain organization. Moreover, since C is sensitive to changes in the EEG, it also reflects something of the dynamic properties of such brain organization."
"A multichannel telemetry system for EEG recording has been constructed for study of animal or human behavior correlates under natural, unrestrained conditions. To be useful in research of this kind, the transmitted radio signal must be independent of the environment, so that changes in antenna loading and in signal level cause no artifact. Standard IRIG proportional-bandwidth FM subcarrier channels are used. These subcarriers are generated by twin-T oscillators, modulated in turn by the amplified data signals. The FM subcarriers are then linearly summed and impressed upon a crystal-controlled AM transmitter. The system is also relatively insensitive to major shifts in supply voltage. Wherever possible, fabrication was by means of integrated circuits, thus reducing the bulk of the modules."
"An instrument is described for recording linear body scans of magnetic susceptibility in living rats. The sensor is a transformer which employs a toroid core with a large air gap. The magnetic properties of substances within the gap affect the reluctance of the core-gap magnetic circuit, thereby affecting the transformer characteristics. To minimize instability caused by temperature induced changes in core dimensions, the cores were made of the low expansion steel, Invar. The secondary voltage of the measuring transformer is compared with that of a similar reference transformer with differences in this comparison voltage processed by tuned amplification and phase-sensitive detection. The sensitivity of the instrument is limited by zero instability equivalent to ±0.06×10-6 EMU/cm3 over 30 seconds, with a precision of measurement of ±0.03×10-6 EMU/cm3 achieved by output filtering. Studies using live rats demonstrate that with this technique iron-loaded animals can be distinguished from control animals, because the high hepatic concentration of storage iron in the liver of the experimental group exhibits positive magnetic susceptibility. Consideration of the transformer characteristics suggests that similar, safe, and rapid measurements of magnetic susceptibility can be made in humans, although many other factors remain as variables which must be evaluated before such measurements can be used to quantitate iron stores in patients."
"A short appraisal is made of computerized methods utilized in the evaluation of dilution curves. Based on requirements of experimental and clinical studies, a general on-line real-time approach is proposed that increases information retrieval from standard curves. A simple, hybrid scheme tests for exponential or other declines if desired. The point for curve extrapolation is determined by the test that also controls the character of the extrapolated curve. Information obtained from the test itself can define characteristics of the decline and thereby yield insight into the character of the system itself."
"Low-frequency equalization of a digitized electrocardiographic waveform has been accomplished by adding to the waveform several of its integrals, appropriately weighted. The weighting factors required for correction of distortion produced by a particular amplifier are initially obtained from a least squares correction of its step response. Neither analysis of the amplifier circuit, nor frequency-response testing is necessary."
"A study was made to see if a single, easily-recorded electrocardiogram lead can be used-employing a crosscorrelation scheme-to screen abnormal adult ECG waveforms from normal waveforms. The study also sought to classify the abnormal waveforms into their respective disease categories. Standard lead I (the potential from left to right arm) was chosen for the study. Only the QT interval, the part of the heart cycle resulting from the electrical activity of the ventricles, was studied. In addition to ``normal'' ECG waveforms, four cardiac diseases were studied: right and left bundle branch block; and right and left ventricular hypertrophy."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"This index covers all technical items - papers, correspondence, reviews, etc. - that appeared in this periodical during the year, and items from previous years that were commented upon or corrected in this year. Departments and other items may also be covered if they have been judged to have archival value. The Author Index contains the primary entry for each item, listed under the first author's name. The primary entry includes the coauthors' names, the title of the paper or other item, and its location, specified by the publication abbreviation, year, month, and inclusive pagination. The Subject Index contains entries describing the item under all appropriate subject headings, plus the first author's name, the publication abbreviation, month, and year, and inclusive pages. Note that the item title is found only under the primary entry in the Author Index."
"This index covers all technical items - papers, correspondence, reviews, etc. - that appeared in this periodical during the year, and items from previous years that were commented upon or corrected in this year. Departments and other items may also be covered if they have been judged to have archival value. The Author Index contains the primary entry for each item, listed under the first author's name. The primary entry includes the coauthors' names, the title of the paper or other item, and its location, specified by the publication abbreviation, year, month, and inclusive pagination. The Subject Index contains entries describing the item under all appropriate subject headings, plus the first author's name, the publication abbreviation, month, and year, and inclusive pages. Note that the item title is found only under the primary entry in the Author Index."
"25 years ago, on the 7th June 1942, British electronics suffered a cruel blow. Among the many who were dying, a small party of engineers perished, but those few men enshrined some of the finest creative design talent - many would not hesitate to say genius - in the world. They had been testing a prototype of airborne radar H2S in flight, and the aircraft crashed on landing; there were no survivors. Among those killed were: G.S. Hensby, Sqdn. Ldr. R.J. Sanson, Pilot Officer C.E. Vincent, C.O. Browne, F. Blythen and Alan Dower Blumlein. Of course, it was kept quiet. British radar techniques, far in advance of those of the Axis powers, had been one of the foremost factors in saving Britain during the dark days of 1940. It was essential to keep the lead and stop any suggestion of a setback reaching the enemy intelligence. So only the bare fact of Blumlein's death was announced, with no detail at all."
"The 13th Graham Clark Lecture of the Council of Engineering Institutions was given on the 24th April 1967 at the Institution of Civil Engineers, Great George Street, London SW1. A shortened version of the lecture is given here."
"The design of the UK Radio & Space Research Station's 25 m-diameter steerable aerial at Chilbolton incorporates many special features which relate to the requirements for radiowave-propagation research."
"Electromagnetic puzzles can test one's basic knowledge of electromagnetism and lead to a better ability to deal with almost all branches of the subject. The solutions of these puzzles are given on p. 232."
"The Committee of the London Graduate & Student Section of the IEE has been following the development of the Council of Engineering Institutions and studying the possible effects on Students and Associate Members of the IEE. To help its members to keep up to date on the important changes that are taking place, the committee prepared this article on the CEI and its examinations. It is reproduced here from the June 1967 issue of the IEE Students' Quarterly Journal."
"Electricity is required by building-research workers for a variety of purposes: besides its normal use for heating, lighting and communication, it is the main source of heat and power for conducting a wide range of experiments, and is used for measuring, recording and analysing results. As electricity is used in buildings and in the construction of buildings, it is also to some extent a subject for research."
"When the London Electricity Board came into being in 1948, it inherited the responsibilities, voltages and systems of 41 separate undertakings. Now, while the demand for electricity in the area has increased three-fold, the number of non-standard a.c. and d.c. supplies has been reduced from over 750,000 to 52,000."
"For the study of radio sources - in particular the extragalactic sources which may provide the answers to some fundamental problems in physics - the method of aerial synthesis provides a practicable and economic solution to the problems of obtaining high resolving power and great sensitivity in radiotelescopes."
"The 660 MW turbine-generators ordered for the Hinkley Point B nuclear power station incorporate several significant new design features."
"The British Post Office has recently awarded contracts for the supply of 350 pulse-code-modulation systems in the British Isles."
"Without being unfair to viewers who have different tastes, television financed by a prearranged charge for each programme can provide a wide range of entertainment for a variety of audiences. The increased choice of programmes, however, creates difficulties of distribution, and the pay-television system described here overcomes this problem by the use of wired distribution."
"The first space satellite to be completely developed and built in Britain carries several important radiophysics experiments from British universities and research establishments into orbit."
"According to the 14th edition of the IEE 'Wiring regulations', an accessory may be defined as 'any device, other than a lighting fitting, associated with the wiring and current-using application, e.g. a switch, a fuse, a plug, a socket outlet, a lampholder or a ceiling rose'. There are, of course, other accessories in common use for wiring installations. Most are covered by individual British Standards; some are not. All of them call for careful design if the maximum benefit is to be derived at a reasonable capital cost."
"West London's experimental computer-controlled traffic system is expected to result in reductions in journey times over a wide area and provide information which will enable policy to be determined for future traffic-control systems throughout Britain."
"The increasing use of automatic control systems has created a demand for control engineers who have to be equally at home with several different specialist topics. By providing integrated engineering courses, the new British universities can fulfil this need and create a new generation of 'all-round' engineers."
"Efforts to ensure complete agreement between British Standards and CEE specifications are being made in all relevant fields. This article, however, concentrates on the requirements for domestic appliances, which, owing to the operation of the BEAB, are of great interest in Britain; they are also fairly representative of the other cases. Photograph (right) shows extensions in progress at the British Electricity Council Appliance Testing Laboratories, where appliances are tested for the BEAB and the area electricity boards. A new laboratory wing is in course of erection at the rear of the building."
"The annual report of the Council of Engineering Institutions covers the 12 months up to the 30th September 1966. Extracts from the report are given."
"The bulk of nuclear power in the long term must come from fast-breeder reactors, with thermal reactors providing the stockpile of plutonium for initial fuelling, until the breeding gain in the fast reactors matches the rate of increase of generating capacity."
"Owing to its low fuel-replacement costs, the nuclear station is able to show an economic improvement over the coal-fired one. Although uranium 235 costs about one million times as much per unit weight as coal, the heat energy obtainable from it is some four million times greater."
"Electrical power engineering calls many diverse technologies, and it is this width of interest that makes this part of the profession so interesting. In this summary of his IEE presidential address, Sir Stanley Brown discusses some of the range of technological problems involved in the construction of a power station."
"The Royal Radar Establishment is one of Britain's largest electronics research centres, and its activities cover a wide range-from basic physics research to advanced equipment development."
"For what is believed to be the first time on the CEGB Grid, a large turbogenerator has been fitted with modern electronic control equipment."
"The UK Ministry of Technology has recently placed contracts for the development and commercial production of a 1 MV electron microscope based on the instrument developed at the University of Cambridge."
"The engineer may be surprised to hear how much the archaeologist relies on electrical equipment for his research; but the electrical industry seems to have ignored this potential market. There must be many engineers interested in archaeology: what can be achieved by more co-operation between the disciplines?"
"A survey of the development of gas-cooled reactors for the generation of nuclear power in Britain - from the research reactors at Harwell in 1947-48 to the experimental Dragon reactor now in operation at Winfrith."
"More water-cooled reactors are being built than any other type in the world today. They include boiling-water and pressurised-water systems, moderated and cooled by ordinary water, and the Canadian CANDU reactor, in which heavy water is used as moderator and coolant. Now being commissioned, the British steam-generating heavy-water reactor combines features from many earlier types, and is expected to prove of worldwide interest."
"Lack of international agreement on the safety requirements for electrical equipment in flammable atmospheres often means that equipment has to be greatly modified when it is exported. This is both technically and economically undesirable, but steps are being taken to obtain a uniform system of specification."
"An accuracy within 1 part in 1011 can now be obtained in the measurement of time and frequency. The basis of the unit of tims which has been in use since 1958 is the caesium standard, using the atomic-beam tube; another potential standard is the hydrogen maser, and the rubidium gas cell is a good working standard."
"Nuclear reactors are characterised by high capital cost and low fuel costs. Economic solutions have been found to the particular problems imposed by radioactivity, and the pattern of future development will be aimed at reducing the cost of electricity by using larger reactors, improved components and more advanced fuels. In the late 1970s, fast reactors will burn and produce plutonium and therefore operate with very low fuel costs, but thermal reactors may well still be built in the 1980s to provide the plutonium needed for the expanding fast-reactor system."
"The advent of integrated circuits has opened up a whole new field of engineering, and has brought about completely new ways of thinking among electronic engineers. How has this revolution come about, and where will it lead?"
"Britain, like many other countries, has adopted the pilot-tone system for its stereophonic radio transmissions. This system is one which pays high regard to the mono listener, and has other important features that have led to its being chosen as the 'best buy'."
"The submillimetre-wavelength region, which has hitherto been almost devoid of coherent sources, is being attacked on two flanks. On the one hand, electron-beam devices are being pushed to frequencies previously thought unattainable, so that appreciable amounts of power can be generated at frequencies above 100GHz, and Gunn diodes operated in the l.s.a. mode have already nearly breached the submillimetre barrier; while, on the other hand, stimulated-emission techniques are being developed at ever increasing wavelengths, so that laser-type sources are available from the visible region down to submillimetre wavelengths. Lasers are normally fixed-frequency devices, but developments in nonlinear optical materials are likely to lead to tunable sources either by difference-frequency mixing or by parametric interactions."
"The Central Electricity Generating Board's 2-tier control system is being reinforced by the installation of 'district' control rooms and new area control rooms at the existing control centres, and by a new national control centre in London with computer-controlled selective electronic display. The changeover to 3-tier operation will be complete in 1968-69."
"As engineers become more involved in the study of man-machine interactions and in the development of machines to perform tasks at present performed by man and animals, they will have to learn more about biological processes. Psychological acoustics is just one topic which may attract engineers, because of its importance in speech-communication problems."
"The early history of Government-sponsored radio research in Britain is intimately associated with the National Physical Laboratory and with the Department of Scientific & Industrial Research, which was set up in 1918. Open-field amenities were soon required for wave-propagation & directional studies, and were provided on land adjoining the Admiralty Compass Observatory at Ditton Park, Slough - a site that has become world famous as the home of the Radio & Space Research Station."
"Report of the Council for the year ended the 31st March 1967 presented at the Annual General Meeting on the 18th May 1967."
"Ultrasonics has many applications in industry, and the scientific and technological tools of industry often find application in medicine. Ultrasonics is no exception. It is used at high intensities for the treatment of certain conditions, and at intermediate intensities for physiotherapy treatment. At low intensities it has a range of uses, all similar to the industrial application of nondestructive testing; all are essentially diagnostic applications."
"To meet the diverse requirements of various hospital and university departments, a modular system of construction has been devised for direct-writing recorders, whereby units can be assembled or rearranged to meet changing requirements."
"The facilities afforded by the magnetic tape-recording technique are so well known that no purpose is served by their reiteration. It may be of interest to engineers working in other spheres, however, to learn in which applications tape recording has been used to advantage in medical instrumentation."
"Fortunately, there is not yet in sight any electronic replacement for the trained nurse, despite intensive efforts by manufacturers of medical-electronics apparatus. However, electronic instrumentation has been for some time an accepted part of the equipment of surgical operating theatres and medical research laboratories, and is now becoming a familiar sight at the hospital-ward bedside."
"Statistics show that a serious situation is arising in the UK owing to the ever increasing shortage of teachers of science and mathematics. Urgent action is required if this situation is to be remedied. This article represents the views and recommendations of a working party of the CEI."
"In the last 30 years, the increase in road traffic and the rise in the number of accidents have changed the whole concept of the purpose and nature of street lighting from that of affording protection to property and person at night to that of providing means for ensuring the safe movement of both vehicular and pedestrian traffic during hours of darkness."
"Many users of expensive and complicated equipment, particularly the airlines, are faced with the problem of training the operators of this equipment; in a modern airliner, a training flight can cost £1000/h. Obviously, simulators can aid in training and familiarisation; but what factors make one simulator better than another? Recent experiments described here throw some light on the subject."
"Ideas affecting fuse protection are pouring out on a global scale. Although fuses are not any more or less difficult to make than any other article, they must be made to standards of quality and reliability consistent with their role of providing safety."
"It is usually assumed that small-scale electricity supplies for village communities in tropical undeveloped countries must necessarily be uneconomic. Experience in Sabah (North Borneo) with unattended local diesel generation suggests that this assumption may no longer be valid."
"The changes in the IEE charter and bylaws which were proposed at a Special General Meeting of corporate members of the IEE, held on the 30th June 1966, have been approved by Her Majesty's Privy Council, and came into effect from the 1st December 1966. A summary of the changes is given here; a copy of the full list of amendments is available on request from the IEE Secretary."
"'As economic models become more complex, and have a greater empirical content, to make them applicable to the real world, the answers to general questions become less possible. The economist may need, therefore, to shift his ground from the general to the particular, and to follow the methods and the experience of the engineer.'-R. G. D. Allen: `Mathematical economics' (1956)."
"Since the setting up of the joint EDA/BSI Advisory Committee on Electrical Appliances and Accessories, just after the Second World War, there have been inaugurated the BEAB and other approval schemes, and it is now feasible to think in terms of international approvals and certification. Below: the BSI Kitemark (left), and the mark of the British Electrical Approvals Board for Domestic Appliances."
"There is little doubt that, unless some radically new form of motive power emerges, the railways of the future will be operated by electricity. What forms will they take, and how will they compete with other forms of transport?"
"While science believes in truth, engineering will settle for commercial integrity. The gap between the boundaries of knowledge and what must be made and sold is filled by an engineer's experience and judgment. This is the true difference between engineering and science: a difference in philosophy."
"The latest mechanical developments and electronic control devices have been incorporated in the stabilising fins of the new Cunard liner Queen Elizabeth II."
"There has been a thousandfold increase in electronic-component packing densities overthe last few years, and this trend is expected to continue. Integrated circuitsߝthin-film, semiconductor and hybridߝare here to stay, and no one can afford to neglect this field."
"Size, cost, reliability and circuit performance are the features which determine what types of integrated circuit should be used, and what methods should be used in their manufacture."
"The increasing use of integrated circuits is beginning to have a profound effect on electronics. It is not merely a matter of modifying the same basic ideas, as was the case when transistors replaced valves: the integrated circuit is beginning to make radical changes in the thinking of design engineers. This article reviews the present status of integrated circuits from the point of view of the equipment design engineer and makes some guesses (which the author hopes are inspired) about the effect they will have in the next few years."
"The microelectronics revolution has had a tremendous impact on the educational requirements for electronics engineers. At the moment, there is a danger of overemphasis on device design, but the advent of integrated circuits means that more thought will have to be given to systems synthesis when planning courses."
"Why are there not more character-recognition machines in general use when the techniques have been known for some time? As in many fields, one of the reasons may have been too much optimism at the research stage. There is still a great deal to be learned on the subject, but the outlook for the future looks encouraging."
"Development of a completely new class of electronic device enables complete electronic functions to be carried out in a single piece of semiconductor material, and may one day lead to applications in a substitute for the cathode-ray tube in television systems."
"Tested have been successfully carried out on the first 500MW generator for the CEGB's new power station at Kingsnorth."
"Demand for electric power doubles every ten years, and economic and efficiency considerations show that the best way to obtain the extra energy lies in increasing the size of the synchronous generators in our power stations"
"The type of floodlighting described in this article, illustrated here with reference to two of London's most famous buildings, is intended to establish a visual presence by showing the building as a single entity rather than by distorting its architectural unity. Where religious edifices are concerned, the building itself will be a symbol, and subdivision in emphasis of symbolism may weaken the impact of the scene."
"The engineer can change the future of civilisation by developing machines of various kinds, ranging from machines for torturing people or killing them to machines for making life less uncomfortable for the blind or for cripples. It is therefore a grave responsibility on him to consider whether he is helping to shape a desirable future for mankind."
"The Daresbury Nuclear Physics Laboratory of the UK Science Research Council was officially opened by the Rt. Hon. Harold Wilson, Prime Minister, on the 16th June 1967."
"Research into electricity supply has to strike a balance between problems affecting the availability of generating and transmission plant, assisting the designers of the supply system of the immediate future, and basic and speculative work."
"As industrial and aerospace systems become more complex, the fundamentals of control theory are undergoing rapid changes. Modern control theory is only a few years old, but there are signs that the gap between theory and practice is closing rapidly."
"The recent open days at the Royal Aircraft Establishment, Farnborough, Hants., showed that the RAE was prepared to undertake a wide variety of research for industry."
"Although the widespread use of information systems in business may eventually fail to give the individual user significant competitive advantage, the economic benefits which will accrue to society at large will undoubtedly be enormous. The main problem is not whether information systems should be used, but how to design them and then employ the best one possible."
"Before 1950, Italy's power came almost exclusively from hydroelectric generation, but fossil-fuel stations and geothermal steam have produced an increasing percentage of power in recent years, and nuclear power has now entered the picture."
"Control concepts are likely to give increasing insight into the functions and interrelationships in living creatures in both normal and abnormal states and may well influence clinical medicine and improve diagnosis and treatment of disease. Another aspect of our knowledge of control in living systems is the ability to integrate engineering devices with biological entities."
"A controversial subject since its inception, language translation by computer comes of age in 1967. At the outset, opposing camps held either that machine translation was impossible, or that perfect translation was within easy reach. More recently, the argument has narrowed down to whether the results obtained are acceptable."
"Plessey's automation group has recently announced the development of a new series of incremental tape recorders which are expected to find use in a wide variety of applications."
"A laser machining technique recently developed at Standard Telecommunication Laboratories should enable a wide variety of circuit functions to be realised very simply in large-scale integrated-circuit form."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Provides a listing of current society officers."
"Advertisement."
"Provides a listing of current sociey officers."
"Advertisement."
"Presents recent technologies and trends in the engineering and computer industries."
"Reports on news of interest to IEEE members, including upcoming meetings and events, industry news, and recent IEEE member obituaries."
"Advertisement."
"Provides a listing of upcoming events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Advertisement."
"Provides news relating to engineering and computing industry leaders, practitioners and researchers."
"Advertisement."
"Recounts the career and contributions of IEEE members who passed away in 1967."
"Advertisement."
"Presents a biographical entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
"Optical reader systems can condense data at the rate of 650 lines per minute, using the flying-spot scanner technique. Flying-spot systems are not new, but they have been held back by component limitations. Excellent system components are now available, and FSSS is being used to convert images into electrical signals for high-speed transmission of complex scientific, business, and defense information to remotely located computers or readers. Recently, photographs of the moon were made by Orbiter I and stored on film, to be retrieved and transmitted on command to an earth receiving station by a flying-spot scanner system."
"The control of cell chemistry is being investigated through a multipronged approach combining the techniques of physics, chemistry, and biology with the development of electronic instrumentation and the application of analog and digital computers. An example of such metabolic control phenomena is provided by biological oscillators involving enzymatic reactions. These oscillators, which may exist in nearly every kind of cell and even in several forms in a single cell, reveal basic instabilities in biochemical reactions and metabolic control that may be of significance to health and disease. In addition, the high-frequency oscillations observed in simple enzyme systems may be models for the longer-period rhythms that regulate the activities of nearly all biological systems."
"A relatively new method for organizing and designing communications systems using MADA and its two variants, RADA (random-access discrete-address) and SOMADA (self-organizing multiple-access discrete-address), are described. In these systems, time and frequency are used in an organized manner. Representative designs, system implementation and selection, and reliability are examined. In general, narrow-band SOMADA is more efficient than conventional operation with respect to spectrum utilization; for larger systems, broadband RADA may be superior."
"Advertisement."
"It is the responsibility of the colleges and universities to provide the engineering student of today with a competent technical background without overemphasizing specialization. The education of the engineer should be founded on a broad-based program designed to equip the graduate with sociological insight and capability, thus providing society with a useful and cognizant citizen as well as a competent engineer."
"Power semiconductor devices have become one of the main bridges between the electrical and electronic equipment technologies. They are being used increasingly in every phase of generation, distribution, and consumption of electric power. This article surveys the various types of components, their applications, and the outlook for the future. The stress is on thyristors and silicon rectifier diodes, which exhibit electrical characteristics that are uniquely tailored to ac utility power systems."
"Beyond his own material contributions to the electrical art, Faraday's experimental approach and intuitive resolutions opened channels of inquiry into which his successors moved. Thus his bequest to society has increased in value far beyond that which he himself could have envisioned. In this article commemorating the centennial of Faraday's death, we follow him from his humble beginnings as a simple bookbinder's apprentice until he quietly passes into history at the age of 76-the leading scientist of his generation."
"Of the many combinations of heating and air conditioning systems available, only a very few are capable of providing both heating and cooling throughout the year, at the tenant's discretion. The tenant of an office building, to be comfortably satisfied, must have a pleasant environmental temperature in which to work, provided by a system that is versatile and easy to control. One of the most promising of these is all-electric, completely decentralized, and economical."
"Highlights technical articles and features presented in various current IEEE periodicals."
"A list of IEEE publications abstracted in this issue is given. The publications will be available in the near future. Only abstracts of the articles are provided herein."
"Advertisement."
"Translation of several non-English-language journals are sponsored by IEEE, Advance tables of contents of forthcoming translated issues and reviews of selected papers from recently translated issues appear here. Subscription rates and additional information are available from IEEE Subscriber Relations."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Reports on new technologies and trends in the industry."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"This brief background article on the significance of the Meiji Era (1868-1912) in Japanese history has been prepared by the IEEE Far-Eastern office, based on research conducted at the National Diet Library, Tokyo . Credit should be given also to the excellent lead article on \"Japan's Decisive Century\" in the 1967 Encyclopaedia Britannica Book of the Year, written by Shigeru Yoshida (prime-minister of Japan 1946-1954). Photographs are courtesy of the Japan Overseas Telegraph & Telephone Corp. (KDD)."
"Advertisement."
"Listing of advertisers represented in this issue."
"Advertising restricted to professional engineering and consulting services."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Provides a listing of current society officers."
"Advertisement."
"Provides a listing of current sociey officers."
"Advertisement."
"Presents recent technologies and trends in the engineering and computer industries."
"Reports on news of interest to IEEE members, including upcoming meetings and events, industry news, and recent IEEE member obituaries."
"Advertisement."
"Provides a listing of upcoming events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Advertisement."
"Provides news relating to engineering and computing industry leaders, practitioners and researchers."
"Advertisement."
"Recounts the career and contributions of IEEE members who passed away in 1967."
"Presents a biographical entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
"Whatever one may think about progress in the affairs of mankind, it cannot be denied that great things have happened in the recent past in science and technology, much of it a direct consequence of the invention and development of many different kinds of electron devices. This article speculates on future trends and developments, and the engineer's probable role."
"Modern high-speed digital computers have made possible the solution, by theoretical-numerical techniques, of many problems in electromagnetics that have traditionally been solvable only by experimental methods. Formulated in terms of integral equations, the techniques described yield answers, with an accuracy and completeness unobtainable by experimental methods, in a small fraction of the time and at much less cost than by the experimental approach. Computer programs utilizing these techniques have been developed in the areas of radiation and scattering from arbitrary wire-antenna structures, bodies of revolution, and cylindrical bodies of arbitrary cross section."
"The snob appeal of the private car-an overweight, superpowered, oversized monsterߞhas trapped the American commuter to the point at which he is willing to endure incredible traffic jams, sickening exhaust fumes, and outrageous parking charges for the privilege of traveling to and from work in exclusive style, but questionable comfort. Perhaps the term \"mass rapid transit,\" in itself, has had the unfortunate connotation of strengthening the commuter's belief that travel by such a plebeian-sounding system would somehow tend to degrade his standard of living. Nevertheless, the acceptance of mass rapid transit may be the only short-term solution to the concrete invasion of superexpressways into the heart of our major cities. Meanwhile, there has been no scarcity of ideas and proposals for both conventional and \"far out\" mass transit solutions. In fact, the entire subject has already been researched to exhaustion by technical committees, transportation expertsߞand collegiate science majors. Now it is time to implement the practical ideas by tangible action."
"Advertisement."
"The total consumption of energy in the United States in the year 1980 is expected to be equivalent to 93 × 1018 joules or 63 percent greater than in 1965. Coal consumption in 1980 is projected at 612-677 million tonnes, natural gas at 696 000 million cubic meters, and petroleum products demand at 899 million tonnes. Nuclear power generation will be 723 million MWh; conventional fuel-burning plants will provide up to 1941 million MWh of energy."
"The thrust of this article is this: There is a need now, more than ever before, for men to stretch their capacities in what we shall call evolutionary skills. Moreover, it is at last becoming possible technologically to enhance these skills in man by incorporating somewhat similar evolutionary skills in the machines which we design and build. However, if engineers are to develop machines with evolutionary capabilities, they will need to restructure their own way of thinking, throw out traditional ways of thinking, and find their way, through playing with evolutionary design techniques, into an ever-deepening understanding of the significance of such techniques. They must bootstrap themselves into a new kind of ``think,'' into a new climate of man-machine interaction, in which men evolve intelligent machines and intelligent machines evolve men. This new kind of think is what this article tries to unfold in an effort to spur lively support for the evolutionary direction."
"A simple model of communications capability projected for the mid-1970s is formulated. The spectral dependence of the future state of the art is examined in terms of antennas, noise, diffraction effects, etc. The model suggests that the frequency spectrum in the vicinity of 1010 Hz would allow maximum information transfer and that radio-frequency techniques may be superior to the laser."
"The ability to predict the nature of physics in great detail depends upon the ultimate capabilities of information processing systems. Computing must be carried out in real systems, subject to physical laws. Thus an intertwining between the ultimate versions of the laws of physics and the computer is created. In order to satisfy this ``want ad'' for a unified theory, two conditions must be met: The type of information processing required in the study of physics must be recognized; and the physical laws governing information processing must be defined."
"Highlights technical articles and features presented in various current IEEE periodicals."
"A list of IEEE publications abstracted in this issue is given. The publications will be available in the near future. Only abstracts of the articles are provided herein."
"Advertisement."
"Translation of several non-English-language journals are sponsored by IEEE, Advance tables of contents of forthcoming translated issues and reviews of selected papers from recently translated issues appear here. Subscription rates and additional information are available from IEEE Subscriber Relations."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Reports on new technologies and trends in the industry."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Listing of advertisers represented in this issue."
"Advertising restricted to professional engineering and consulting services."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Provides a listing of current society officers."
"Advertisement: AIRBORNE INSTRUMENTS LABORATORY DEER PARK, LONG ISLAND, NEW YORK. When an opportunity arises to show that people who work in our kind of business are civic-minded or artistic and generally a broad-gauged group of humans, we are stimulated to do something about letting the world know about it. A short time ago AIL staff members held an art exhibition where the entries were so good that it made us very glad to see such talent. We know that many other companies in this business also have people of great talent on their staffs, where the talent is not only in the field in which they work, but is also spread over many other fields as well. This sort of person is what the world needs. Just to stimulate your thinking along these lines, we reproduce in this ad some of the prize winners in AlL's exhibition. A complete bound set of our eleventh series of articles is available on request. Write to Harold Hechtman at AIL for your set."
"Advertisement."
"Provides a listing of current society officers."
"Presents recent technologies and trends in the engineering and computer industries."
"Readers are invited to comment in this department on material previously published in IEEE Spectrum; on the policies and operations of the IEEE; and on technical, economic, or social matters of interest to the electrical and electronics engineering profession. Short, concise letters are preferred. The Editor reserves the right to limit debate on controversial issues."
"Advertisement."
"Reports on news of interest to IEEE members, including upcoming meetings and events, industry news, and recent IEEE member obituaries."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Provides a listing of upcoming events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Advertisement."
"Provides news relating to engineering and computing industry leaders, practitioners and researchers."
"Advertisement."
"Recounts the career and contributions of IEEE members who passed away in 1967."
"Presents a biographical entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
"Sound waves can modulate light in amplitude and phase, deflect it, focus it, or shift its frequency. Light can render acoustic images visible or provide detailed information on the thermal vibrations in solids and liquids. Diffraction of light waves by sound waves takes several different forms, depending on the two wavelengths and the dimensions of the interaction region. An analysis and description of these different forms is given, followed by a detailed discussion of a wide variety of applications, including signal processing devices, spectrum analyzers, television displays, image translators, memories, and the conversion of light into sound."
"In a field in which success is a matter of record some constructive criticism is in order to spur even greater and more meaningful progress. In this vein the present article highlights shortcomings and limitations in the burgeoning area of solid-state technology. One of the main problems is that practice so often outdistances fundamental theory and understanding. Thus it is important that we be able to predict the growth and changes in the technology, but unfortunately our techniques of analysis, simulation, and measurement are inadequate and the number of theoretical limits pitifully small. Undoubtedly, more effort is essential."
"Advertisement."
"Recent research on semiconductors that exhibit bulk negative resistivity has led to new devices for pulse regeneration, logic function generation, amplification, and millimeter-wave power generation. These are bulk devices in the sense that ac gain is derived from the bulk negative-resistance property of certain uniform semiconductors, rather than from the properties of junctions between different types of semiconductors. Bulk devices are capable of operating with more power at higher speeds and frequencies than conventional junction devices such as transistors."
"The character of our American society has changed slowly over the past 50 to 100 years, but peoples' aspirations, both in the United States and abroad, have changed abruptly in just the last 5 to 10 years and are still constantly changing. We haven't seen anything yet; mankind's aspirations are going to soar to new heights. Furthermore, technology provides the power with which society can meet these new, higher aspirations, if we but put our minds to it. Whether we can, in 5 years, or 50, or 100, attain such social goals as eliminating poverty, disease, and ignorance from the United States and spreading literacy, freedom, and governmental stability throughout the now less-developed areas of the world rests chiefly on social decisions. These social decisions must be made soon. To make them intelligently- in fact, to make any decisions at all-will require new patterns of industry-government partnership."
"One important phase of a comprehensive study by the Science and Technology Task Force to determine ways in which science and technology can be applied more effectively to the criminal justice system in the United States has involved the investigation of police communications. Attention has been focused on the problems existing in the major population centers, where message traffic density is high, frequency spectrum crowding is severe, and large numbers of independent networks exist within relatively small geographical areas. This article describes the findings of the investigations and offers some recommendations for solving a number of these problems."
"Advertisement."
"Highlights technical articles and features presented in various current IEEE periodicals."
"A list of IEEE publications abstracted in this issue is given. The publications will be available in the near future. Only abstracts of the articles are provided herein."
"Advertisement."
"Translation of several non-English-language journals are sponsored by IEEE, Advance tables of contents of forthcoming translated issues and reviews of selected papers from recently translated issues appear here. Subscription rates and additional information are available from IEEE Subscriber Relations."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Reports on new technologies and trends in the industry."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Listing of advertisers represented in this issue."
"Advertising restricted to professional engineering and consulting services."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Provides a listing of current society officers."
"Advertisement."
"Provides a listing of current society officers."
"Advertisement."
"Presents recent technologies and trends in the engineering and computer industries."
"Advertisement."
"Readers are invited to comment in this department on material previously published in IEEE Spectrum; on the policies and operations of the IEEE; and on technical, economic, or social matters of interest to the electrical and electronics engineering profession. Short, concise letters are preferred. The Editor reserves the right to limit debate on controversial issues."
"Advertisement."
"Reports on news of interest to IEEE members, including upcoming meetings and events, industry news, and recent IEEE member obituaries."
"Advertisement."
"Provides a listing of upcoming events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Advertisement."
"Provides news relating to engineering and computing industry leaders, practitioners and researchers."
"Advertisement."
"Recounts the career and contributions of IEEE members who passed away in 1967."
"Presents a biographical entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
"Presents the President's message for this issue of the publication."
"In terms of speed and speed/power performance, bipolar integrated circuits are superior to metal-oxide-semiconductor integrated circuits. This superiority is based on the high transconductance inherent in bipolar transistors and is technology-independent. For the MOS case, transconductance is highly technology-dependent, and hence the performance difference will probably diminish in the future. Comparisons of the two technologies in their mid-1966 forms are made; the bipolar performance advantage in most cases is between 10 and 100. MOS integrated circuits have an area-per-function advantage ratio of about 5 for equivalent-function circuits, but a ratio of between 5 and 10 when circuits exploiting the unique MOS properties are considered. In addition, MOS processing is simpler than bipolar processing by approximately 40 percent."
"The broad area of MHD power generation is surveyed in this article, with emphasis on its application to central stations. Following a brief discussion of the MHD principle, three types of combined power plants are described: the coal-burning MHD-steam power plant, the noble-gas MHD generator with a nuclear heat source, and the liquid-metal MHD generator. Design problems and operating characteristics are presented, together with possible advantages and problem areas."
"The laser has been found useful for short-distance communication or for communication across the macrodimensions of space. Two short-distance voice-communication systems are described-one requiring careful boresight alignment and the other involving a megaphone-like broad-beam laser that needs little alignment. A laser range-measuring system has been developed that can make distance checks for aircraft refueling or for measuring the altitude of spacecraft landing on the moon. The principles of ranging can also be applied to selective viewing, maintaining a separation of vehicles moving along a set path, or selectively counting certain-sized objects. The laser also can be used in a simple intrusion alarm since its narrow beam can be reflected over a very long distance with little spreading."
"Advertisement."
"Most of the universe runs along perfectly well without the need of speech for command and control. Why, then, does man need speech? How did he acquire speech? Can it be optimized? What is the future of this form of communication? These questions were put to a group of men who have done distinguished work in diverse fields relevant to speech. Their provocative discussions, reported here, do not add up to a definitive or overall unified theoretical structure such as scientists love to build; nor could they at this stage. Certainly, for those who look closely at speech and language there is no question that the subject is mysterious and complex. It may be that language is mysterious because it is too close to us, too deeply imbedded in the inherited structure of the human organism for us to \"see\" it. However it is, there is no doubt that many of the questions and ideas raised here belong in the vortex of concerns of all those who are interested in human communications.ߞN.L."
"Solid-state delay lines operating at microwave frequencies can provide many advantages over conventional delay techniques. These devices use sound waves or magnetic spin waves to obtain fixed, variable, or dispersive behavior. The size and weight of electromagnetic delay lines, together with inherent high cable loss, are avoided with solid-state units. Pulse compression filters with bandwidths of several hundred MHz have been constructed, and the future promises even greater capabilities."
"Highlights technical articles and features presented in various current IEEE periodicals."
"Advertisement."
"A list of IEEE publications abstracted in this issue is given. The publications will be available in the near future. Only abstracts of the articles are provided herein."
"Advertisement."
"Translation of several non-English-language journals are sponsored by IEEE, Advance tables of contents of forthcoming translated issues and reviews of selected papers from recently translated issues appear here. Subscription rates and additional information are available from IEEE Subscriber Relations."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement of available employment opportunities."
"Reports on new technologies and trends in the industry."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Listing of advertisers represented in this issue."
"Advertising restricted to professional engineering and consulting services."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Provides a listing of current society officers."
"Advertisement."
"Provides a listing of current sociey officers."
"Advertisement."
"Presents recent technologies and trends in the engineering and computer industries."
"Readers are invited to comment in this department on material previously published in IEEE Spectrum; on the policies and operations of the IEEE; and on technical, economic, or social matters of interest to the electrical and electronics engineering profession. Short, concise letters are preferred. The Editor reserves the right to limit debate on controversial issues."
"Advertisement."
"Reports on news of interest to IEEE members, including upcoming meetings and events, industry news, and recent IEEE member obituaries."
"Advertisement."
"Provides a listing of upcoming events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Advertisement."
"Provides news relating to engineering and computing industry leaders, practitioners and researchers."
"Advertisement."
"Recounts the career and contributions of IEEE members who passed away in 1967."
"Advertisement."
"Presents a biographical entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
"The operational Intelsat I (Early Bird) and Intelsat II satellites and associated earth stations that comprise the present commercial satellite communications system provide a capacity of close to 720 voice circuits between major earth stations. All but a limited portion of the inhabited globe is now within the line of sight of a commercial satellite relay. In addition, it is expected that by 1968, with the operation of Intelsat III, a truly global international satellite communications system will exist."
"The engineer, trained to evaluate hard facts objectively, is becoming increasingly involved in interpersonal and intersocial situations. As he advances toward managerial responsibilities, he must communicate with and administer personnel. Additionally, society is demanding that the engineer-scientist pause and evaluate the effects of the scientific disciplines upon the world at large. Frequently, the engineer belatedly discovers that he possesses neither the formal training nor the practical insight necessary to approach these problems effectively."
"As of the present moment, the slowest process in computer technology is data preparation and the input operation. Among the proposed solutions to this problem are direct-reading handprinting input devices that boast of at least 95 percent accuracy. Character recognition is accomplished by means of linear decision functions, which are designed using an adaptive procedure. This technique allows flexibility in the character set, and the system may be tailored to a variety of users. The only drawback to widespread use is the present lack of economically feasible applications."
"In the broad sense the term ``quantum electronics'' relates to the motion of electrons as governed by quantum mechanical laws, but used more specifically it refers to electronic processes involving transitions between discrete energy levels. The latter category includes the laser, and it is to this development, which is responsible for most of the new horizons in the field, that this article is primarily devoted. Two specific examples are described: a tunable light oscillator and an intense-light-pulse generator. It is pointed out that, despite their promise, the ultimate impact of the laser devices on industrial technology cannot be predicted."
"Advertisement."
"Three-wire cryoelectric memory cells and the hybrid AB system organization that utilizes coincident-current selection are examined from the standpoint of batch fabrication requirements, redundancy, electrical parameters, tolerances, and noise immunity. These advances, demonstrated with experimental sub-systems, are described in relation to previous work, and are shown to place cryoelectrics as a strong contender for achieving systems with capacities of more than 108 bits."
"One of the formidable problems addressed by diagnostic engineering is to develop a means for verifying the design of a sophisticated system having over 100 000 interconnected logical circuits. After the system is designed, built, and tested, there is still the problem of maintaining it in good working order. The optimum strategy for testing, detecting, and isolating malfunctions must be found. Perhaps the most important problem is how to design a system in such a way that it can be tested automatically, so that errors can be detected and isolated in a reasonably optimum manner."
"Because of economic, system expansion, and air pollution considerations, the committed capacity of nuclear installations in the United States has risen from 3500 MW to approximately 16 000 MW in the past two years. The factors that should be considered in the integration of nuclear energy into a utility system are examined in this article. These include site location and size, scheduling, authorization, public relations, and personnel training. For a typical plant, it is estimated that some 90 man-years are required for personnel training."
"Highlights technical articles and features presented in various current IEEE periodicals."
"A list of IEEE publications abstracted in this issue is given. The publications will be available in the near future. Only abstracts of the articles are provided herein."
"Advertisement."
"Translation of several non-English-language journals are sponsored by IEEE, Advance tables of contents of forthcoming translated issues and reviews of selected papers from recently translated issues appear here. Subscription rates and additional information are available from IEEE Subscriber Relations."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Reports on new technologies and trends in the industry."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Listing of advertisers represented in this issue."
"Advertising restricted to professional engineering and consulting services."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Provides a listing of current society officers."
"Advertisement."
"Presents recent technologies and trends in the engineering and computer industries."
"Advertisement."
"Reports on news of interest to IEEE members, including upcoming meetings and events, industry news, and recent IEEE member obituaries."
"Advertisement."
"Provides a listing of upcoming events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Advertisement."
"Provides news relating to engineering and computing industry leaders, practitioners and researchers."
"Advertisement."
"Recounts the career and contributions of IEEE members who passed away in 1967."
"Presents a biographical entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
"Random sampling methods are valuable not only for providing solutions to problems involving probability but also for solving many problems that are deterministic in nature. Haphazard generation of numbers has several serious disadvantages, since the numbers used in the computation cannot be reproduced and thus rational ``debugging'' procedures cannot be developed. Over the past 20 years there has been a strong emphasis on arithmetic generators, which are based on recurrence relations involving integers."
"On April 8, 1965, President Johnson ordered the establishment of a Commission to study the U.S. patent system in all of its aspects and to recommend legislation that would improve its service to society. The membership of the Commission was announced on July 23, 1965, and comprised 14 representatives of important areas affected by the patent system: science and engineering, large and small business, universities, patent attorneys, the judiciary, the National Science Foundation and the Departments of Commerce and Defense. Other government agencies were represented by observers. In its report, the Commission made 35 recommendations, some of which, if adopted, will represent the first major changes in our patent system since 1836. In this article one of the Commission members, the IEEE Secretary, presents some of the highlights of the Commission's report."
"Modern science is eliminating the old, unrealistic approach to experimental errors. The Heisenberg principle of uncertainty has effected a fundamental change in the scientific attitude toward experimental errors and toward the degree of exactness in stating physical laws. Quantum physics has brought about the realization that a measurement or a mere observation at the quantum level perturbs the observed system in such a way that corrections cannot be made for the ``loading'' effect of the measuring instrument. There is something more basic and fundamental to our limitations in measurements than the lack of perfection in experimental planning and equipment. This article examines the types of uncertainty in measurements or observations. The interest then focuses on the fundamental importance of the relation between experimental uncertainty in measuring, observing, or in any way identifying a physical quantity, and the energy required to accomplish this in a certain allotted interval of time. This last relation has a direct bearing on the speed limitations of measurements."
"Advertisement."
"In 1965, 507 billion kWh of electricity was produced in the Soviet Union, and the total generating capacity of its power stations reached 114 000 MW. The total length of transmission lines, with voltages of 35 kV and higher, ran to 312 000 km. The capacity of the European power interconnections of the U.S.S.R. exceeded 68 000 MW in March 1966. The control of the power industry is centralized under the Ministry of Power and Electrificiation of the U.S.S.R. Ninety-four percent of its electric energy is generated at power stations that are part of interconnected systems. Thermal stations predominate; their generating capacity accounts for 77 percent of the total installed generation. Hydroelectric plants represent 22 percent of the total capacity and 18 percent of the total output. About one percent of the total power production is from nuclear plants. Thirty-six percent of the thermal plants are equipped to transmit heat energy as well as electric power."
"Experiments in binaural listening show that the two ears provide almost independent effects on the brain-namely, a sound message confined entirely to one ear does not interfere appreciably with a sound message confined entirely to the other ear. A result of this independence is that harmony, in a restricted sense, between binaurally heard tones does not exist. This fact might be used to create new effects in two-part music. In the most general sense, the experiments described in this article show that any two messages- whether in music, in words, or in symbols-can be separated more easily by the brain when the messages are heard binaurally, a finding that raises certain interesting implications."
"The advantages of the electronic medium and those of a simple congruent instrument keyboard have been combined to produce the Binary Touchboard described in this article. Basically, it operates by translating a finger touch into a switching signal that activates a note-sounding device. The simplified fingering is especially advantageous in such areas as atonal music, jazz, and what might be characterized as ``spatial music.''"
"Modern technology has posed a special dilemma for today's professional, who is confronted by rapid change in both the body of knowledge he must use and the needs and expectations of the society that he must serve. The resulting problem for professional education-to ascertain the proper balance between science and art in training for a profession-is considered in this article."
"Advertisement."
"Highlights technical articles and features presented in various current IEEE periodicals."
"A list of IEEE publications abstracted in this issue is given. The publications will be available in the near future. Only abstracts of the articles are provided herein."
"Advertisement."
"Translation of several non-English-language journals are sponsored by IEEE, Advance tables of contents of forthcoming translated issues and reviews of selected papers from recently translated issues appear here. Subscription rates and additional information are available from IEEE Subscriber Relations."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Reports on new technologies and trends in the industry."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Listing of advertisers represented in this issue."
"Advertising restricted to professional engineering and consulting services."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Provides a listing of current society officers."
"Advertisement."
"Provides a listing of current society officers."
"Advertisement."
"Presents recent technologies and trends in the engineering and computer industries."
"Readers are invited to comment in this department on material previously published in IEEE Spectrum; on the policies and operations of the IEEE; and on technical, economic, or social matters of interest to the electrical and electronics engineering profession. Short, concise letters are preferred. The Editor reserves the right to limit debate on controversial issues."
"Advertisement."
"Reports on news of interest to IEEE members, including upcoming meetings and events, industry news, and recent IEEE member obituaries."
"Advertisement."
"Provides a listing of upcoming events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Advertisement."
"Provides news relating to engineering and computing industry leaders, practitioners and researchers."
"Advertisement."
"Recounts the career and contributions of IEEE members who passed away in 1967."
"Advertisement."
"Presents a biographical entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
"As outlined in a recent issue of IEEE Spectrum (June 1966, pp. 59-68), it was hoped that last summer's meeting of the CCIR in Oslo would result in the recommendation of a single color television system for adoption throughout Europe and other parts of the world. However, such a recommendation was not forthcoming, chiefly because no one of the systems considered is overwhelmingly superior to the others from the point of view of performance or cost. This article describes the similarities and differences between the various systems proposed and points out the manufacturing alternatives should a multiplicity of standards eventually be adopted."
"As can be seen from the preceding article, color television standards-and the repeated failures to arrive at a single standard-have been for years the concern of many experts in the fields of electronics, finance, and politics. One undisciplined representative of the electronics discipline (who, we hasten to add, has written a number of more esoteric articles on color television) has decided that the time is finally ripe to tell the true story."
"Their many new, imaginative applications have led to the development of lasers with power outputs exceeding the ability of the laser materials to withstand damage for more than a few shots. The apparent necessary remedial steps would be to learn how to increase damage threshold and to determine how to improve laser parameters that will not degrade life. This article discusses how high power is attained in a laser system and it reviews the data on laser performance to establish the principal causes of failure and to determine how to rectify them. An integral part of the analysis is a detailed treatment of the measurement and interpretation of luminance."
"The lower radio frequencies are used in worldwide communications to a greater extent than is generally realized. This article discusses the almost-forgotten radio world that exists on frequencies below the United States' standard AM broadcast band. The information is based on personal observations in Huntsville, Ala., of stations in the low-frequency spectrum."
"We, as a nation, have emerged. The education to maintain and expand our society is available to all. The new challenge to the unique, the intelligent, the eager, and the ambitious is to explore the frontiers of knowledge, discover the magnificence of the order of nature, and then to apply this accrued wisdom to the creation of a new and better life for our whole society. The engineering school must stimulate and challenge its select students to explore and solve our great sociotechnological problems. It must not merely train its young men to maintain the present; it must do what others cannot in using the strength of its unique students and our pioneering heritage to provide this nation with that elite body of men who have always sought the way to a better life. It must supply society with sociotechnological explorer-leaders."
"Advertisement."
"Because of the increasingly pressing problem of spectrum overcrowding in data transmission channels, it is becoming more and more necessary to develop schemes to optimize the use of the available frequencies. The Proceedings of the IEEE is devoting its March issue to the subject of ``Redundancy Reduction and Bandwidth Saving.'' This article, timed to coincide with the Proceedings issue, briefly describes some of the salient features of the various approaches to redundancy reduction."
"There are more and deeper issues involved in the notational question in computer programming than are covered in the usual easy antitheses between natural sloppiness and formal precision. This article argues that it is far from clear that a formalism patterned on mathematical notation is the answer to any burning problem in practical programming. In arguing the case for natural language, it is often as necessary to take issue with those favoring the cause as with those opposed to it, for the natural-language ``party,'' also, has been guilty of perpetuating invalid ideas. Thus, this article attempts to lay the groundwork for more useful exchanges between the formalist and natural-language schools."
"Highlights technical articles and features presented in various current IEEE periodicals."
"A list of IEEE publications abstracted in this issue is given. The publications will be available in the near future. Only abstracts of the articles are provided herein."
"Advertisement."
"Translation of several non-English-language journals are sponsored by IEEE, Advance tables of contents of forthcoming translated issues and reviews of selected papers from recently translated issues appear here. Subscription rates and additional information are available from IEEE Subscriber Relations."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Reports on new technologies and trends in the industry."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Listing of advertisers represented in this issue."
"Advertising restricted to professional engineering and consulting services."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Provides a listing of current society officers."
"Advertisement."
"Provides a listing of current sociey officers."
"Advertisement."
"Presents recent technologies and trends in the engineering and computer industries."
"Advertisement."
"Readers are invited to comment in this department on material previously published in IEEE Spectrum; on the policies and operations of the IEEE; and on technical, economic, or social matters of interest to the electrical and electronics engineering profession. Short, concise letters are preferred. The Editor reserves the right to limit debate on controversial issues."
"Advertisement."
"Reports on news of interest to IEEE members, including upcoming meetings and events, industry news, and recent IEEE member obituaries."
"Advertisement."
"Provides a listing of upcoming events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Advertisement."
"Provides news relating to engineering and computing industry leaders, practitioners and researchers."
"Advertisement."
"Recounts the career and contributions of IEEE members who passed away in 1967."
"Presents a biographical entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
"The forces of hurricanes, tornadoes, and typhoons exceed the energy of many thousands of atomic bombs. Only a fraction of this force, however, actually extends down to the earth's surface. A practical upper limit of maximum wind velocity at ground level due to storms is 200 mi/h (320 km/h). Most power lines ara built today to withstand less than that. Without increasing the amount of metal in the tower and thus the cost of material, it is possible to make the power line more wind resistant by applying streamlining concets to the design of the structural elements, including the conductors. There are several appraches to this problem that can be adapted to existing structures. A French patent suggests the use of a hose around an aerial conductor that turns to adjust its airfoil shape correctly to the prevailing wind. This is also adaptable to vertical members in the supporting tower. The proposed use of flaglike tapes or small fringed plastic threads that wrap around a conductor or angle iron to streamline it, regardless of wind direction, is another solution to this problem."
"Through the careful integration of commerce and industry within the urban residential area, the ideal new city-designed to accommodate a population of up to 200 000 people-should have adequate provision for low-income, middle-income, and luxury housing. Cultural facilities would be concentrated in community centers, and the thoughtful distribution of specialty shops and commercial offices would prevent an oversaturation of similar commodities and services. Scientifically planned public utilities services (water, electricity, and gas) will allow for future industrial expansion and growth. Planned traffic control and adequate parking facilities for today and tomorrow will be a salient feature. The design of such a city would differ radically from the conventional ``blockbuster'' techniques for urban renewal, in which an area is leveled by bulldozers, and slums are almost entirely replaced by luxury apartments."
"Advertisement."
"Electroluminescence can occur as a result of the application of a direct current at a low voltage to a suitably doped crystal containing a p-n junction. It has become apparent in recent years that in certain materials (such as gallium arsenide) and under certain conditions, the efficiency of conversion of electric energy into light can be remarkably high. Since these semiconductor light sources operate at low voltages and low currents and can be made very small, they appear attractive for use in small optical displays. Because they can be switched very rapidly and have fairly monochromatic emission properties, their applications for data transmission are also promising."
"In densely populated areas the number and power of television transmitters in the VHF band are beginning to pose a serious problem of mutual interference. In view of this, and of the need to leave the radio spectrum free for communication circuits for which it is a necessity, it is pertinent at this time to review the possibilities of systems designed for broadcasting by wire. What has been achieved in Great Britain, where wired broadcasting is seriously competing with conventional systems, is described. The requirements, and advantages, of a wired network are examined, and a comparison is made with CATV systems."
"Since the end of World War II, the installed generated capacity in Japan has increased at an average annual rate of 10.7 percent. In March 1966 it totaled almost 35 000 MW, and by 1975, the total system capacity should reach about 84 000 MW. A 500-kV transmission system and 600-MW turbine generators are to be put into operation in the near future. An MHD plant of 1-MW capacity is to be completed in the 1970s. Automation of dispatching systems and computer application are rapidly increasing. Economic load dispatching, system protection, teletransmission, supervisory control, fault location, and high-voltage insulation design are areas of considerable interest and activity in Japan today."
"Advertisement."
"Highlights technical articles and features presented in various current IEEE periodicals."
"A list of IEEE publications abstracted in this issue is given. The publications will be available in the near future. Only abstracts of the articles are provided herein."
"Advertisement."
"Translation of several non-English-language journals are sponsored by IEEE, Advance tables of contents of forthcoming translated issues and reviews of selected papers from recently translated issues appear here. Subscription rates and additional information are available from IEEE Subscriber Relations."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Reports on new technologies and trends in the industry."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Listing of advertisers represented in this issue."
"Advertising restricted to professional engineering and consulting services."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Provides a listing of current society officers."
"Advertisement."
"Provides a listing of current society officers."
"Advertisement."
"Presents recent technologies and trends in the engineering and computer industries."
"Reports on news of interest to IEEE members, including upcoming meetings and events, industry news, and recent IEEE member obituaries."
"Advertisement."
"Provides a listing of upcoming events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Advertisement."
"Provides news relating to engineering and computing industry leaders, practitioners and researchers."
"Advertisement."
"Recounts the career and contributions of IEEE members who passed away in 1967."
"Presents a biographical entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
"One of the most dramatic recent developments in optical technology is the laser gyro, which combines the properties of the optical oscillator, the laser, and general relativity to produce an integrating rate gyroscope. This gyro measures rotation in inertial space, but does not use a spinning mass as conventional gyros do. Because of the absence of spinning mass, the gyro's performance is not affected by accelerations; and it can sense very high rates with great accuracy. Other important advantages of the laser gyro are lack of special cooling, low power consumption, and simplicity of construction."
"In this discussion, which was originally presented at the Fifth International Television Symposium, the author, in his role as prophet, suggests at the outset that the concept of such a meeting may be doomed for obsolescence; a more apt name for the next symposium might well be the First International Information Conference. He points out that a unified system of electronic communications media, combined with a data processing system built around the computer, may well be the principal information source of the future. Viewed in such a context, tomorrow's television techniques promise many benefits, both for the industry and for the consumer."
"A vexing problem in electromagnetic compatibility is the effective filtering of conducted interference from power-supply lines. Because of unavoidable and severe mismatch, conventional suppression filters operate only conditionally; such filters are often so large they are omitted from the system. Three new classes of power-line filters without these limitations are described. They are active, truly lossy, and ruggedized ceramic filters, covering the frequency range from direct current to microwaves. Present filter test methods are shown to be misleading and are replaced by a rather simple, realistic test."
"Advertisement."
"The Atomic Energy Commission is playing an active advisory role in the design, development, and operation of civilian nuclear power plants in the United States. The trend toward larger plant capacities is proceeding at a phenomenal rate and an increasingly significant portion of the new electric generating capacity in the United States is being committed to nuclear power. The utilities' acceptance of light-water reactors has served to speed the progress of advanced reactor projects. At present, the sodium-cooled liquid-metal fast breeder reactor (LMFBR) represents the AEC's highest-priority program."
"The relatively short distances to be spanned in using the manipulators presently available permit real-time control systems, frequently employing direct linkages. The advent of space flight necessitates the design of manipulation systems that can perform complicated tasks, on the moon and beyond, upon command from earth. Such a design must compensate for the communications time delay due to the distances involved and also for a difference in environment not directly observable by the human operator. The answer to the problem seems to lie in a computer-controlled remote unit, capable of making limited decisions of its own but supervised from home base."
"Digital computers are now being used to produce musical sounds and to generate artistic visual images. The artist or composer interacts directly with the computer through a console. This article explores the possibilities of the computer as an artistic medium and makes some predictions about the art of the future."
"The scanning electron microscope combines the techniques of the cathode-ray tube and the conventional electron microscope-both considered indispensable to modern technology. The SEM, which presents a picture having a distinct three-dimensional appearance, is finding application in the examination of wood fibers in connection with paper manufacture, of surfaces undergoing ionic bombardment, and of corrosion. At the present time, one of the most pressing problems is to reduce its total cost."
"Advertisement."
"Highlights technical articles and features presented in various current IEEE periodicals."
"A list of IEEE publications abstracted in this issue is given. The publications will be available in the near future. Only abstracts of the articles are provided herein."
"Advertisement."
"Translation of several non-English-language journals are sponsored by IEEE, Advance tables of contents of forthcoming translated issues and reviews of selected papers from recently translated issues appear here. Subscription rates and additional information are available from IEEE Subscriber Relations."
"Reports on new technologies and trends in the industry."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Listing of advertisers represented in this issue."
"Advertising restricted to professional engineering and consulting services."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Provides a listing of current society officers."
"Provides a listing of current society officers."
"Presents recent technologies and trends in the engineering and computer industries."
"Readers are invited to comment in this department on material previously published in IEEE Spectrum; on the policies and operations of the IEEE; and on technical, economic, or social matters of interest to the electrical and electronics engineering profession. Short, concise letters are preferred. The Editor reserves the right to limit debate on controversial issues."
"Advertisement."
"Reports on news of interest to IEEE members, including upcoming meetings and events, industry news, and recent IEEE member obituaries."
"Advertisement."
"Provides a listing of upcoming events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Advertisement."
"Provides news relating to engineering and computing industry leaders, practitioners and researchers."
"Advertisement."
"Recounts the career and contributions of IEEE members who passed away in 1967."
"Presents a biographical entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
"Because of the electromagnetic properties of seawater, very-low-frequency communication systems are used, Surface-to-submarine, submarine-to-surface, and submarine-to-submarine propagation, as well as antennas and noise, are considered. It is shown that seawater is a good conductor and that atmospheric noise is generally more of a problem in sea communications than thermal noise. Communication ranges are limited by the effects of depth attenuation and atmospheric noise. Ranges in the tens of kilometers are possible for antennas within 5 meters of the surface; bandwidth must be less than 1 Hz and tens of kilowatts of power are required."
"A new philosophy for the analysis and design of large electric power interconnections has evolved following the Northeast power failure of November 9, 1965. Most contingencies that can cause wide-spread outages occur too infrequently to be included in the criteria for system design. Nevertheless, systems should be tested for combinations of events that cause system instability and separation so that the consequences of these unlikely occurrences can be evaluated and system designers can provide disaster control procedures to limit the extent and duration of system outages. The design and disaster control procedures should provide successive lines of defense against increasingly severe and unlikely events. Disaster control procedures can be coordinated so that governor action, load shedding, and system separation can be integrated according to time and frequency in such a way that maximum reliability and security will be provided."
"Before 1920 it was known that radio waves produce echoes. The phenomenon was used to verify the existence of the ionosphere and to determine the height of its various layers by measuring the time required for a radio signal, reflected as an echo, to return to the ground. In the early 1930s, scientific researchers in the United States and in Europe demonstrated that radio signals striking ships and aircraft would produce radio echoes that could be used to pinpoint their location. But it was not until the advent of World War II in 1939 that the United States Navy, in co-operation with the other armed services and civilian scientific groups, began a concerted effort toward the development of electronic devices with significant applications in fire control, navigation, and search capabilities. The sneak attack by the Jpanese on Pearl Harbor greatly accelerated and intensified the Navy's R&D program."
"Advertisement."
"Following a review of terms used in information theory, conventional communications systems are examined. Functional models that lead to a statistical impulse generator are developed for a neuron and a fish. The problems of information generation, reduction, and storage in man are considered. The concept of bidirectional communication is advanced where the receiver as well as the transmitter is active and the theory of bidirectional communication is shown to be a generalization of Shannon's information theory."
"The November issue of the Proceedings of the IEEE will be a special issue on computer-aided design, consisting of many papers on specialized aspects of this growing field. To put the new development in proper perspective, this article examines just what it is that justifies all the excitement. It discusses the nature of the engineering design process, man-computer systems, both passive and active computer graphics, nongraphic applications, and problems of computer technology, and points out for engineers the importance of computer-aided design for the future."
"In early September an international conference was held in Washington, D.C., to assess the rapidly changing and vigorous interaction between the engineering sciences and biology and medicine. Leaders from these fields discussed ways and means of broadening the scientific base for the biomedical field, expressed their dissatisfactions with present support mechanisms, explored the difficulties in bringing computers into the clinical and hospital situations, emphasized the need for training the right kind of people for biomedical endeavors, saw the emergence of the ``whole systems approach'' as a healthy symptom, predicted greater multidisciplinary teamwork, greater use of computers, and a far deeper impact of biomedical engineering in the years ahead. One major hindrance to more rapid advances was said to be not science-centered but society-centered, rooted in our expression of social values. This article highlights this unusual and unusually productive conference."
"The Board of Directors of the IEEE, at its meeting of August 22, 1967, at WESCON, approved the creation of an Educational Activities Board, to have a status comparable to the three other major Boards of the Institute: Publication Activities, Technical Activities, and Awards. This action represents a reorganization of major importance to the IEEE in improving the effectiveness of its educational activities and furthering its recently launched program of continuing education services for the membership. The action came as a result of a year-long study by the Ad Hoc Committee on IEEE Educational Activities,* culminating in a report to the Board of Directors in August. Because the results and recommendations of the study have important implications for all members of the Institute, we are taking the unusual step of reproducing below the Ad Hoc Committee report in toto."
"Advertisement."
"Highlights technical articles and features presented in various current IEEE periodicals."
"A list of IEEE publications abstracted in this issue is given. The publications will be available in the near future. Only abstracts of the articles are provided herein."
"Advertisement."
"Translation of several non-English-language journals are sponsored by IEEE, Advance tables of contents of forthcoming translated issues and reviews of selected papers from recently translated issues appear here. Subscription rates and additional information are available from IEEE Subscriber Relations."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement of available employment opportunities."
"Reports on new technologies and trends in the industry."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Listing of advertisers represented in this issue."
"Advertising restricted to professional engineering and consulting services."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Provides a listing of current society officers."
"Advertisement."
"Provides a listing of current sociey officers."
"Advertisement."
"Presents recent technologies and trends in the engineering and computer industries."
"Reports on news of interest to IEEE members, including upcoming meetings and events, industry news, and recent IEEE member obituaries."
"Advertisement."
"Provides a listing of upcoming events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Advertisement."
"Provides news relating to engineering and computing industry leaders, practitioners and researchers."
"Advertisement."
"Recounts the career and contributions of IEEE members who passed away in 1967."
"Presents a biographical entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
"Teleprocessing systems are mushrooming throughout public and private industry: computer-to-computer links form an integral part of our national defense system and air traffic control; manned terminal-to-computer systems establish reservations on airlines and at motels; hybrid systems keep our tax returns honest. But these computer centers, remote terminals, and displays are often a part, and require lines of direct communication A large number of inexpensive, switchable data channels are needed, with a speed resolution of 10 to 20 characters per second, for connecting human-operated terminals to a multiplex of special-purpose computers. Machine-to-machine communication requires channels with high-speed data resolution that are several orders of magnitude faster, with virtually error-free performance."
"War is a killing game that is brought to its highest playing efficiency by the scientific researchers, engineers, and technicians of all major powers. Although some of the devices and techniques were developed in peacetime, the majority of the weapons systems were evolved in wartime crash programs, usually in response to new and advanced devices used by an enemy. Thus, with the advent of each new weapon, an equally important task had to be accomplished- that of finding an effective countermeasure."
"Like the earlier magnetohydrodynamic (MHD) concept, EGD conversion is being seriously considered by the utilities as a possible future means for obtaining large-scale production of electric power. Probably the principal advantage of the EGD converter is that a high gas temperature is not a basic requirement. In addition, the EGD system is potentially capable of generating ac power directly at transmission-line voltages with the use of conventional or nuclear energy sources. Following a brief discussion of MHD conversion, this article reviews the basic theory of EGD conversion and describes a converter system now under development."
"The fast Fourier transform (FFT), a computer algorithm that computes the discrete Fourier transform much faster than other algorithms, is explained. Examples and detailed procedures are provided to assist the reader in learning how to use the algorithm. The savings in computer time can be huge; for example, an N = 210-point transform can be computed with the FFT 100 times faster than with the use of a direct approach."
"The growing complexity of the power industry requires an increased influx to the utilities of highly trained engineers on the B.S., M.S., and Ph.D. levels. These men must be specialists in the power field. Ironically, the number of engineers available to the electric utilities is rapidly declining. Few colleges and universities offer specialized courses in the power field. Few professors teach the necessarily specialized courses. And, as a result, few graduates are either interested in or qualified to enter the power industry. The whole problem seems to be money."
"Advertisement."
"Cities must have freeway systems in order to facilitate the movement of traffic. After a city reaches a certain size, however, it soon becomes apparent that freeways alone cannot solve the transportation problem. The only solution to this problem is to provide a system of balanced transit. Thus every large city that has expanded very rapidly-Los Angeles, Houston, Atlanta, and many others-should be planning or building a balanced transit system, with railroad rapid transit (including suburban railroad service) as the core, augmented by freeways for buses and private automobiles."
"Advertisement."
"Highlights technical articles and features presented in various current IEEE periodicals."
"A list of IEEE publications abstracted in this issue is given. The publications will be available in the near future. Only abstracts of the articles are provided herein."
"Advertisement."
"Translation of several non-English-language journals are sponsored by IEEE, Advance tables of contents of forthcoming translated issues and reviews of selected papers from recently translated issues appear here. Subscription rates and additional information are available from IEEE Subscriber Relations."
"Advertisement."
"Reports on new technologies and trends in the industry."
"This section contains complete multientry indexes covering the contents of IEEE Spectrum for the calendar year 1967. The Subject and Author Indexes include feature articles, Book Reviews, and Technical Correspondence. Items in the News of the IEEE and Focal Points sections appear in the News Index, except for People and Obituary items, which are indexed separately. IEEE Forum items appear in the Author Index."
"Listing of advertisers represented in this issue."
"Advertising restricted to professional engineering and consulting services."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"As electronic systems continue to increase in cost and complexity, the search for more effective maintainability concepts and techniques takes on added momentum. Recent contracts often require maintainability to be predicted during design and the predictions later validated by demonstration. To accomplish these new requirements, maintainability must develop a new and closer relationship with reliability and design engineering. This new relationship will not be difficult when probabilities of maintenance success are applied to the corrective maintenance repair time predictions. Probabilities of maintainability and reliability would then be compatible and thus effectively utilized to determine availability, the prime index for systems effectiveness. Changing maintainability requirements are discussed along with the more familiar prediction methods, as well as how these concepts and techniques can be expanded to predict the probability of maintenance success."
"The impact of the systems effectiveness concept upon military terminology required for the acquisition of modern weapon systems necessitated a thorough revision of MIL-STD-721A and consolidation with MIL-STD-778 and MIL-STD-447. Inclusion of a number of new terms and their definitions, as well as addition of standard definitions for terms on human factors and safety, was found to be necessary. The conceptual relationship between maintainability and reliability has been strongly enhanced. The resulting Military Standard has been approved by the Department of Defense for use by all of its departments and agencies. This paper, written by one of the participants in the revision and compilation of this Military Standard, is published for the purpose of advance information and discussion of its scope and contents."
"Military Standard 470 is a recently developed and published document containing the requirements for conducting a maintainability program. It is a tri-service coordinated document and replaces seven previously existing maintainability specifications of the three services. This paper examines each of the maintainability program task requirements and offers explanation, interpretation, or amplification, as deemed necessary, to provide a better understanding of the salient features of the document."
"This paper outlines the need for maintainability prediction procedures which are applicable to systems and equipment, and outlines the scope and principle features of techniques included in the new Maintainability Prediction Handbook (MIL-HDBK-472). This handbook consolidates tri-service efforts in the field of maintainability prediction and furnishes guidelines for the selection, interpretation, and application of the procedures contained therein. The paper also describes how the Department of Defense and the procuring agencies are expected to use the handbook, the planned method of updating its contents, and additional techniques being considered for future incorporation."
"This paper describes what Design Disclosure Format (DDF) means, specific examples of how it can be used, and where it is being tried in practice. By way of a brief background, the development was originally sponsored by the SEAHAWK Program office. At present its development continues under the auspices of the Navy's PACED Program, an arm of the overall System Performance Effectiveness effort."
"The demonstration of the achievement of maintainability requirements has become an important contractual requirement, and each of the military services has published specifications describing their particular approach. With the existence of a number of specifications related to the same subject, contractors have been faced with the problem of becoming familiar with the requirements of each and adjusting their maintainability organization accordingly. The obvious solution is to issue one standard embodying the basic requirements of all the services. This paper will describe MIL-STD-471, ``Maintainability Demonstration,'' prepared by a tri-service Department of Defense Task Group. It will describe, briefly, the background and problems leading to the development of the Standard, as well as its organization and the requirements and procedures contained therein."
"The procedures employed, the results obtained, and ancillary findings and insights gained from 11 separate maintainability demonstrations are presented. These demonstrations were conducted in accordance with MIL-M-26512 on electronic equipment installed at five operating ground sites. A total of 419 simulated malfunctions were inserted into 11 of these subsystems under carefully controlled conditions, and the times required to diagnose and correct these malfunctions were recorded. The results are sure to be of interest to both the theoretician and the practitioner in the field of maintainability engineering, and will hopefully serve and interest many in the broader areas of system planning, system simulation, and system evaluation."
"This paper addresses itself to the special industrial replacement problem of determination of maintenance replication rate and spares provisioning. Because of its great representational flexibility, the quadparametric generalized gamma function1 is assumed as the distribution of life length. Starting with the traditional convolution integral form of the renewal equation, the Laplace transform of the replacement rate is derived. Then, an infinite series representation of this transform is ev lved. Next, an inverse transform is developed which obtains the distributional form for the general term of the series. This turns out to be another generalized gamma function. Hence, the replacement rate has this form of probability density. Finally, the expression for the replacement rate is integrated to obtain the formula for calculating the expected number of replacements in a general period of time t = t1 to t = t2."
"The paper reviews the state-of-the-art in space maintenance methods and hardware. Included are sections on the space environment, automatic maintenance, remote handling, space suits, zero-reaction tools, fastening and sealing techniques, and methods of constructing habitable structures in space or on lunar or planetary surfaces. Studies of economic factors in space maintenance, support, and logistics are discussed, and an extensive bibliography of source material is appended."
"Phased planar radars represent a class of equipment employing hundreds or thousands of individual electronically steerable radiating and receiving elements. In the operation of such systems, it is necessary to keep continually ahead of an advancing failure accumulation through maintenance policies geared to replacement-while-in-operation concepts. Several practical maintenance policies are considered: 1) immediate maintenance, 2) delayed maintenance, and 3) cyclic maintenance. The effects of these policies on the outage availability are considered and it is shown that each has certain advantages. Immediate maintenance yields the highest system availability, but requires the continued presence of a moderate size maintenance force. Increasing the number of maintenance crews increases the availability of phased array systems, but the added contribution to satisfactory system states shrinks rapidly with the growth of crews. Delayed and cyclic maintenance both involve a more leisurely, planned work pace characterized by periods of relatively low service activity, followed by periods of intense activity to restore the system. At the expense of some system availability, these policies require only part-time presence of maintenance personnel and may well be the most attractive alternatives for phased array radar systems possessing some degree of surplus performance."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"A digital computer technique is developed, using a Monte Carlo simulation based on common probability models, with which component test data may be translated into approximate system reliability limits at any confidence level. The probability distributions from which the component failures are assumed to come are the exponential, Weibull (shape parameter K known), gamma (shape parameter α known), normal, and lognormal. The components can be arranged in any system configuration, series, parallel, or both. Since reliability prediction is meaningful only when expressed with an associated confidence leve, this method provides a valuable and economical tool for the reliability analyst."
"In the analysis of an electronic circuit containing component parts on which two or more measurements are made there is the need for treating correlated part characteristics. In a performance simulation analysis using a digital computer, one must generate the correlated variables with the appropriate correlations. A method for generating a set of normally distributed variables with a given correlation matrix is presented in this paper. The method is based on an algorithm used in the square root method for solving a system of linear equations. The procedure is applied to a linear amplifier, for which the h-parameters of the equivalent dc circuit analysis of the transistor are a good example of correlated part characteristics. The method has been written in FORTRAN and the computations could be performed on almost any digital computer."
"The relative uncertainty involved in the prediction of the failure rate of a system is often considerably less than the uncertainty associated with the failure rate of the average component. For example, if we are 60 percent uncertain of the failure rate of each of nine component types, then, at best, we are only 20 percent uncertain of the system failure rate. This result is a consequence of the variety of component types, not the number of each type present in the system. The relative uncertainty associated with the prediction of the number of future system failures is always greater than that associated with system failure rate. As an example, let the uncertainty in system failure rate be 20 percent. If the Poisson process yields a 40 percent uncertainty in the number of failures for an interval t1, then the actual uncertainty is 45 percent; for a larger interval t2, if the Poisson process yields 10 percent, the actual uncertainty is 22 percent. The fault is not with the Poisson process, but rather with the assumption that the estimated failure rate can be treated as the true failure rate."
"The purpose of this paper is to obtain an optimum redundancy of the parallel system by a variational technique. The objective function is to maximize the system profit. A simple computational procedure is obtained for the optimum design of the multistage parallel systems by this method. Two numerical examples are given in detail."
"The problem treated here is that of deriving exact Bayesian confidence intervals for the reliability of a cascade system consisting of N independent subsystems each having an exponential distribution of life with a failure rate which is estimated from life test data. The posterior probability density function of the system reliability is derived in closed form, using the method of the Mellin integral transform. The posterior distribution function is obtained, yielding Bayesian confidence limits on the total system reliability. These results, which are believed to be new for N > 3, have an immediate application to problems of reliability evaluation and test planning."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"A procedure is proposed for identification and diagnosis of faults in multiterminal devices. A combinatorial technique determines the number of x-terminal y-port nonredundant sub-networks which can be generated from a z-terminal parent network. This information is intended to identify and isolate internal faults of the system through an optimal set of external measurements. An elementary tutorial introduction to the terminology and procedures of combinatorial analysis aims to make this account self-contained and useful to the reliability engineer without a specialized mathematical background. Four-terminal and five-terminal devices are examined first. The results are then so formulated as to yield algorithms for computer-oriented procedures to identify the complete set of nonredundant configurations of a multiterminal network. The flowchart of operations suitable for a computer program is presented."
"One-order-statistic estimators are derived for the shape parameter K of the limited distribution function F1(x, ω, K) = 1 - (ω - x)K and the Pareto distribution function F2(y, ϵ, K) = 1 - (y - ϵ)-K, given the location parameters ω and ϵ, respectively. Similar estimators are derived for the scale parameters v1 and Vn, of the Type II asymptotic distributions of smallest and largest values, F3(w, v1, K) = 1 - exp[-(w/v1)-K] and F4(z, vn K) = exp [-(z/vn)-K], given the shape parameter K and assuming the location parameter is zero. The one-order-statistic estimators are K|ω = -1/Cmn 1n(ω - xmn) for the limited distribution, K|ϵ = 1/Cmn 1n(ymn - ϵ) for the Pareto distribution, v1|K = Cmn-1/K Wmn and vn|K = Cmn-1/K Zn-m+1,n for the Type II distributions of smallest and largest values, where Xmn, Ymn, Wmn, Zmn are the mth order statistics of samples of size n from the respective distributions and Cmn is the coefficient for a one-order-statistic estimator of the scale parameter of an exponential distribution, which has been tabled in an earlier paper. It is shown that exact confidence bounds can be easily derived for these parameters using exact confidence bounds for the scale parameter of the exponential distribution. Use of the estimators is illustrated by numerical examples."
"In many maintenance situations for certain weapon systems, such as anti-aircraft systems, the problems confronted are: 1) which priority for repair is to be assigned, and 2) which type of component should be assigned priority for repair. This can be done on the basis of mean time to system failure. This paper discusses the reliability characteristics of a system of two paralleled radars working in conjunction with two paralleled computers. The system is in up stage even if one computer and/or one radar fails. The system failure takes place only when both the computers or both the radars are in failed condition. The distribution of time to system failure and its expectation have been derived assuming that the failures occur following Poisson distribution and the repair times follow the negative exponential distribution for these two types of subsystems imposing head-of-the-line priority and preemptive resume priority for the repair process. The results are discussed with reference to numerical examples. It has been observed that the mean time to system failure is higher when the head-of-the-line priority discipline is adopted for repair of components, especially when the repair times are shorter."
"The evaluation of the reliability of a system of components, when the components are assumed to follow a joint exponential distribution, is considered. The approach used is to develop tolerance regions for the joint exponential distribution or to estimate the probability content of the appropriate specification region."
"An ensemble of electronic components having a random variation of some parameter, such as surface contamination, is considered. A physical process is postulated which leads to a change in one of the operating characteristics of the device. When this operating characteristic attains a value outside an acceptable range, the device is considered to have failed. The failure rate is calculated directly from the time behavior of the physical process and compared, for illustration, to the Weibull failure law. The parameters of the Weibull law are then related to the parameters of the physical process and the distribution of starting parameters."
"The cost effectiveness concept covers the measure of a system in terms of total dollar value. Cost effectiveness encompasses the elements of system effectiveness (a quantitative measure of a system's technical ability) as well as cost. One of the elements of system effectiveness is maintainability. Maintainability is an effective mechanism for the accomplishment of planned maintenance during the early design and development phases of a system. Planned maintenance is an element of integrated logistics support. The intent of this paper is to outline the basic elements associated with cost effectiveness, system effectiveness, and integrated logistics support, to outline the interrelationships of these concepts, and to cover the discipline of maintainability as an element of each concept."
"A case study demonstrates that spares requirements based on operational reliability predictions result in the system being undersupported during its burn-in and useful-life phases by average factors of 42.2 and 4.22, respectively. However, systems spares requirements based on logistics estimates result in the system being oversupported during its burn-in phase by an average factor of 4.26 with this factor probably increasing as the system enters the useful-life phase of its life cycle. Adequate system support within predetermined cost estimates will be achieved only when reliability predictions are accurate and when systems spares requirements are computed separately for the equipment burn-in phase and useful-life phase."
"Summary form only given, as follows. The author of the above-named work, which appeared on pp. 127-132 of the December, 1966, issue of this Transactions, has called the following to the attention of the Editor. The sentence at the top of p. 129 should read: \"Note that the approximate failure equation obtained from the LSD in Fig, 3 is equal to (1). Equation (6) should read: P3 = P2b3 + b3b2b1B3. In addition, the figure designated as Fig. 7 is Fig. 6, and vice versa."
"A simple graph is presented showing the total fraction of devices which will fail over any given time for lognormal failure distributions. The result is a function of the median life and the geometric dispersion."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Provides a listing of current society officers."
"Advertisement."
"Presents recent technologies and trends in the engineering and computer industries."
"Readers are invited to comment in this department on material previously published in IEEE Spectrum; on the policies and operations of the IEEE; and on technical, economic, or social matters of interest to the electrical and electronics engineering profession. Short, concise letters are preferred. The Editor reserves the right to limit debate on controversial issues."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Reports on news of interest to IEEE members, including upcoming meetings and events, industry news, and recent IEEE member obituaries."
"Advertisement."
"Provides a listing of upcoming events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Advertisement."
"Provides news relating to engineering and computing industry leaders, practitioners and researchers."
"Advertisement."
"Recounts the career and contributions of IEEE members who passed away in 1967."
"Presents a biographical entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
"As vehicular traffic increases both in density and complexity, particularly in urban areas, effective control systems to minimize delays become more and more essential. The traffic engineer's problem is twofold: to optimize existing facilities and to plan new ones. Some of the many ways electronic tools are being employed to help solve these problems are described in this article. The challenge is basically one of continued coordination of the several disciplines common to the engineering of transport systems."
"The restriction that linear distortion imposes on the flow of information has been well known for some time. Consequently, means have been developed for reducing this distortion through the insertion of compensating linear devices. In the past this reduction has been achieved through the use of conventional lumped-parameter networks, quite static by nature. The use of the transversal filter, however, provides a more dynamic and flexible approach. This device is well suited to automatic and even adaptive operation, and thus it can meet the demands of a channel with time-varying distortion."
"Similarity exists between moving large masses of people and the process industry. Both have fixed inputs, fixed outputs, predictable patterns, variables that can be measured, and corrections that can be made. Both entities respond to the principle of closed-loop regulation. From the experience gained in the San Francisco Bay Area Rapid Transit District (BARTD), a planned approach to coordinated and automated mass transportation systems is entirely feasible. Electronic controls are a major factor in providing an economic solution to the problem."
"Advertisement."
"A major problem in deep-space communication systems is that of obtaining high data rates (of the order of 107 bits per second). This article proposes some design concepts that indicate the probable feasibility of achieving wide-band communications by means of the laser. The example selected here is a hypothetical mission to Venus, chosen because of its great brightness and, hence, high background-noise level. Since no earth satellite relay is assumed, the communication channel includes the atmosphere. The down-link is the one considered because of its high-information-rate requirement."
"Techniques of harmonic analysis have recently crystallized into modern power-spectrum analysis, the presently accepted ``best'' tool for uncovering periodicities and near-periodicities hidden in noisy data. Despite the simplicity of this concept-to electrical engineers, at least-computing a meaningful power spectrum involves several subtleties that are too easily overlooked by the nonspecialist. This article presents an elementary review of such pit-falls and of their origins."
"Most of the electric power supply systems in the United States are interconnected to provide more reliable service and economy of operation. The majority of these interconnections consist, generally, of tie lines between neighboring utility systems, with contracts between the parties providing for sharing of benefits or for operating procedures. This article discusses how interconnections evolved into fully coordinated power pools, and the benefits resulting from this coordination. Of particular interest is the Pennsylvania-New Jersey-Maryland Interconnection, the largest such pool in the country. Dating back to 1927, it established a successful pattern for the coordination of utility systems."
"Highlights technical articles and features presented in various current IEEE periodicals."
"A list of IEEE publications abstracted in this issue is given. The publications will be available in the near future. Only abstracts of the articles are provided herein."
"Advertisement."
"Translation of several non-English-language journals are sponsored by IEEE, Advance tables of contents of forthcoming translated issues and reviews of selected papers from recently translated issues appear here. Subscription rates and additional information are available from IEEE Subscriber Relations."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Reports on new technologies and trends in the industry."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Listing of advertisers represented in this issue."
"Advertising restricted to professional engineering and consulting services."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Microprogram control has received a heavy design emphasis in several of the SYSTEM/BGO models because it makes an extensive instruction set economically feasible in relatively small computers. Microprogram control offers additional advantages for the designers of emulators and compatibility modifications. This paper reports on the main features of the microprogram design approach employed in SYSTEM/~GO. To help place the subject in perspective, some of the literature on microprogramming is briefly reviewed at the outset. The outlines of a microprogram language are also discussed."
"Simulation is a well-established tool, with applications ranging from the study of information flow in business organizations to the investigation of the dynamic behavior of complex mechanical systems. The former has often been treated as a discrete process on digital computers through the use of such discrete system simulation programs as the General Purpose System Simulator (GPSS).1 By contrast, those continuous dynamic systems that are the usual concern of engineers and scientists traditionally have been modeled on analog computers."
"Transmitting digital data over communication lines is a fundamental requirement in a growing variety of data processing applications. As the kinds of applications have grown, so has the variety of terminal devices, data codes, and communication facilities."
"To meet the challenges posed by today's aircraft and rising volumes of air traffic, the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) is undertaking a many-faceted developmental program for increasing the capabilities of its traffic control system. Referred to as the National Airspace System (NAS), the program is evolutionary in the sense that the projected goals are to be reached systematically through step-by-step changes. The system deals, on an unusually large scale, with all of the basic functions normally associated with real-time control: information gathering, data communication, data processing, man-machine interaction, and information dissemination. Contributing to the system as a whole are many FAA-defined subsystems; the devices and programs that implement these subsystems are provided by a variety of contractors."
"In accordance with Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) requirements1 for a large-scale multisystem of high availability, the IBM 9020 system has been designed to provide automated aids for the processing and updating of flight information. Major tasks are to aid in establishing and maintaining radar identification of aircraft and to automate the display of altitude or flight-level information with aircraft position. The system will also provide an automation base for subsequent improvements in air traffic control."
"In designing a control program for the IBM 9020 system discussed in Part II of this paper, the main programming challenge was to provide for the simultaneous operation of two or more Computing Elements (processing units) without having one interfere with the others. The obvious approach, that of preassigning specific functions to each Computing Element, is too inflexible. In fact, any scheme based on the habitual notion that Computing Elements should be the focal point of control is apt to lead to inflexibilities."
"The use of multiprocessing in the Federal Aviation Administration's (FAA's) air traffic control application has necessitated the development of a new type of program—the Operational Error Analysis Program (OEAP). Such a program performs on-line analyses of equipment failure indications concurrently with regular processing, and assesses the source and seriousness of each potential malfunction. If necessary, the program realigns the communication and control paths in the multi-element system to functionally replace failing elements by redundant elements."
"The Multiprocessing Diagnostic Monitor (MDM) is a special-purpose control program for the IBM 9020 system. Although MDM can control any problem program written to the proper specifications, the primary developmental goal was to achieve a flexible capability for controlling diagnostic programs in the course of system test, acceptance test, and field maintenance."
"The IBM 9020 multiprocessing system, described in Parts II to V, was designed to meet the Federal Aviation Administration's specifications for the Central Computer Complex of the National Air Space (NAS) system. In order to round out a picture of the whole system, this Part presents a brief discussion of the intended application and the related programs (subsequently called operational programs)."
"Computing systems capable of simultaneously executing a number of tasks may become more important in the future.1 This paper considers an implication of this trend in the field of numerical analysis. We aim to give an informal description of one means whereby parallelism can be produced and exploited. A particular technique for the development of additional parallelism in conventional sequential algorithms (the introduction of redundancy) is illustrated by a discussion of the bisection technique for determining the roots of functions."
"Three generations of programming systems have provided realtime ground support for manned spaceflight programs. The first of these was the Mercury system, which became operational in 1960.1 The third and current system supports the Apollo program. The subject of this paper is the second in the series, the Gemini system, developed for NASA at the Manned Spaceflight Center in Houston, Texas."
"During an investigation of several project network techniques for their applicability to the effective description of business problems, it became evident that more efficient computer programs than those currently available could be written for large networks. Heretofore, critical-path computations have been divided into several phases. The experimental program described here employs a one-phase calculation procedure that eliminates much of the preprocessing of input data required by other methods and therefore achieves faster calculation speed. Written for the IBM 7090, the program calculates the critical path as well as early and late start times for large project networks without requiring the storage of intermediate results on magnetic tape. A formal descriptive language is used to describe the basic algorithm, first at a functional level and then at a machine-dependent level."
"As part of a broader study dealing with the conversion of documents into machine-readable form, a procedure for machine-assisted proofreading was developed and investigated. The proofreading function was assumed to include correction of spelling errors and standardization of spelling variants. The purpose here is to describe the general procedure, which was based on an experimental dictionary and various classification and processing algorithms, and to comment on the results of the investigation. A complete description of the larger study and its results appears in a final report."
"Prior to third-generation computers, few systems programmers had tried to implement full-function operating systems for small-storage computers. True, most installations had many of the functional requirements that justified operating systems, but storage limitations made it impractical to meet these needs on an integrated basis. At present, however, two forces are clearly at work to change the trend. First, the new computers bring with them a degree of device modularity and flexibility that intensifies the need for integrated operating systems, and second, these same computers possess a degree of efficiency that makes operating systems practical for smaller main-storage areas."
"The growing diversity and increasing complexity of new applications demand more efficient data-handling devices and methods. The computer designers have responded with a large complement of different input/output (I/O) and auxiliary storage devices. However, the majority of users in the small-to-intermediate computer class desire to spend most, if not all, of their programming effort in solving their own problems. They wish to expend a minimum of effort in coping with the intricacies of the various I/O devices, or in developing new techniques for retrieval of information. Thed ata management facilities for DOS/360 and TOS/360, discussed in this paper,1 have been designed especially for IBM SYSTEM/360 users in this class."
"DOS/360, a disk operating system for intermediate SYSTEM/360 configurations, provides a set of data management routines1 that are collectively called the Logical Input/Output Control System (LIOCS). The LIOCS permits a file to be organized either for random access or for random and sequential access, the former being referred to as the Direct Access Method (DAM) and the latter as the Indexed Sequential Access Method (ISAM). The IOCS routines can be used in creating and updating data files, thus relieving users of a substantial programming effort."
"The premise of this paper is that real-time systems have started to proliferate and that it is desirable to recognize different kinds of systems to avoid over-generalization. Table 5 summarizes the five categories discussed in the paper. No attempt has been made to be mathematically precise in assigning applications to one and only one category. It is, of course, easy to show overlaps and redundancies in the tables. On the other hand, it is important to understand the features and capabilities of the various kinds of real-time systems in order to design a system for a particular purpose. This paper suggests that five kinds of systems are available to satisfy five kinds of objectives: • Control a process • Provide information for decision making • Improve user turnaround time for problem solving • Improve system turnaround time for batch processing • Collect data"
"A long history of large-scale scientific computing is associated with numerical weather prediction. Recently, interest in this field has been renewed as a result of international studies concerning the feasibility of a global observation and analysis experiment preliminary to the World Weather Watch. This paper describes the physical phenomena occurring in the atmosphere and the problems of modeling them for computer analysis. The numerical methods commonly used in general circulation models are described briefly and the relative advantages discussed. Finally, an analysis of the computer requirements for global weather calculations is developed and the need pointed out for very fast computers capable of executing the equivalent of hundreds of millions of instructions per second."
"A new signature table technique is described together with an improved book learning procedure which is thought to be much superior to the linear polynomial method described earlier. Full use is made of the so called “alpha-beta” pruning and several forms of forward pruning to restrict the spread of the move tree and to permit the program to look ahead to a much greater depth than it otherwise could do. While still unable to outplay checker masters, the program's playing ability has been greatly improved."
"If similar motion occurs, it is demonstrated by a straight line (linear trajectory) in the configuration space whose orthogonal coordinates are the displacements of the masses in the vibrating system. Since the systems considered are conservative, all solutions of the equations of motion must satisfy the Principle of Least Action and its Euler-Lagrange equation. The solution of this equation defines a trajectory in configuration space, thus reducing the problem to one of geometry."
"This paper describes the mathematical formulation of a computer program for automatic transient analysis of electronic networks. The formulation is based on the “state-variable” approach to network analysis and differs from other such programs primarily in the way that the network equations are manipulated to produce a solution. SCEPTRE includes a number of features aimed at providing greater flexibility and convenience for users of the program. Important among these features is that no prescribed equivalent circuit for active elements is required for program operation. Also, linearly dependent voltage and current sources in a network can be handled by the program, and provision has been made to allow a free-form format for input data. The paper includes a discussion of the program's ability to solve networks containing time-varying passive elements, and considers the factors that influence program running time."
"A signal-processing system for synthesizing complicated transfer functions in a prescribed frequency band is described. The system consists of a multiplier followed by a closed loop containing a delay line and phase modulator in series. One of the inputs to the multiplier is the signal to be filtered. The second input to the multiplier is periodic, the period being equal to the loop delay. One cycle of the periodic waveform is identical to the real part of the transfer function over a prescribed frequency band of width equal to the reciprocal of the loop delay. The imaginary component of the transfer function is the negative of the Hilbert transform of the real part, as in all physically realizable filters. Two applications of the system are discussed. It is shown how a continuously variable delay line and chirp filter can be synthesized using these techniques."
"The use of controlled exposure in microfilming original documents offers a practical method for producing high-contrast images at subsequent printing stages with constant exposure times. This type of control, used for the three-stage generation of images in a developmental photo-image retrieval system, has given excellent results for documents which have uniform line-density contrast. For variable contrast documents, an analysis of the variations and variable exposures used in microfilming is necessary. The details of the analysis are described in this paper."
"This communication considers the error in the reconstruction of a deterministic, non-bandlimited real function from its sampled values. We have two objectives in mind. First, we show that in a certain sense, to be made precise in the sequel, the error in the reconstruction of f(t) from its sampled values f(nπ/Ω) by sin x/x interpolation is small provided the portion of the amplitude spectrum lying outside [−Ω, Ω]i s small. Our second objective is tos how the analogous situation need not hold for the energy spectrum. Indeed, we shall exhibit a function with an arbitrarily small amount of its energy outside the frequency band |w| ≤ Ω for which the sin x/x interpolation series of equation fails to converge either pointwise or in the mean square sense."
"In this issue the Journal takes special note of work at IBM in the field of automatic feedback control. We offer a collection of nine papers on various problems in control theory and its application. Our intent in assembling the collection has been to identify some current projects that will give our readers an idea of the range and variety of controls problems that are engaging the interest of IBM scientists and engineers. Hence, we made no attempt to represent every controls project under way in our laboratories, nor did we subdivide the field and then try to find a contribution to fit each pigeonhole."
"For certain optimal control problems, some of the extremal trajectories generated by simultaneous solution of the state and adjoint equations may include arcs of a special character, called “singular” arcs. The optimality of singular arcs has been the subject of considerable uncertainty, since the classical criteria are inapplicable or inconclusive. This uncertainty has recently been reduced by the discovery of additional necessary conditions for the optimality of singular arcs. The principal result of this paper is a general statement and proof of these conditions, in the form of a “generalized Legendre-Clebsch condition” which reduces to the classical Legendre-Clebsch condition when applied to nonsingular arcs, and gives additional necessary conditions when applied to singular arcs. Other results include a classification of the possible singular arcs, a useful extension of the conventional optimal-control formalism (by the introduction of “generalized Hamiltonians” and “generalized control transformations”), and some interesting variational formulae."
"A generalized “indirect” method of solving two-point boundary value problems is discussed in application to the problem of computing optimal trajectories in a vacuum. Improved numerical techniques make the method extremely fast when a good initial estimate of the solution is available, but it also converges, more slowly, from initial estimates that are far from the solution. Transversality conditions are combined with final-value constraints enabling the method to solve directly problems defined by constraints on arbitrary functions of final state. Section 1 defines the differential equations and initial and terminal conditions for optimal rocket trajectories in a central gravitational field. The differential equations are given a particularly simple form and transversality conditions are formulated analytically for typical orbital injection missions. Section 2 defines efficient numerical procedures for solving the initial value problem of optimal trajectories and so reduces the boundary value problem to a multidimensional zero-finding problem. Section 3 describes the generalized version of Newton's method used to solve this multidimensional zero-finding problem. Section 4 summarizes the results of an IBM 7094 implementation, giving execution times and convergence properties."
"Two new results in two-point boundary value problems are presented. The first is a modified method of adjoints which, under certain circumstances, will solve numerically two-point boundary value problems faster than the standard method of adjoints. The second result shows that Friedrichs' solution of the operator equation P(x) = 0 is really the modified Newton method. Kantorovich's sufficiency conditions for the convergence of the modified Newton's method are compared with Friedrichs' sufficiency conditions; it appears that, for most applications, the former conditions allow more leeway."
"This paper describes an attempt to apply linear optimal control theory to computer control of an industrial process. The applicability of the theory is discussed. Particular attention is given to the problem of obtaining a mathematical model of process dynamics and disturbances. Results of actual measurements as well as results from on-line control experience are presented."
"Two methods similar to regression analysis are applied to the estimation of parameters in a dynamic process equation. One method uses a residual based directly on the differential equation for the process model. The second method forms the residual from the integro-differential equations derived by integration of the original differential equation with respect to time. The two methods are shown to be complementary in their sensitivity to process and measurement disturbances as well as to errors in the estimate of the process variable reference values. Certain parameters that are very sensitive with one method are shown to be much less sensitive with the other method. A combined method is developed which utilizes each one of the constituent techniques to estimate the parameter for which it has the highest accuracy. This not only permits identification with higher overall parameter accuracy, but also under many practical circumstances gives a convergent solution when one of the constituent methods would give a diverging solution having no practical value for updating control coefficients in an adaptive controller. It is shown that the estimate of the magnitude of a pole in a transfer function can be significantly improved by prefiltering the process input and output data with the same lowpass filter. The paper presents a theoretical and experimental evaluation of the identification methods. Formulas are derived for the variances of the parameters permitting an estimation of the parameter accuracy in a particular test. The test data used has been collected from different control loops on paper machines. The disturbance level on some of the variables is very strong and a test signal-to-noise ratio as low as 0.5 can be encountered. The method is currently used in routine operation in adaptive paper machine control. It is in use on four control loops and has been tested on several other loops as well."
"A constraint on the sensitivity to plant parameter uncertainties is introduced in the synthesis of optimal linear controls by adding a sensitivity function to a quadratic form performance criterion. The synthesis is carried out in the frequency domain using both conventional and Bode sensitivity functions; open-loop and closed-loop controls are of necessity treated separately because the sensitivity functions are different for each case. The optimal control based on the closed-loop Bode sensitivity is shown to satisfy a scalar Wiener-Hopf equation; the same type of equation is also satisfied by the optimal control based on the open-loop conventional sensitivity, but the response characteristics are different. Using the conventional closed-loop sensitivity, the optimal control is shown to satisfy an equation analogous to the Wiener-Hopf equation, but which is more difficult to solve because the control enters quadratically rather than linearly. Examples illustrate the application of derived results."
"A method of synchronizing traffic signals interconnected in an arbitrary network is presented. The procedure consists of using a simplified mathematical model for traffic to relate the vehicular delay within the network to the signal parameters and then searching over these parameters to minimize the delay. The technique has been used to synchronize traffic signals in San Jose, California and has yielded a ten percent reduction in the average delay per car in comparison with the signal settings determined by the city traffic department with conventional engineering methods."
"This paper reviews Z-transform and W-transform theory and discusses in detail its application to dynamic compensation of linear sampled-data control systems. Both sampled-data (digital) and continuous-data (analog) compensator synthesis methods are discussed. With respect to digital compensator design, w-plane closed-loop pole positions are related to time response characteristics, analogous to the well known relationships between s-plane pole positions and time response parameters for continuous-data systems. An example is given which illustrates the design technique wherein time and frequency response characteristics are compared. A digital stabilization filter is derived for the attitude control system of a missile typical of the Saturn class."
"A computer system utilizing duplexed central processors and three types of satellite computer terminals has been developed for the control of manufacturing processes and product tests. The system was designed for use in a plant producing data processing equipment. The prime objectives of the project were (1) to reduce the time required for the plant to accept new products or product changes, (2) to reduce control and test equipment costs by using standard control and test equipment, and (3) to improve product quality through more uniform processes and tests. The objectives were met by using small, stored-program computer terminals to control individual tests and processes. These terminals are connected to a central computer system which assists with data processing and serves as an input/output device for the terminals. The design and implementation of the system occurred in two phases. During the first phase the stored-program test terminal, a high-speed data transmission system, and a multiplexer were designed and installed on an IBM 1460 Data Processing System. A programming system was developed concurrently with the hardware. This system included a real-time monitor and application and utility programs which were written for operation in a time-shared environment. During the second phase of development a process control terminal, a data acquisition terminal, and a new multiplexer for duplexing two 1460 Data Processing Systems were designed and implemented. Also developed were shared file control units, an improved transmission system, and programming designed to effectively utilize the power of two computer systems on a real-time basis."
"The use of RF sputtering for the deposition of thin insulating films at relatively low temperatures (50° to 500°C) has been shown to yield films of very high quality. Methods for investigating the properties of RF-sputtered films are discussed in detail, and these indicate that such films are excellent stable insulators. Potential utility as an encapsulant for transistor structures has been demonstrated. Data for RF-sputtered SiO2 and GSC-1 (an alumina borosilicate glass) are presented as examples of the properties obtained by this technique."
"The magnetization mechanism has been studied in detail in single-crystal slabs of (111), (110) and (100) samples of gadolinium iron garnet (GdIG) near the compensation temperature. Using Faraday-effect and induction-type hysteresigraphs, the hysteresis loops have been measured in the sample plane and perpendicular to it, respectively. Measurements have been made at various temperatures, thus allowing the effects of variation of the saturation magnetization to be studied. In this way different relative magnitudes of shape and crystal anisotropy are obtained. Also, the effects of strain anisotropy variation are studied on the (111) sample. The hysteresis loops are correlated with the observed domain structures and a satisfactory theoretical model is described. Based on these studies, it is possible to estimate the approximate domain wall thickness and energy in GdIG. Finally, an estimate of the exchange constant is made which is comparable with other estimates."
"A method was developed that is used to determine the acoustic power radiated by pure-tone and “nearly-pure-tone” sources in a reverberation chamber. The 3-dimensional standing wave sound field generated by a pure-tone source is sampled by a microphone that slowly sweeps a circular path in the chamber. The method relates the average value of the sound pressure at the peaks of the “sample” to its effective rms pressure. The acoustic power of the source is then readily calculated from the effective rms pressure, the volume of the chamber and its absorption."
"This paper presents the theory, design, and initially observed operating parameters of the Electron Beam Scanlaser, a scanning laser device in which a modified electro-optic display tube selects one of many degenerate transverse modes of a flat-field conjugate resonator. The version considered uses a KDP crystal in the mode selector and an ionized mercury hollow cathode discharge as active element. Some observations reported are resolution (10 lines/mm); sweep rate (100 µsec/line); light decay time (2 msec, minimum); and power/spot (1 W pulsed). Laser output power is about 30 dB greater than electron beam power."
"This paper reports an experimental study of the preparation of screened printed dielectric materials having high dielectric constants and a controlled temperature characteristic. The technique uses mixtures of sintered bodies which have different Curie points and which retain their identity after processing. Barium-strontium and barium-lead titanate mixtures have been prepared having a dielectric constant of about 500. This process has been used to produce negative-positive-zero, negative, and positive thermal coefficient bodies over various temperature ranges."
"Studies of the feasibility of custom-interconnected, large-scale integrated circuits required the development of means for converting computer-generated wiring instructions into metallic conductors on a semiconductor wafer. The resulting equipment took two forms. In one, ultraviolet light serves to expose photoresists on a mechanically translated wafer; the other employs an electron beam. Both systems were adequate to produce two-mil-wide conductors, but differ in their potential for achieving high production rates or very thin lines."
"Expressions are given for estimating the transient temperature distribution in a thin film heated by an electron beam. Graphical presentations in terms of dimensionless (reduced) variables are included to aid in specific calculations for designing an electron beam for use as a heating tool."
"An explicit nonlinear numerical integration method is presented for the solution of certain large systems of ordinary differential equations in which there is a large spread of time constants, the smallest one being real. The integration formulas are derived and some local truncation error data given for small step sizes. Some applications are discussed where the new technique saves considerable computation time over classical methods."
"This paper derives the power conversion in a nonlinear resistive element that is in series with linear resistors. The derivation of the power conversion is analogous to the Manley and Rowe analysis. The power at the fundamental and intermodulation frequencies is defined as the product of the Fourier coefficients of the current and voltage components at these frequencies. In the analysis, the Fourier coefficients are derived as functions of the generator voltage in a lumped-element circuit. To evaluate the Fourier coefficients, the relationship between current and generator voltage is expressed by a power series. The coefficients of the power series are given in the form of polynomials that are valid for nonlinear resistive elements with exponential characteristics. For the investigation of interference phenomena, the equivalence between the lumped-element circuit and a microwave circuit is derived and the generator voltage is related to the power flux density carried by the incident waves intercepted by support structures. The transfer of power at the intermodulation frequencies to radiating structures is then described. Finally, the power at the intermodulation frequencies is evaluated numerically for different power levels in the incident waves. The computed values were verified experimentally."
"In general, the current-voltage characteristic of a nonlinear resistive element can be represented by an exponential function: i = i0(eαe − 1), where i is the current through the nonlinear resistor, e is the voltage across the resistor, and i0 and α are constants. In a circuit containing a linear resistor R in series with the nonlinear resistor, the characteristic becomes i = i0[eα(v−R i)− 1], where v is a series voltage source."
"Middelhoek1 proposed in 1961 that the domain structure of narrow thin film strips could be used to measure energies of domain walls and Kuwahara et al. have likewise suggested this method.2 When measurements were attempted by these authors it was found that experimental results of wall energy were about a factor of four lower than calculated values. Furthermore, and contrary to theoretical calculations, there was no variation of wall energy density with film thicknes.2 This note proposes improvements in the experimental procedure, and reportss ome results which resolve the inconsistencies in the literature."
"This communication reports the results of a theoretical investigation of the propagation of signals in transmission lines whose nonlinear parameters are distributed capacitance and conductance. Such lines have their physical counterpart in lossless transmission lines that are loaded with closely spaced transistor bases or junction diodes, and in waveguides filled with certain ferroelectric ceramic materials. The analysis is carried out by conventional perturbation theory, and therefore the nonlinearities and dissipation are necessarily assumed to be small. The conditions for the formation of shock waves in such lines are also derived."
"Reproducibility and control of magnetic properties have been significant problems in the preparation of Permalloy films by cathodic sputtering. The data presented in this paper illustrate the reduced sensitivity to gaseous impurities that can be achieved by applying a suitable negative bias to an 81% Ni-19% Fe Permalloy film that is being deposited by dc sputtering. Results are shown which compare the magnetic properties as a function of deposition rate achieved with and without a bias potential applied to the film during deposition. Data are also presented showing the effect of film bias on magnetic properties when known concentrations of oxygen and nitrogen are present in the atmosphere during deposition. The evidence shows that the effect of the bias is to reduce the quantity of system atmosphere impurity included in the film. The bias technique has permitted, with good reproducibility, accurate experimental determination of the effect of such control parameters as substrate temperature on magnetic properties. (Wall motion threshold H0, anisotropy field Hk0, and dispersion α90 are plotted as a function of substrate temperature.) In addition, data are shown which demonstrate the compositional control and simplicity of film thickness and deposition rate control which are inherent in the sputtering process."
"Stimulated emission spectra of two organic dyes, chloro-aluminum phthalocyanine (CAP) and 3,3′-diethylthiatricarbocyanine iodide (DTTC) are compared. Giant-pulse ruby laser excitation was used in both cases. An end pumping configuration employed with DTTC resulted in narrow beam divergences and high conversion efficiencies. For CAP, the oscillating transition is one which terminates on an excited vibrational level of the ground electronic state. For DTTC, stimulated emission at the lowest concentrations occurs at the peak of the Franck–Condon-shifted fluorescence band but moves to longer wavelengths as the concentration is increased. The transient behavior of the CAP laser, pumped in a transverse geometry, was observed and compared with computer solutions of the rate equations. Polarization measurements of the laser beams were also made. An analysis is given of requirements for achieving optimal pumping by means of flashlamps.‡ [The paper concludes with an addendum reporting recent observations of stimulated emission from dye solutions lasing at wavelengths ranging from blue (4385 Å) to orange (6000 Å)]."
"Pumping with a specially constructed flashlamp rather than a giant pulse laser, we have just observed stimulated emission from three of the five dyes considered in the addendum to Ref. 1. In the table below we give some observations and results for the dyes in which lasing was thus achieved: Acridine Red, Rhodamine 6G, and Fluorescein"
"The design of a large, very-high-speed ferrite memory is described. The memory has a capacity of 8192 words, 72 bits per word, and has a cycle time of 110 nanoseconds and an access time of 67 nanoseconds. The storage devices are miniature ferrite cores, 0.0075 by 0.0123 by 0.0029 inches, and are operated in a two-core-per-bit destructive read-out mode. A planar array geometry with cores resting on a single ground plane is used to control drive line parameters. Device switching speed and bit line recovery are treated as special problems. The design criteria and operational characteristics of the core, and the approach taken on the bit line recovery problem, are also presented."
"A very-high-speed thin magnetic film memory has been designed and built as a cross sectional test model for 140,000 bits. It can be operated in the NDRO mode with a 20-nsec read cycle time and a 30-nsec access time, and it can be read 65 nsec after the beginning of a write operation."
"Device and array design considerations are described for a manufacturable 120-nsec cycle magnetic film memory containing 600,000 bits in the basic operating module. Worst-case testing is done in such a way as to provide quantitative values for such effects as adjacent bit-line stray field, ground-plane current spreading, flux trapping in metallic ground planes and strip lines, and magnetic-keeper efficiency. Worst-case output signals exceeding 3.8 mV are achieved with a 8-nsec rise-time word pulse of 510 mA. Bit current is 100 mA."
"This paper describes the concept for implementing direct computer control of stepping motors. The design approach is based on using the computer to close a minor loop around the motor. The discussion includes both full and partial computer control, and the results show that the closed-loop stepping motor is well suited to such applications."
"The validity of the Image Forming Systems Simulator, IMSIM/1, as a means of simulating multiple-stage photo-optical systems has been determined. IMSIM/1 was used to simulate a three-stage system consisting of a microfilm camera (first stage), followed by the photo-optical subsystem of a developmental image storage and retrieval system (second and third stage). Fine line targets were processed through the camera and the storage and retrieval system. Microdensitometer scans of the targets were then processed through the simulator. To compare the output of the real system with the output of the simulator, it was necessary to measure carefully those system and camera data used in the simulator. After this was done, a satisfactory agreement between experimental result and simulator output was achieved."
"The swift and dramatic rise of the computer as a new mathematical aid in every sort of human endeavor has, as one might expect, been reflected in mathematics itself. The field of numerical analysis, once a rather narrow province, has become a major region of mathematical activity. One of the most prophetically stimulating developments in numerical analysis occurred some years before the appearance of electronic digital computers. This was the paper “On the Partial Difference Equations of Mathematical Physics” by Richard Courant, Hans Lewy, and Kurt Friedrichs, published in Mathematische Annalen in 1928. This paper has formed the basis of modern investigations into the numerical analysis of partial differential equations. The ideas exposed still prevail."
"Problems involving the classical linear partial differential equations of mathematical physics can be reduced to algebraic ones of a very much simpler structure by replacing the differentials by difference quotients on some (say rectilinear) mesh. This paper will undertake an elementary discussion of these algebraic problems, in particular of the behavior of the solution as the mesh width tends to zero. For present purposes we limit ourselves mainly to simple but typical cases, and treat them in such a way that the applicability of the method to more general difference equations and to those with arbitrarily many independent variables is made clear."
"The portion of the Courant-Friedrichs-Lewy paper [Math. Ann. 100, 32 (1928)] that was devoted to hyperbolic difference equations is critically reviewed in terms of its basic contribution to the numerical solution of partial differential equations. Some subsequent developments are then discussed, including recent literature related to the von Neumann condition, some irreversible schemes, generalizations of the energy method, some new difference schemes, and mixed initial boundary value problems."
"Some aspects are discussed of the development of the theory of difference approximations to parabolic equations in its relation to the basic development of difference methods for hyperbolic and elliptic equations by Courant, Friedrichs and Lewy, [Math. Ann. 100, 32 (1928)]. The present paper also deals with the related problem of establishing the convergence of alternating direction implicit methods for elliptic problems."
"A brief review is given of the literature on numerical methods for elliptic problems as related to the ideas introduced by Courant, Friedrichs and Lewy in the fundamental paper published in Math. Ann. 100, 32 (1928). The discussion shows how the finite-difference methods have subsequently been extended and applied to higher order elliptic problems and how the recent literature has reported methods for solving large algebraic systems. In addition, there is a discussion of the relation between the Dirichlet problem and the problem of the random walk."
"This paper presents a numerical analysis of the mechanisms of operation within a linearly-graded p-n junction. Considered in this analysis are three important modes of junction operation: equilibrium, forward bias, and reverse bias in the collector junction. In addition, calculations of electrical space-charge layer capacitance are presented for the forward-biased linearly-graded junction. The conclusions derived are compared, in graphical form, with the results of previous investigations of the linearly-graded junction."
"Diffusion of high concentrations of P, B, and As in thin foils of silicon of (111), (110), and (100) orientations is shown to result in extensive precipitation. Observation of the precipitates through a transmission electron microscope has indicated that phosphorus diffusion gives rise to precipitate platelets. Boron precipitates were found to be of various shapes—rod, platelet, and three-dimensional. Matrix contrast observation showed that small coherent platelets of P and B are both of the “vacancy” type—this is in accordance with the smaller size of B and P atoms in the silicon matrix. Contrast studies for arsenic precipitates were inconclusive. Helical dislocations oriented along 〈220〉 directions and originating from precipitate regions were observed in the phosphorus-diffused foils; boron precipitates showed no such helices. Boron rods and three-dimensional structures, however, were invariably found to be enveloped by dislocation spirals, with Burgers vector different from the usual a/2 〈110〉 type. These dislocation envelopes are thought to be interfacial dislocations. It is concluded that the precipitates are not identifiable as discrete SiP or SixBy phases, since these phases would be expected to cause compression in the matrix because their specific volume is higher than that of silicon."
"A numerical study is made of a moving magnetic domain wall. It is assumed that the wall moves with a uniform velocity V under the influence of an applied magnetic field of magnitude H0. This leads to a boundary value problem on a doubly infinite line. By using a symmetry in the problem, the inherent difficulty of a two-dimensional search on a doubly infinite line is bypassed. For each V the problem is solved as a sequence of initial value problems involving a one-dimensional search. A limiting velocity is determined by means of an eigenvalue analysis. The curve representing the relation between V and H0 is determined for a particular case."
"This paper reports results of a detailed performance evaluation of the chain magnetic film storage element. The chains are made from copper strips which have been plated with a Ni-Fe film and are used to carry word current. The bit/sense signals are carried in wires which pass through the holes in the “links” of the chain. The memory element thus formed will operate in a rotational switching mode and can be used for a word-organized memory."
"A computer storage design using the chain store device as both a DRO and an NDRO storage element is discussed for an array organization of one megabit capacity and 500-nsec cycle time. The bit/sense system and schemes for minimizing the longitudinal fields inside the array during the “write” portion of the cycle are presented. Noise due to difference in the information states of the device is studied experimentally and through evaluations of computer solutions of simulated bit/sense lines. The word-line characteristic impedance and its dependence on the magnetic behavior of the device during the “read” portion of the cycle and on the sending and receiving end terminations are examined with consideration given to long word lines. Sources of noise and bit-to-bit interaction are discussed and comparisons between calculated and experimental results obtained from a small model of the array are given."
"A mathematical model is developed for global prediction of large-scale movements and mean properties of the atmosphere from simulated initial weather conditions. A novel feature is the development of the formulation—one of considerably greater complexity than those for previous weather models adapted to machine calculation—in a concise tensor form. The organization of the computational task illustrates how a very complex problem with vast data requirements may be solved on a computer with limited high-speed storage."
"This paper reports the observation of a new oscillatory phenomenon in n-type Ge at 77°K. The effect is a coherent oscillatory component of the current through a bar of n-type Ge with ohmic n+ contacts initiated when the average electric field in the sample exceeds some threshold value which is in the region where the electron drift velocity is nearly saturated. The frequencies of the oscillations vary from a few hundred MHz to 2.8 GHz. The effect depends on sample orientation, temperature, and carrier concentration. Some possible mechanisms for this effect are discussed. At somewhat higher fields a second, not necessarily related instability, is also observed."
"The primary goal of the System/360 Model 91 development program was to produce the highest performance capability that advanced design philosophy and extensions of System/360 circuit technology could achieve, within a balanced development schedule. “Performance,” as used here, means general computer availability and high-speed execution of general problem programs."
"The System/360 Model 91 central processing unit provides internal computational performance one to two orders of magnitude greater than that of the IBM 7090 Data Processing System through a combination of advancements in machine organization, circuit design, and hardware packaging. The circuits employed will switch at speeds of less than 3 nsec, and the circuit environment is such that delay is approximately 5 nsec per circuit level. Organizationally, primary emphasis is placed on (1) alleviating the disparity between storage time and circuit speed, and (2) the development of high speed floating-point arithmetic algorithms. This paper deals mainly with item (1) of the organization. A design is described which improves the ratio of storage bandwidth and access time to cycle time through the use of storage interleaving and CPU buffer registers. It is shown that history recording (the retention of complete instruction loops in the CPU) reduces the need to exercise storage, and that sophisticated employment of buffering techniques has reduced the effective access time. The system is organized so that execution hardware is separated from the instruction unit; the resulting smaller, semiautonomous “packages” improve intra-area communication."
"The principal requirement for the Model 91 floating-point execution unit was that it be designed to support the instruction-issuing rate of the processor. The chosen solution was to develop separate, instruction-oriented algorithms for the add, multiply, and divide functions. Linked together by the floating-point instruction unit, the multiple execution units provide concurrent instruction execution at the burst rate of one instruction per cycle."
"This paper discusses the design concepts employed in the development of the IBM System/360 Model 91 storage system. Particular attention is paid to the exploitation of System/360 capabilities in the areas of large storage capacity, concurrent operation, and flexibility, as they apply to the highly overlapped Model 91 system."
"The evolution of a high-speed current switch transistor design is described from initial design considerations through final optimization of horizontal geometry. It was found that a very narrow geometry was desirable, in order to produce the desired low base resistance (∼40 Ω). Other characteristics of this design include low capacitance, well-controlled emitter forward voltage, and high-frequency cutoff. Compatibility with the SLT form factor assures manufacturability. This transistor when used in ASLT circuits yields circuit delays of 1.8 nsec."
"The full switching-speed potential of high performance transistors is difficult to realize in a current switch configuration because of the instability which exists when many circuits are interconnected in a system. With a phase compensating network in the emitter current source, however, it has been possible to design a stable circuit using 1 Gc/sec transistors. Design techniques and engineering aspects of the circuit which result in a 5-nsec in-the-environment propagation delay are described. Particular attention is given to the dc design, stability analysis, switching performance, evaluation and specification of the circuit."
"The hybrid miniaturization technique of applying active and passive components separately to a packaging substrate enables independent customization of components and minimizes stray capacitance between components. Manufacturing advantages result because all components can be pretested, and the critical component joining operation can be performed as a continuous operation. This paper describes IBM's Advanced Solid Logic Technology (ASLT) wherein the capabilities of hybrid circuit technology have been extended to produce a high-speed, high-density digital logic module compatible with automated production. Design considerations and assembly processes are detailed. A development of the power handling capability reviews the various thermal paths within the module."
"Domain wall creeping in thin magnetic Ni-Fe films has been studied as a function of the film thickness, field pulse amplitude, duration and repetition frequency, and bias fields in the hard direction. The experimental results are reviewed and compared with the three existing theories, which ascribe wall creeping to a) Bloch line motion, b) wall structure changes, and c) changing magnetic charges along the walls, respectively. Based on the first theory, methods are indicated by which a reduction of creep sensitivity of magnetic films might be obtained."
"A procedure for determination of phase composition of commercial cement clinker using quantitative x-ray powder diffraction analysis is described. An external standard and comparison of peak heights rather than the peak areas are used for rapid analysis. Several standard curves were prepared using diffraction patterns from known mixtures of previously prepared pure components which exist in cement clinker. For purposes of comparison, both the suggested external standard method and the internal standard method which is generally accepted for quantitative X-ray diffraction analysis were used. It was found that the faster external standard method gives analysis of important clinker constituents with accuracy adequate for quality control in a cement plant. With the use of suggested grinding procedure and an automatic sample changer attachment to standard X-ray diffraction equipment, it is possible to obtain an on-line analysis of clinker in one half hour. This analysis can then be deployed in performing closed loop control of a cement kiln with a proposed algorithm."
"In a recent paper by Roth,1 a method called the D-algorithm was developed for generating diagnostic tests for failures in acyclic switching circuits. o Of tnhee innovations of his D-algorithm was that it could follow parallel paths, or “chains” of paths, carrying the “failure” signal to the outputs. This allows him to guarantee finding diagnostic tests for failures in circuits with reconverging fan-out, something none of the old “sensitized path” algorithms could do. However, an example demonstrating the need for examining chains was not presented in the paper. To give such an example is the object of this letter."
"This paper describes the methods employed in the floating-point area of the System/360 Model 91 to exploit the existence of multiple execution units. Basic to these techniques is a simple common data busing and register tagging scheme which permits simultaneous execution of independent instructions while preserving the essential precedences inherent in the instruction stream. The common data bus improves performance by efficiently utilizing the execution units without requiring specially optimized code. Instead, the hardware, by ‘looking ahead’ about eight instructions, automatically optimizes the program execution on a local basis. The application of these techniques is not limited to floating-point arithmetic or System/360 architecture. It may be used in almost any computer having multiple execution units and one or more ‘accumulators.’ Both of the execution units, as well as the associated storage buffers, multiple accumulators and input/output buses, are extensively checked."
"The structure connections between the endomorphisms, automorphisms, and all congruence relations of an arbitrary, not necessarily finite or strongly connected automaton are investigated. It is shown how the symmetries of an automaton carry over to symmetries of the lattice of congruence relations and to symmetries of quotient automata. A Galois connection is established between the endomorphisms and the congruence relations of an automaton."
"The structure connections between the endomorphisms, automorphisms, and all congruence relations of an arbitrary, not necessarily finite or strongly connected automaton are investigated. It is shown how the symmetries of an automaton carry over to symmetries of the lattice of congruence relations and to symmetries of quotient automata. A Galois connection is established between the endomorphisms and the congruence relations of an automaton."
"A study is made of the classes of predicates accepted by three types of multitape Turing machine. In order of decreasing acceptance powers, these are the general Turing machine, the Linear-Bounded Automaton, and the multitape two-way nonwriting automaton. Each class is shown to consist of all and only those predicates which can be defined by a corresponding class of predicate calculus formulas based on one-sided catenation with letters, and involving as logical operators conjunction, disjunction, and a type of transitive closure on predicates of 2n variables."
"Autonomous sequential networks are represented by transformation graphs, i.e., finite directed graphs, each vertex of which has out degree one. A network that can be realized by a set of simpler, parallel networks corresponds to a transformation graph representable as a cartesian product of simpler graphs. An algorithm for obtaining the various decompositions of a given transformation graph into irreducible factors is presented. The particular decompositions into a minimum number of factors and into factors of smallest size are directly reached by the method."
"Let Sigma* be the set of all tapes over Sigma and let psi : Sigma * $\\rarr$ [0, 1]. The problem of approximating such functions (which can be defined, in particular, by probabilistic automata) by nonprobabilistic automata is investigated, in several aspects."
"In this paper two closely related problems in automata theory are considered: 1) What is the time required for a network of elements, each with a limited number of inputs, to compute a finite function? 2) What is the time required for a finite automaton, realized as such a network, to compute its output function? Winograd has considered the first problem, especially for addition and group multiplication [1] and numerical multiplication [2]. By laying bare the methodology implicit in his work, we form a basis upon which we can erect a thoroughgoing analysis of multiplication in groups and semigroups and also can analyze computation of various finite functions. This paper presents the beginning of such an analysis."
"This paper studies decompositions of regular events into star events, i.e. events of the form W = V*. Mathematically, the structure of a star event is that of a monoid. First it is shown that every regular event contains a finite number of maximal star events, which are shown to be regular and can be effectively computed. Necessary and sufficient conditions for a regular event to be the union of its maximal star events are found. Next, star events are factored out from arbitrary events, yielding the form W=V*T. For each W there exists a unique largest V* and a unique smallest T; an algorithm for finding suitable regular expressions for V and T is developed. Finally, an open problem of Paz and Peleg is answered: Every regular event is decomposable as a finite product of star events and prime events."
"This paper presents some results concerning the star height of regular events. First we consider the behavior of star height under various operations on regular events and it is proved that star height is preserved under the derivative operation. The relation of star height of a regular event to the cycle rank of the reduced state graph of the corresponding finite automaton is studied. This investigation leads to sufficient conditions for the star height to be equal to the rank of the state graph. For example, this is true for events defined by permutation automata with a single output state. Families of regular events of arbitrary star height are exhibited. Finally, some open questions posed by Eggan regarding star height and rank are answered."
"Various procedures have long been known for synthesizing a sequential machine with a feedback shift-register if each state is to have exactly one assignment; however, these approaches fail if each state is allowed to have more than one assignment. Herein lies the equivalent-state problem. The equivalent-state problem is approached by establishing a relationship between feedback shift-register realizable flow tables and finite memory-span. From this relationship, a necessary and sufficient condition is derived for the realizability of a sequential machine with a feedback shift-register. The concept of the pair-graph is introduced which is used to bound the level and length of the feedback shift-register realization of a sequential machine. From an investigation of the pair-graph, recursive procedures arise which test sequential machines in which each state has L distinct successors for L-level feedback shift-register realizability. The complexity of feedback shift-register synthesis of more general machines is demonstrated."
"Various procedures have long been known for synthesizing a sequential machine with a feedback shift-register if each state is to have exactly one assignment; however, these approaches fail if each state is allowed to have more than one assignment. Herein lies the equivalent-state problem. The equivalent-state problem is approached by establishing a relationship between feedback shift-register realizable flow tables and finite memory-span. From this relationship, a necessary and sufficient condition is derived for the realizability of a sequential machine with a feedback shift-register. The concept of the pair-graph is introduced which is used to bound the level and length of the feedback shift-register realization of a sequential machine. From an investigation of the pair-graph, recursive procedures arise which test sequential machines in which each state has L distinct successors for L-level feedback shift-register realizability. The complexity of feedback shift-register synthesis of more general machines is demonstrated."
"The investigation presents explicit interconnections between inverse problems in the theories of convolutional codes, automata, and continuous time linear dynamical systems. In a code-generating, or transfer function, matrix framework, necessary and sufficient conditions are given for a feedforward linear sequential circuit to have a feedforward inverse, either instantaneous or with delay. In the corresponding state-oriented realization, techniques which have been applied to construct inverses for continuous time linear dynamical systems are used to outline the construction of inverse automata. Finally, the feedforward inverse results are applied to continuous time systems. Relationships between the results are discussed."
"In this paper we are concerned with the decomposition of synchronous sequential machines into interconnections of component machines. The term interconnection is taken literally; the input terminals of a component machine must be directly connected to either i) a logical constant, ii) an output terminal of a component machine, or iii) an external input line. A fundamental question regarding such decompositions is \"Does there exist a finite set of component machines such that any given machine can be realized by an interconnection of copies of the component machines?\" The answers to this and related questions comprise the scope of the paper."
"Properties of self-dual and self-complementary dual functions are discussed. Necessary and sufficient conditions of selfdual and self-complementary dual functions are obtained in terms of the multithreshold weight threshold vector. In particular self-dual and self-complementary dual functions are shown to be realizable respectively by an odd and even number of effective thresholds only. A threshold, Tj, is effective if EMIN ≪ Tj ≪ EMAX. It is shown that an n+1 variable self-dual and self-complementary dual function can always be generated from a 1- and 2-effective threshold weight threshold vector of an n-variable Boolean function, respectively. If the number of effective thresholds exceeds 2, then constraints on the thresholds must be met in order to generate n+1 variable self-dual and self-complementary dual functions. Such generations of self-dual and self-cornplementary dual functions are shown to correspond to the functional forms of self-dualization and self-complementary dualization of an n-variable Boolean function. Moreover, they are realized by the same threshold vector, T $\\rarr$;. Furthemore, it is shown that if an n-variable Boolean function Fn(X$\\rarr$) is self-dual or self-complementary dual with weight threshold vector [Wn$\\rarr$; T$\\rarr$], then an n+m variable self-dual or self-complementary dual Boolean function Fn+m(X$\\rarr$), where m is any positive integer, can be realized by a weight threshold vector [Wn+m$\\rarr$; T$\\rarr$]. The above-cited weight vectors Wn and Wn+m, are constrained by Sigma i=1n wi = Sigma i=1n+m wi. If Sigma |wi|= Sigma i=1n+m |wi|, then optimal realization vectors seem to be obtained. Similarly n-m variable self-dual or self-complementary dual functions can like-wise be obtained; however, realization vectors are in general not optimal in nature. Since self-complementary dual functions can always be obtained for 2-threshold realizable functions, the present discussion suggests the classification of 2-threshold realizable functions by self-complementary dual functions."
"A cellular structure (\"transfer logic\") suitable for implementing sequential networks, is described in this paper. A method is given for obtaining, for a given flow table, a transfer logic assignment employing the minimal number of state variables. The method is based on the properties of partitions of the set of internal states."
"By analysing an ideal model of a redundancy scheme, a measure for the reliability improvement produced by a redundancy scheme is found; and it is shown that for real redundancy schemes this measure is effectively independent of the size of system to which the scheme is applied. Other advantages of the measure are that it is relatively easy to evaluate, and has a good sensitivity characteristic. This measure, together with a redundancy \"cost\" factor, represents the performance of a redundancy scheme more generally than was previously possible. A new high performance redundancy scheme - \"radial logic\" is described, and its error correcting action explained. It can be applied to combinational and sequential logic circuitry, and in this application appears to have a better performance than other schemes, as well as being simple to design, and offering considerable flexibility in the degree of error correction."
"A group function is defined as a mapping from the boolean m-cube, Xm, into a finite group. When m=l, we speak of an elementary group function (or, cell). A group function f into a group H is said to be decomposable over a group G if it can be expressed as a composition of elementary group functions into G. This composition corresponds to a cascade connection of combinational cells realizing the elementary group functions, where the overall cascade realizes the group function f, in turn representing a multi-output boolean function. The basic concepts and results of Yoeli and Turner on decomposition of group functions into the Klein four-group and the alternating group of degree four are here extended to arbitrary finite groups. A useful sufficient condition for decomposability is obtained, and a general characterization derived for pairs of groups, G,H, such that all group functions into H are decomposable over G. These results are applied to the synthesis of canonical multirail logical cascade networks for the realization of r independently specified boolean functions on r rails, and comparisons are made of the efficiency of the different composition techniques that have been proposed."
"This paper explains our approach to the problem of pattern recognition by serial computer. The rudimentary theory of vision presented here lies within the framework of automata theory. Our goal is to classify the types of patterns that can be recognized by an automaton that scans a finite 2-dimensional tape. For example, we would like to know if an automaton can decide whether or not a given pattern on a tape forms a connected region. Although we have solved a number of problems, we have failed to solve this connectedness problem. This paper merely begins to describe the action of automata in higher dimensions. Our goal now is to generalize the theory presented here and make it applicable to a wide variety of pattern-recognizing machines."
"Cellular logic arrays are beginning to take on an increasingly greater importance in digital technology, mainly because of their numerous advantages for the design, manufacture, and use in digital systems employing large-scale integrated semiconductor arrays. Particularly significant among these advantages is the feature of testability. One would naturally expect that the iterative structure and the short intercell connections of a cellular logic array would allow it to be tested from its edge terminals much more easily than a relatively disorganized interconnection of the same number of gates. In this paper we confirm this conjecture, and we describe procedures for deriving minimal (or near-minimal) schedules of test inputs, to be applied to a combinational cellular array in order to detect the presence of any single faulty cell. In addition, necessary and sufficient conditions are presented for some types of arrays of unilaterally connected, identical cells to be completely testable for single faults. For one-dimensional arrays, these conditions are based upon known results in sequential network theory. For two-dimensional arrays, a relationship to the \"domino problem\" (which is known to be insoluble) is described, but is shown to be largely avoidable and nonrestricting in the present case."
"An automaton called the balloon automaton is defined. The balloon automaton comes in four varieties, depending on whether the device is deterministic or nondeterministic, and whether the input head can move in one or two directions. Subsets of the balloon automata of each variety, called closed classes are defined. Almost all the known types of automata are equivalent to some closed class of balloon automata. Properties of closed classes are given. For example, whatever the variety, the languages accepted by a closed class are closed under intersection with a regular set. For a given organization of storage, closed classes of the four varieties can be defined. These four classes are said to form a family. A class may be recursive or not, and the emptiness problem may be solvable or unsolvable. Some surprising relationships exist between the recursiveness and solvability of emptiness for the classes in a family."
"An automaton called the balloon automaton is defined. The balloon automaton comes in four varieties, depending on whether the device is deterministic or nondeterministic, and whether the input head can move in one or two directions. Subsets of the balloon automata of each variety, called closed classes are defined. Almost all the known types of automata are equivalent to some closed class of balloon automata. Properties of closed classes are given. For example, whatever the variety, the languages accepted by a closed class are closed under intersection with a regular set. For a given organization of storage, closed classes of the four varieties can be defined. These four classes are said to form a family. A class may be recursive or not, and the emptiness problem may be solvable or unsolvable. Some surprising relationships exist between the recursiveness and solvability of emptiness for the classes in a family."
"This paper describes some general results about hierarchies of undecidable problems in automata theory, and studies how properties of sets accepted by automata change from decidable to undecidable problems as the memory capacity of the automaton is increased."
"The notion of an abstract family of languages (AFL) as a family of sets of words satisfying certain properties common to many types of formal languages is introduced. Operations preserving AFL are then considered. The concept of an abstract family of acceptors (AFA) is also introduced and shown to give rise to an AFL. A necessary and sufficient condition on an AFL is presented in order that the AFL come from some AFA. Finally, abstract families of transducers (AFA with output) are discussed."
"In this paper we consider the problem of deriving general bounds on the number of state variables required to realize an asynchronous flow table as a function of n, the number of states of the flow table for Single Transition Time (STT) assignments in which all variables which must change in a given transition are allowed to change simultaneously in a noncritical race."
"This paper describes some general results about hierarchies of undecidable problems in automata theory, and studies how properties of sets accepted by automata change from decidable to undecidable problems as the memory capacity of the automaton is increased."
"Presents the cover from the proceedings of this conference."
"Presents the introductory welcome message from the conference proceedings. May include the conference officers' congratulations to all involved with the conference event and publication of the proceedings record."
"deterministic automata are defined in an attempt to capture the essential features of an iterative one-dimensional array of finite-state machines operating under the direction of a central control where at discrete time steps each machine in the chain is receiving the same instruction as each of the other machines. Each machine in the array is also capable of direct communication only with immediately neighboring machines. Some general theory is developed, and the sets of strings definable by these automata are described."
"In this paper, we present a procedure for realizing any normal mode flow table by an asynchronous sequential circuit with a single pure delay, so that no hazards are present even if several input variables change in a transition. A modification of Unger's single delay realization is also proposed in order to allow several inputs to change in a transition without producing output transients. We also show how any normal mode flow table can be realized without inserted delay elements if a restriction on the relative magnitudes of line and gate delays is satisfied and only one input variable is allowed to change in a transition."
"The \"computational schema\" is introduced as a means for describing asynchronous, multiprocess computations. Communication constraints which guarantee determinacy of schema execution are developed, and an effective procedure for determining the equivalence of deterministic schemata is presented."
"The notion of behavior is defined for an asynchronous digital network. A necessary and sufficient condition for the existence of a network having a given behavior is that the behavior be regular in a general sense."
"In this paper we report some results of a study on the range of possible structure of programming languages. The main emphasis is on the range of graphical (\"topological\" or flowchart) and syntactic structure. For the sake of simplicity and precision we rather severely limit the \"semantic structure\" of the languages--we restrict ourselves to command (instruction) languages for Turing machines. As we show, this apparently strong limitation imposes very little restriction on the graphical and syntactic structure. The bulk of the paper consists of the presentation of six Turing machine languages. These languages serve to illustrate the range of possible structure and, more important, they allow us to establish the range of a number of structural parameters. All the languages are universal in the sense that in each one we can program every computable function. However, they differ greatly in syntax, graphical structure, ease of compilation (assembly), and in the type of machine, if any, which can operate directly in the language. In brief, we present languages with finite-state, context-free and more complex syntax; languages with \"conventional\" graphical structure, with block structure and only one transfer per block, with only nested transfers (nested loops), with transfers only to the immediately neighboring instructions, and with only one transfer per program."
"In this paper we report some results of a study on the range of possible structure of programming languages. The main emphasis is on the range of graphical (\"topological\" or flowchart) and syntactic structure. For the sake of simplicity and precision we rather severely limit the \"semantic structure\" of the languages--we restrict ourselves to command (instruction) languages for Turing machines. As we show, this apparently strong limitation imposes very little restriction on the graphical and syntactic structure. The bulk of the paper consists of the presentation of six Turing machine languages. These languages serve to illustrate the range of possible structure and, more important, they allow us to establish the range of a number of structural parameters. All the languages are universal in the sense that in each one we can program every computable function. However, they differ greatly in syntax, graphical structure, ease of compilation (assembly), and in the type of machine, if any, which can operate directly in the language. In brief, we present languages with finite-state, context-free and more complex syntax; languages with \"conventional\" graphical structure, with block structure and only one transfer per block, with only nested transfers (nested loops), with transfers only to the immediately neighboring instructions, and with only one transfer per program."
"By generalizing the notions of a one counter machine and of a finite turn pushdown store automaton, it is possible to define an omega 2-hierarchy of families of context-free languages such that each subfamily is infinite, closed under union, concatenation and closure, homomorphism, intersection with regular sets and inverse homomorphism and reversal. Each subfamily can be characterized in a manner akin to the Chomsky-Schutzenberger characterization of the context-free languages. Whenever two subfamilies are incomparable it is undecidable whether a member of one belongs to the other."
"A stack automaton is a device with a pushdown list which can be read by its storage head in a read only mode. In this paper, we show two properties of stack automata with a one-way input. (1) If a language is accepted by a nondeterministic one-way stack automaton, then it is accepted by a deterministic linear bounded automaton. (2) If a language, L, is accepted by a deterministic one-way stack automaton, and R is a regular set, then L/R = {x for some y in R, xy is in L} is accepted by a deterministic one-way stack automaton."
"A new form of grammar, which is called a programmed grammar, is defined and some of its properties are described. Programmed grammars are a generalization of phrase structure grammars where each production has a label, a core consisting of an ordinary phrase structure production, and two associated sets of production labels. If a production can be applied to an intermediate string in a derivation, it is applied as far to the left as possible, and the next production to be used is selected from the first set of labels. If the production cannot be applied to the intermediate string, the next production is selected from the other set of labels. The generative power of programmed grammars with various types of production cores is investigated. The additional machinery of programmed grammars does not add any additional generative power if the cores are arbitrary, context sensitive, linear, or one-sided linear. However, programmed grammars whose cores contain a single symbol on the lefthand side and an arbitrary string on the righthand side can generate all recursively enumerable languages. The class of languages generated by grammars of this type with the additional restriction that the righthand side of a production core cannot be the null string is properly contained with the context sensitive languages and properly contains the context free languages. For grammars of this type, called cfpg's, the emptiness and finiteness problems are undecidable. In addition every recursively enumerable language can be obtained from a cfpg language by a homomorphism. The subset of cfpg's for which the two sets of production labels are the same for each production is also considered. The class of languages generated by these grammars is properly contained within the cfpg languages and properly contains the context free languages. Furthermore, the emptiness problem is decidable for these grammars. This paper is an extended abstract based on the author's doctoral thesis."
"A new type of grammar, called an indexed grammar, is defined. The language generated by an indexed grammar is called an indexed language. The class of indexed languages properly includes the class of context free languages and is a proper subset of the class of context sensitive languages. The closure properties and decidability results for the class of indexed languages are similar to those for the class of context free languages. An exact characterization of this new class of languages is provided by a new recognition device called a nested stack automaton. Special cases of the nested stack automaton include the pushdown automaton, the stack automaton, and the reading pushdown automaton. The class of indexed languages seems to be a closer approximation to the class of algorithmic programming languages than either the class of context free languages or the class of context sensitive languages."
"Presents the table of contents for the proceedings."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"This paper reviews the work carried out at the Atomic Energy Research Establishment (AERE) since 1963 in connection with the development of isotope-powered thermoelectric generators, known as RIPPLEs. It outlines the criteria considered for the selection of strontium 90 as the radioisotope, the design of the generators, the choice of material for the biological shield, and the development of the thermal insulation. It briefly discusses the voltage conversion system employed and states safety design considerations. The paper concludes by discussing the effect of efficiency on the cost of generators and shows typical costs curves."
"The many advantages of junction field-effect transistors (FET) in commutation applications have prompted a serious effort to extend the technology without sacrificing performance and, in many areas, to realize an improvement over low-level commutator performance attainable by more conventional electronic means (especially Bright switches), so that these devices may be employed in general application, high-accuracy, low-level commutation. This paper is devoted to a generalization of knowledge recently gained during the development of such equipment, which will aid potential designers and users in their understanding and application of low-level FET commutators. A discussion of device characteristics is offered as the starting point of design. A number of topics are then discussed, including offset drift and scatter, gain drift and scatter, source and amplifier loading, crosstalk, and common-mode rejection. Also, several useful design guidelines, in the form of generalized expressions, are derived or furnished for the reader's use. Finally, in order to lend veracity to the design techniques suggested, the performance data of a low-level FET commutator developed following these techniques are offered for consideration."
"The performance of an inertial autonavigator can only be as good as the accuracy to which the system is initially aligned. Optical methods of alignment can be performed with high precision; however, this technique requires external equipment and is subject to some physical constraints, such as land-based operation. The general problem discussed here is the use of an automatic azimuth alignment technique known as gyrocompassing. In the use of the gyrocompassing technique to obtain azimuth alignment, accuracies are degraded considerably by two dominant error sources, the level axis controlling gyro drift rate and the imperfections of reference or independent velocity information. Consequently, an optimum performance controller is developed for driving the system in this mechanization and is based on a priori knowledge of the second-order statistics of the system error sources. The performance criteria will be to minimize the mean square azimuth error."
"The electrical power systems of orbiting unmanned spacecraft generally consist of energy-conversion devices in combination with energy-storage and conditioning components. The development of efficient pulse-duration modulation regulators suggests configurations smaller, lighter, and cheaper than conventional dissipative voltage regulators. These savings may or may not be realizable, depending upon the system reliability design goal and amount of redundancy required to meet the goal. Three spacecraft electrical power systems, each containing a solar-cell energy converter and using different voltage regulation schemes, are compared for a common mission specification. Each system is made to meet a given reliability goal by a technique that adds redundant components in a manner that minimizes a system design characteristic such as weight. The reliability design goal is kept constant as mission length is increased, permitting system comparison in terms of weight and cost as a function of time."
"The clutter performance of a radar using coherent pulse train signls depends upon the phase and amplitude weighting used on transmit and receive. This paper describes an iterative technique to determine better weightings. Each iteration improves the signal-to-interference ratio, where the interference is the sum of the mean square noise voltage and the mean square clutter voltage at the time of peak signal. Two examples are presented to illustrate the method and to demonstrate that in many cases the procedure will yield weightings that may be used in a system where the transmitter permits no amplitude weighting."
"The Theory and experimental results of a simple optical correlator are given. The optical components consist only of an incoherent source, condensing, collimating, and transforming lenses, and a photodetector. For real-time operation, a reference signal on a photographic transparency is correlated with an unknown signal on an ultrasonic light modulator. The output is a function of time proportional to the correlation function's amplitude rather than the squared amplitude generated by other optical correlators. When used for correlation in radar signal processing, the optical processor may be used for both pulse coding and decoding (pulse expansion and compression) and the decoded signal is shown to be described by Woodward's ambiguity function. The experimental results demonstrated the validity of the theory in both real and scaled time. However, developmental work is still required to improve the operation."
"The output of a realizable balanced frequency discriminator is calculated for an input consisting of a sine wave plus Gaussian noise. Explicit autocorrelation and power spectra are found for one practical embodiment of the discriminator for various input carrier-to-noise ratios, with the carrier tuned to center frequency and also off-center. The formulas also permit the calculation of the output for the case of a spectrum of noise slowly swept through the discriminator. Although qualitatively similar to results previously obtained with an ideal discriminator, substantial differences are also found. Measurements are made that closely verified the theoretical results. No limiting is assumed."
"The azimuth and elevation angles of an airborne beacon transmitter can be determined using a direction finder comprised of two orthogonal interferometers located near the earth's surface. In this paper we consider the reflection of the incident electromagnetic field by the earth's surface and the resultant effect on the direction-finding system. The analysis yields an upper bound or limit to the interferometer phase error and the corresponding error in bearing angle that can result because of specular reflection and diffuse scattering."
"As electronic devices became increasingly more complex, it was no longer feasible to test such mechanisms with traditional methods. With practically no transition period, the need for a new technology came into existence. The amazing lack of an organized approach in the development of automatic testing techniques has been a handicap to much needed progress. This paper discusses some of the many problem areas that should be considered in the design of the software for a sophisticated checkout project."
"Automated learning methods can be used to design fault diagnosis procedures. When the characteristics of the measurements that distinguish the various faults are unknown, they can be ``learned'' from example measurements on faulty systems. A learning algorithm is presented for determining which of several possible faults exists in a system. The procedure is demonstrated on a system where the test conditions preclude the use of traditional diagnosis procedures. When applied to actual hardware, the experimental results show good agreement with the theoretical limit of diagnosability. The resulting diagnosis is faster, simpler, and requires fewer measurements than other methods."
"Increasingly, digital computers are being incorporated as major hard-ware subsystems in today's large support and operational systems. As a result, computer programs and complex operational procedures, software, are also becoming major system elements. Contrary to much current practice, software must be managed, engineered, and controlled in the same manner as hardware if past pitfalls are to be avoided. NASA's NPC 500-1 and the USAF 375 series establish a basis for an effective hardware/software systems development methodology that must be adopted by both hardware and software engineers and managers."
"On-board/in-flight checkout of future aerospace systems will necessitate a fundamental departure from today's design and checkout activities. The interrelationship of checkout, incorporated into prime vehicular functions, man as a subsystem, and standardization Of hardware/software must be considered as a functional and integral entity if the efforts of today's long-range planning are to become tomorrow's reality. This paper will describe future systems checkout, maintenance and support considerations, and actions and tentative measures necessary for implementation. The realization of the implementation of these concepts into functional elements will depend, accurately and economically, upon the degree of government perceptiveness and the extent of industrial support."
"This paper discusses an approach to the analysis of existing support systems and provides a guide for the planning of new systems. An analysis of the basic elements of a support system is presented and, having defined a set of basic elements for a support system, this paper then applies these elements to the special problems of a multipurpose tester. Several examples of the interface element are presented, each example providing a different approach to the solution of the interface problem, and the relative merits of each solution are discussed."
"In a paper on radar frequency modulations, Schweppe (IEEE Trans. Military Electronics, vol. MIL-9, pp. 25-32, Jan. 1965) developed a simple design principle: \"The target's position is obtained from the modulation while the target's motion (velocity and acceleration) is obtained from the RF phase.\" It was also pointed out that the modulation should be selected to be orthogonal to the target motion so the modulation will not interfere with the motion estimates. Having satisfied the orthogonality constraint, that modulation is selected that provides the best range estimate. The \"best\" estimate sought was that which minimized the variance of the range estimate. Designing a radar pulse so as to minimize the variance of an estimate corresponds to the designing of an ambiguity function with a sharp central peak at the true values of the parameters with no regard to the rest of its shape. This analysis was carried out (the solutions in each case are nonunique), the function is plotted for five and seven switching points, as well as 3 and 3. It is shown from these results that an optimal frequency-modulated pulse for an accelerating target with three switching points yields the most desirable ambiguity function."
"It is shown that it is possible to construct sets of binary sequences each of length equal to 4N (where N is any natural number), which have the property that the sum of their 2N truncated autocorrelation functions is zero except for zero shift. The number of such sequences in any set is equal to 2N. The autor uses the term \"broad sense complementary\" sequences to describe the sets of codes with the above properties."
"The distortion of the FM-FM Saturn telemetry system for dc input (static error) has been the subject of many studies. The purpose of this correspondence is to measure the additional distortion (dynamic error) that results when the input signal is time-varying. A digital method is developed for measuring both the system delay and the system mean square error for various input signals."
"This index covers all technical items - papers, correspondence, reviews, etc. - that appeared in this periodical during the year, and items from previous years that were commented upon or corrected in this year. Departments and other items may also be covered if they have been judged to have archival value. The Author Index contains the primary entry for each item, listed under the first author's name. The primary entry includes the coauthors' names, the title of the paper or other item, and its location, specified by the publication abbreviation, year, month, and inclusive pagination. The Subject Index contains entries describing the item under all appropriate subject headings, plus the first author's name, the publication abbreviation, month, and year, and inclusive pages. Note that the item title is found only under the primary entry in the Author Index."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"There is a direct correlation between proposal success and proposal ethics, a fact which is independent of the proposal scope or the type of customer. To be successful, a proposal must result in a profit when measured within the total environment of present and future sales. A misleading or unethical proposal has little chance of leading to an immediate contract, is most likely to incur cost penalties if a contract does result, and is certain to reduce the probabilities for future sales. Unfortunately proposals tend to deal in that gray area between fact and fiction; the normal desire to present things in their most favorable light leads to misrepresentation. In his own professional interests the proposal engineer must learn to give an honest and accurate portrayal of his plan and his product."
"The amplitude and power of a large family of radio signals are observed to have log-normal probability density functions. Among these are signals propagated through random inhomogeneous media, a notable example being low frequency atmospheric radio noise. Of greater importance are certain radar targets that have been observed to have essentially log-normal density functions. Both ships and space vehicles may fall into this category. Curves of probability of detection vs. signal-to-noise ratio for the case of log-normal signals in Gaussian noise have been computed and are presented in this paper. The curves apply for square-law detection with varying degrees of postdetection linear integration. Both fully correlated and completely uncorrelated fluctuating signals are considered. It is shown that for log-normal signal distributions having large variances, the probability of detection differs significantly from that obtained using curves based on an assumed Rayleigh signal distribution."
"This paper develops a set of mathematical tools for system design or analysis of a type of pseudorandom coded ranging system used in several space programs. Certain probabilities of failure of the system to perform the ranging function and the times required for the system to perform prescribed ranging functions are defined and related to system parameters. A set of sample calculations is presented for clarification of the computational techniques."
"The analysis and comments presented in this paper are meant to establish the general communication parameters associated with Martian flyby probes and with lander and manned vehicles. Fundamental data transfer problems are reviewed to define comparisons and trends of tradeoffs for future studies. Selected focal points are based upon the long propagation path length, with inherent time delays, and the high noise produced by the sun. These problems are magnified because large quantities of data must be obtained to satisfy the needs of the scientific community and the curiosity of an interested public. A comparison of two communication systems is provided: the microwave spectrum and the optical spectrum, as represented by the microwaves at 2.3 GHz and the laser at 6328 Å. A method of cost effectiveness or value received from space missions (a criterion of power input for data quantity received) is also presented."
"The performance of FM multivibrator systems for high quality communications applications is limited by the presence of unwanted spectral components. A theory is presented for an improved system in which unwanted spectral components are cancelled, achieved by generating a cancelling component in a square-law device. The cancelling component tracks the unwanted component in both frequency and amplitude over a wide bandwidth of signal frequencies. Reductions in magnitude of the unwanted components by at least 16 dB are predicted; reductions of better than 14 dB have been achieved in practice."
"Two types of feedback systems for a command channel are described. a) Complex Feedback-where, for each command, an identification is relayed back over the feedback channel. b) Decision Feedback-where the feedback channel is used only to state whether the satellite recognized the transmission as a command word. For a), the decision as to whether a command was properly received at the satellite is made on the ground, while for b), the decision is made at the satellite, the only purpose of the feedback channel being to cause the ground station to retransmit the command word if the satellite did not recognize the initial transmission. The decision feedback system then amounts to a one-way channel, since the satellite makes a decision after the initial transmission as to whether or not a command word was sent. If the transmitted command word is interpreted as a command, whether correct or not, the ground station has no further control. The following theorem is proved rigorously: ''It is always possible to specify a decision feedback system which gives the same error performance as a given complex feedback system.''"
"This paper describes the theory and design of an advanced engineering prototype of a quantile system of data compression for space telemetry. The basic idea is to transmit a few quantiles (or percentage points, as they are sometimes called) of a histogram of experimental values formed aboard a spacecraft. Only these quantiles are transmitted to Earth, and yet a large part of the information that was contained in the original histogram can be reconstructed on Earth. Compression ratios on the order of 100 to 1 are obtainable at 100 percent efficiency (in the sense of variances of estimates) with a simple device that performs no on-board arithmetic operations. After summarizing the theoretical background governing the use of quantiles, we then consider what the design considerations of such a system should be. Data compression ratios are computed for a typical application of the quantile system. The detail description of the advanced engineering quantile system that has been built at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory is discussed; in addition, a block diagram is given and analyzed. An important feature of the quantile system is its self-adaptive feature. Examples are given whereby quantile systems for compressing telemetry data can find application in non-military and non-space technology. Finally, experimental results using the constructed system are given."
"Random bit errors that occur in PCM data during the various phases of the telemetry-data-processing system will not only add a component of mean square error to the experimental data but will also bias it. This paper derives a formula for the bias and describes some of the characteristics of the bias."
"A special-purpose adaptive machine is described which carries out estimation in real time of an unknown binary waveform which is perturbed with additive Gaussian noise. Unknown waveforms of over 103 samples in duration can be recovered. The unknown waveforms are of unknown epoch and can reappear at either random or periodic time intervals. The observed signal is received at moderate or low signal-to-noise ratios so that a single observation of the received data (even if one knew the precise signal arrival time) is not sufficient to provide a good estimate of the signal waveshape. Experimental results are described which show transient behavior waveform estimate. The transient behavior is expressed as the number of errors in the current estimate of the signal plotted vs. time. In a noisy environment, each ``learning'' transient is a random time function. These learning transients are shown for several different signal-to-noise ratios and indicate the threshold noise levels for various types of initial states of the machine memory."
"Two versions of a microwave feedback radiometer have been built and tested. One used an electromechanical feedback system; the other, an all-electronic system. The response of the servo loops proved to be fast enough and linear enough for almost any radiometer application. The rms noise fluctuation was the same as that of a Dicke radiometer. Stability was excellent even under adverse environmental conditions."
"This paper describes a technique for providing phase compensation to signals received at widely-spaced antennas and processed at a central location. Self-compensation is provided for pathlength variations in reference-signal distribution systems. The technique may be adapted to include the measurement and compensation of signal-channel phase variations. Practical systems which require this type of compensation include interferometric systems used for position and position-rate measurements of missiles and spacecraft, interferometers and arrays of antennas used for radio and radar astronomy, and arrays of large-aperture antennas used for deep-space communications."
"The wide variety of applications for deep submergence vehicles gives rise to a complex set of command and control requirements. An over-view of the command control requirements is presented by setting forth a catalog of the deep submergence vehicle family in terms of type and mission. The vehicle types are categorized by a set of eight descriptors, manned/unmanned, free/tethered, suspended/bottomed, and propelled/inert. The missions considered are search, rescue, salvage, and exploration, implantation, exploitation. The limiting requirements for the various levels of command and control are related to this spectrum of vehicles and missions. The command/control systems for several vehicles are illustrated."
"The importance of solar cells for space power supplies continues with increased emphasis. The need for advances in the design of solar cell arrays becomes more pressing as the requirement for increased power levels is apparent. This paper discusses a flexible solar cell concept, includes a brief history of the development, describes a conceptual design for a 20-kW array, giving weight breakdown, and describes an existing design effort."
"The Automatic System Controller (ASC) is a very simple automatic data processing system designed to provide unattended operation of the R-31 receiver, a sweeping microwave receiver. With the receiver set to operate in the scanning mode, its video output is processed by the ASC, which recognizes by thresholding the presence of a signal in the receiver pass band. When the threshold is exceeded, a receiver sweep stop is actuated, an appropriate receiver mode is selected, and an on-site tape recorder is turned on. To enhance signal acquisition, the ASC provides noise leveling gain control, the gating of undesirable signals, and useful aids for an operator attending the receiver."
"This paper describes an experimental study of the effect of continuous wave (CW) interference and white noise on a second-order phase-lock loop. The reciprocal of the loop mean-square phase error is used as an index of performance, and the effect of interference levels that do not cause cycle skipping or loss of lock is described in terms of this index. Loop thresholds are determined by measurement of cycle-skipping rates. Stationary or slowly-sweeping CW interference caused a degradation in loop threshold of roughly 3 dB for every 6 dB of interference power above the noise power level. The effective loop signal-to-noise ratio was decreased approximately 1 dB at interference-to-noise power ratios of -3 dB. Interference levels equal to the signal level consistently caused loss of lock, regardless of the loop signal-to-noise ratio."
"The autocorrelation functions øI(τ) and øII(τ) of Codes I and II are shown in Figs. 1 and 2, respectively. Several interesting points are noted from a comparison of these figures."
"Figure 1 shows the cross correlation øpp(τ) of the plus code in the moving window with a plus code followed by a plus code. Figure 2 shows the cross correlation øpn(τ) of the code in the window with a plus code followed by a minus code.4 The displacement variable τ is quantized into bit lengths. The point τ = 0 is where the pluss code in the Window completely overlaps the first plus code, and the point τ = 52 is where the plus code in the window completely overlaps the code which follows the first code.5 (This code is a plus code in the case illustrated in Fig. 1 and a minus code in the case illustrated in Fig. 2.)"
"The subject of this correspondence is relevant to a type of passive electronic countermeasure known under the code name of \"confusion chaff.\" It consists of metal strips or wires dispensed in a proper place in space so as to produce radar echoes similar to those of real targets of interest to the defense. We wish to concentrate here on the phase where medium in which chaff is deposited is dense, and where chaff becomes ineffective since it either burns up or slows down, thus either disappearing altogether or becoming susceptible to easy discrimination. In the following discussion, we wish to outline a method which will remedy the situation. In the proposed arrangement, chaff is deposited in the atmosphere from a dispenser in such a manner as to have negligible velocity with respect to the medium (air), which prevents it from burning up. It is then irradiated by an airborne transponder, located on the vehicle dispensing chaff, so as to simulate desired radar echoes in range and Doppler, making returns undistinguishable from echoes from the main target."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"A laboratory study has been made of concepts that utilize a laser for a vibration measurement device. The laser beam possesses the needed characteristics for a spatially directed carrier capable of detecting and transmitting vibration information to remote data processing equipment; furthermore, such a laser vibration measurement device can accomplish the measurement without mechanical contact with the structure under test. The measurement technique utilizes the Doppler shift produced on a wave reflected from a surface vibrating normal to the beam path. Several techniques are available for detecting the Doppler shift; optical heterodyne or homodyne detection and microwave subcarrier modulation methods are candidates for practical instruments. Preliminary results from laboratory experiments indicate Optical heterodyne detection to be the most practical method with present state-of-the-art equipment."
"An improved method for frame synchronization of PCM telemetered data is described and performance analyses are presented. This method is based on the utilization of a threshold detector whose level is selfvarying according to the characteristics of the received data. It is simple to implement and simpler from an operational point of view than the frame synchronizers currently in use in that a threshold control is altogether eliminated. Analyses show, furthermore, that a synchronizer using a self-varying threshold always has a higher probability of detecting the synchronization code no matter what the frame length, sync code length, or error level."
"The impact of the Systems Effectiveness concept upon U.S. military terminology required for acquisition of modern weapon systems necessitated a thorough revision of MIL-STD-721A and consolidation with MIL-STD-778 and MIL-STD447. Inclusion of a number of new terms and their definitions, as well as addition of standard definitions for terms on human factors and safety, was found to be necessary. The resulting military standard has been approved by the U.S. Department of Defense for use by all of its departments and agencies. Its contents should be of great interest to management and engineers in private industry who are concerned with the development and production of weapon systems for the Army, Navy, and Air Force. This standard is now in print and will be available for distribution early in 1967; this paper is written by one of the participants in the revision and compilation of this military standard and is published here for the purpose of information on its scope and contents."
"A theoretical model for the radar echo from a random collection of dipole scatterers is presented. The analysis of the model takes into account the effects of scatterer rotation which have been neglected in previous related work. It is shown that rotational motion of the scaterers can have significant effects upon the echo waveform. The fluctuating characteristics of clutter echoes are also investigated. The theory and some experimental results in the literature are shown to be in relatively good agreement."
"Various methods are presented for estimating the flight time for vehicles which fly an optimum trajectory. A realistic example is considered in order to display the inherent accuracy of each of these methods. Numerical integration methods are found to be the most accurate. Simple formulas are derived for the case where a less accurate estimate is acceptable. All of these methods require less computation than would be required in order to solve the overall optimization problem. Thus any one of these methods can be applied to an onboard guidance scheme or control system which requires a real time estimate of the time-to-go."
"The system worth or cost effectiveness concept covers the measure of a system in terms of total dollar value. System worth encompasses the elements of system effectiveness (a quantitative measure of a system's technical ability) as well as cost. One of the elements of system effectiveness is maintainability. Maintainability is an effective mechanism for the accomplishment of planned maintenance during the early design and development phases of a system. Planned maintenance is an element of integrated logistics support. The intent of this paper is to outline the basic elements associated with system worth, system effectiveness, and integrated logistics support, to outline the interrelation-ships of these concepts, and to cover the discipline of maintainability as an element of each concept."
"This paper deals with the enhancement of the quantum efficiency and photovoltaic energy conversion efficiency of a p-n semiconducting cell by optimizing the dimensions of the cell. Based on the Shockley-Read statistics a general expression for the quantum efficiency of monochromatic incident radiant energy photons has been derived in terms of the absorption coefficient of the incident photons, the minority carrier diffusion length, the built-in electrostatic field appearing in diffused cells, and the surface recombination velocity in the exposed layer of the cell. Although the expressions derived may be used for all semiconducting p-n cells, special efforts have been made in the analysis and computations of the germanium p-n cell. The germanium cells show a great potential for photovoltaic energy conversion from radiant sources other than the sun. The results for germanium indicate that the quantum efficiency strongly depends upon the thicknesses of the exposed and base layers. The built-in electrostatic field and the surface recombination velocity in the exposed layer influence the quantum efficiency greatly. Optimization studies for the thicknesses of the exposed and base layers of an n-p type germanium for different values of minority carrier diffusion length, built-in electrostatic field, and surface recombination velocity have been worked out."
"Photographic mapping missions over planetary bodies present a number of interesting hardware, operational, data retrieval, and data analysis techniques. Broadly speaking, such a mapping mission can be conducted with present level state-of-the-art equipment. The space-craft and photographic equipment must perform over long periods of time unattended in the hostile space environment. Operations must support the mission and retrieve the photographic data. Maximum data are limited by photographic capacity, operations capacity, and analysis capacity. Data analysis techniques are under development and computer maps have been developed for RANGER analysis; these techniques can be especially suited to analysis of the video (analog or digital) signal transmitted back to Earth."
"The phasefront distortion imposed on space signals by fine-grained refractivity variations of the atmosphere is an important consideration in the design of large-aperture antennas, antenna arrays, antenna systems for measuring spacecraft position and position-rate, and radioastronomy systems. The distortion caused by ionospheric and tropospheric refractivity variations imposes fundamental limitations on the capabilities of these antennas and antenna systems, particularly on systems which must operate at low elevation angles. The purpose of this paper is to present numerical estimates of distortion imposed on signals passing through the atmosphere. Atmospheric models based on available literature are selected for this purpose."
"The general theory of side-looking synthetic aperture radar systems is developed. A simple circuit-theory model is developed; the geometry of the system determines the nature of the prefilter and the receiver (or processor) is the postfilter. The complex distributed reflectivity density appears as the input, and receiver noise is first considered as the interference which limits performance. Analysis and optimization are carried out for three performance criteria (resolution, signal-to-noise ratio, and least squares estimation of the target field). The optimum synthetic aperture length is derived in terms of the noise level and average transmitted power. Range-Doppler ambiguity limitations and optical processing are discussed briefly. The synthetic aperture concept for rotating target fields is described. It is observed that, for a physical aperture, a side-looking radar, and a rotating target field, the azimuth resolution is λ/α where α is the change in aspect angle over which the target field is viewed, The effects of phase errors on azimuth resolution are derived in terms of the power density spectrum of the derivative of the phase errors and the performance in the absence of phase errors."
"This paper describes an aspect system flown on PIONEERS VI and VII2 which incorporates an extremely accurate adaptive digital computer in order to define rigorously equal time intervals which are submultiples of the spacecraft spin period. The several submultiples which compose the complete spin period exhibit equality to within 2.5 parts in 105. This system has potential applications in other experiments involving the study of the angular dependence of cosmic radiation and other physical phenomena being measured by a single directional detector mounted on spin-stabilized spacecraft. Included here are the scientific goals for this experiment, system restraints, and the generalized system operation. Some details on specific logic and hardware implementation for the Pioneer experiments are included along with in-flight performance evaluation of the system aboard PIONEER VI."
"A practical approach for meeting the immediate and future needs of communication systems that require very wideband transmitters capable of operating in the S-, C-, and X-band frequency ranges is described. Included are: 1) a review of the basic studies conducted to determine the most practical transmitter approach for wideband applications; 2) a discussion of a prototype 10-watt frequency-modulated transmitter developed to demonstrate the feasibility of a wideband system; and 3) a review of the preliminary computer analyses and empirical results obtained on the development of a unit capable of wide deviation with reasonable linearity at baseband frequencies up to 10 Megahertz."
"The Kalman sequential linear estimation theory, although not always utilized because the number of computations required for many systems of practical importance becomes prohibitive, allows straight-forward synthesis of optimal estimators for many complex systems. Some systems designers have chosen to ignore variables and by such a reduction in system dimension have been able to economize with regard to the number of computations. The purpose of this paper is to demonstrate a method which allows economy of computation by partitioning the system state vector; the variables to be eliminated are placed in one subsystem and the remaining variables in one or more additional subsystems. The resultant system is computationally more efficient if some variables are eliminated. This is so because the remaining states have been partitioned into two or more subsystems. The number of computations for a subsystem varies approximately as the cube of the dimension of its state vector. By operating on several subsystems of lesser dimension than that of the unpartitioned system, the number of computations is decreased; performance will deteriorate. The method for determining the partitioning tends to keep this deterioration under control; it is illustrated by application to a marine-type inertial navigation system."
"A system for providing near-instantaneous determination of the azimuthal angle of arrival of a received signal has been designed and fabricated at L band. Direction is determined by phase measurement of the outputs of a multimode antenna, which has no moving parts. Effects of multipath interference are reduced to a minimum through a combination of signal processing techniques. The position of the transmitting source is presented on a PPI display."
"The nitrogen flow characteristics around models is studied with a view to obtaining data which determine the physical state of the plasma. Among all possible techniques, the most adaptable to the special hot-shot conditions-electrostatic probes and VHF microwave reflectometry-is chosen. The experimental apparatus and results in nitrogen are described. The ionization is not homogenous during the shot; this result seems to confirm the assumption that the plasma flow is utilizable only after a delay of more than ten milliseconds following the shock formation period. The hot-shot utilization range is examined for this type of experiment."
"In a paper presented at the last meeting of the International Congress on Instrumentation in Aerospace Simulation Facilities, a method of measuring gas density by radiation scattering was presented. Since that time, the method has been further developed using scattering of 50-keV electrons and has been applied in a wind tunnel using air as a test gas. Test section temperature and density were in the neighborhood of 150°K and 6×10-8 g/cm3. In this application, accuracies better than 1.0 percent appear to be attainable, together with excellent spatial and temporal resolution. The application is described, and comprehensive design data are presented. In addition, the density measurements have been supplemented by measurements of the local rotational temperature, utilizing nitrogen molecular band radiation excited by a second electron beam. Comparisons between the density and temperature measurements and flow properties obtained by standard gas-dynamic calculations are made."
"As part of a hypervelocity instrumentation development program, it was desirable to include a radiometer system for measuring absolute radiation from projectile flow fields. A system employing a photomultiplier tube was designed, and laboratory and range experiments were conducted to investigate its performance characteristics. The laboratory experiments show that the linearity, saturation, and noise characteristics are suitable for this measurement; the system bandwidth is adequate to allow low frequency calibrations to be applied to high frequency measurements; and a derived expression for radiometer sensitivity variation as a function of photomultiplier supply voltage is reasonably correct. The results of the range experiments imply that the system response is sufficient to reproduce accurately input pulses as narrow as one microsecond and that a particular analytical technique for calculating the form of the radiative input to the radiometer from the projectile stagnation region is valid. Principles involved in the design of photomultiplier radiometer circuits of this type are discussed in detail."
"Penetration and cratering studies at hypervelocities make use, primarily, of light gas guns and explosive devices to accelerate projectiles for the impact study. The highest velocities achievable to date with other than micron-sized projectiles are obtained from explosive accelerators (shaped charge) or modified light gas guns incorporating a third stage. Such devices produce one or more randomly shaped particles of undetermined mass; and meaningful impact studies at very high velocities require a method of accurate measurement of the mass of a small fragment after acceleration but before impact. An experimental technique for mass measurement, which is simple in concept and operation, has been developed and demonstrated. A high-speed flash X-ray system is used to photograph the projectile or projectiles in flight. A theoretical treatment utilizing the X-ray mass absorption coefficient of the projectile material, and the linearity of the film density as a function of the logarithm of the exposure, is used to demonstrate that the density change over a finite area of the film is directly proportional to the mass in the path of the X-ray beam. The measurement is independent of ``blurring'' due to the finite exposure time and tumbling of the projectile. Analysis of the exposed film can be conducted in a few minutes and requires only the measurement of average density at five or six positions on the film. Independent measurements of the masses of all projectiles in the field of view are possible. The demonstrated accuracy of the technique is better than ±5 percent."
"A Doppler radar tracking system has been used successfully to measure impact drag coefficients for several water-entry configurations. Hemisphere-cylinder and cone-cylinder models were launched vertically into a tank of water at velocities between 100 and 200 feet per second. These launchings were evaluation tests for a system to be used in a new facility at the Naval Ordnance Laboratory-the Hydroballistics Tank. Planned launchings in that facility will be at velocities up to 3000 feet per second. Knowledge of the drag coefficient profile (CD versus depth of penetration) is important in the design of high-velocity water-entry weapons."
"Double Langmuir probes have been used to measure the ionization intensity in the wake of a hypervelocity projectile; subsidiary experiments to check the validity of the results are described. The spectral characteristic of the fluctuating part of the probe signal has been examined. Because of theoretical and experimental difficulties the results can at most be regarded as giving a qualitative picture of the turbulent structure of the wake. They do show, however, the predominant part played by eddies of roughly the wake diameter, agreeing on the average with the results of Clay et al. [1]."
"A quantitative visualization technique based on an electron beam fluorescence probe has been investigated for low-density flow fields. The design considerations and operating range of the instrumentation system are described. Initial data on the visualization of the flow field of an underexpanded free jet are presented."
"Electron number densities were measured behind the incident shock wave in a pressure-driven shock tube by a microwave resonant cavity technique and by electrostatic probes. The driven gas was air at initial pressures of 0.5 and 1 mm Hg, and the shock Mach number was varied from 7 to 10. Electron neutral collision frequency was also determined by the microwave technique. The experimental measurements were compared with other measurements and with theory."
"A method is described for measuring changing ionization levels by observing the phase shift of a microwave signal which has passed through an open resonator while the resonator is being perturbed by the ionization. The measurement range is 109 to 1011 e/cm3 with a time resolution of 1 μs and a spatial resolution of 2.5 cm. Methods of measuring the phase shift and converting the phase information to useful results are detailed. Sources of error are also considered."
"The results obtained in recent tests conducted to compare the performance of pyroelectric heat-transfer sensors to that of thin-skin thermocouple heat-transfer sensors are presented. These results show that under conditions of clean flow and low heating rates there is excellent agreement between the two types of sensors. In a severe environment such as small particles in the flow and high heating rates, the results agree less closely. Techniques to reduce the difference between the heat-transfer rates indicated by the sensors when operating in a severe environment are presented. Installation and calibration procedures for the pyroelectric sensors are discussed. A relative performance comparison of the pyroelectric, thin-skin thermocouple, and platinum resistance thermometer heat-transfer sensors shows that the pyroelectric sensor is superior to the others in sensitivity, minimum size, and ease of data reduction and that it is comparable in durability, accuracy, and vibration susceptibility. The comparison shows the limitations of the pyroelectric sensors include a need for a dynamic calibration, limited operating temperature range, and short test times."
"The construction, calibration, and performance of thin-film heat-transfer gauges in a measurement of the total radiant intensity of air at superorbital entry conditions are discussed. It is shown that reliance on an electrical bridge calibration alone can cause erroneous results. Magnetic interference from the shock tube flow was identified and eliminated by model design and shielding. Thin-film gauges are shown to be fundamentally unsuited for total radiation measurements because of noise caused by vacuum ultraviolet irradiation. Pyroelectric thermal detectors avoid this difficulty and offer several other advantages over thin-film gauges. The basic equations and practical considerations in the use of pyroelectric gauges are discussed."
"The following discussion involves determination of the \"absolute\" speed (i.e., relative speed to the earth) of a vehicle, by measurement of the induced EMF resulting from movement in the magnetic field of the earth. The measurement is independent of movement in the surrounding fluid (wind, water, stream)."
"There were 19 references omitted from the Supplement to IEEE Transactions on Aerospace and Electronic Systems, vol. AES-2, November, 1966. They are provided here and should be appended to \"Integrated Cockpit Research - A New Look at the Total Aircraft System\" by R.E. Bernberg and B.S. Gurman; they would normally follow page 146 of the Supplement."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"A case study demonstrates that spares requirements based on operational reliability predictions result in the system being undersupported during its burn-in and useful-life phases by average factors of 42.2 and 4.22, respectively. However, systems spares requirements based on logistics estimates result in the system being oversupported during its burn-in phase by an average factor of 4.26 with this factor probably increasing as the system enters the useful-life phase of its life cycle. Adequate system support within predetermined cost estimates will be achieved only when reliability predictions are accurate and when systems spares requirements are computed separately for the equipment burn-in phase and useful-lfe phase."
"The dollar consequence functions associated with consumer's and producer's risks are developed and optimized through use of computer technology. The bivariate normal distribution is used to compute the probabilities resulting from establishment of test limits inside or outside of specffication limits after the manner of Grubbs and Coon [1] and Eagle [2]. Methods of application and precautions during use are described. Practical limits on parameters are discussed, but these are shown to exert no mathematical restrictions on the solutions presented."
"Optimum power division is required in deep-space communications links to maximize transmission range or data rate and to permit efficient performance of both carrier tracking and data reception functions. A simple, graphical technique has been developed for phase-modulated links to determine the particular set of peak phase deviations, or modulation indexes, which results in an optimum power division between the carrier and any combination of sine-wave and square-wave subcarriers. Whereas previous methods for the selection of modulation indexes generally necessitated either lengthy solutions of simultaneous equations or complex computer programs, the methods developed in this paper involve simplified graphical procedures, using the trigonometric and Bessel function expressions which describe the power balance between carrier and subcarriers. The optimization procedure is a valuable tool for preliminary design analysis and should be of interest to communications-system engineers, The techniques developed here are particularly applicable when subcarriers have wide differences in data rates, since under these conditions, it becomes increasingly difficult to select arbitrarily the proper modulation indexes. Channel optimization is developed for both nominal and worst-case link conditions and examples are presented to demonstrate the techniques involved."
"A radio telemetry system is described which permits the acquisition of aerodynamic data from free-flight models in wind tunnels. Small transistorized telemeters are used. The telemeters are frequency modulated by either variable-capacitance pressure transducers or by variable-resistance heat-transfer transducers. The models are generally recovered intact after tunnel runs, allowing repeated runs using a single model and permitting recalibrations to verify that no calibration changes have occurred. As many as four channels of data have been recorded simultaneously from a single model at Mach 20. These were base pressure and heat-transfer rate, and forebody surface pressure and heat-transfer rate on 9-deg half-angle, blunt cone models. Several single-channel, base-pressure measurements have been made on 10-deg half-angle, sharp cone models at Mach numbers of 4, 8, and 10. Sample aerodynamic data transmitted during these tests are presented to illustrate the performance of these telemetry systems."
"Testing the attitude control system of the LUNAR ORBITER was accommplished in an air-bearing facility specifically designed for that purpose. This facility was designed to minimize external disturbances in the platform by seismic motion of the floor, mass deflection of the platform, turbine torques from the air bearing, and thermal currents in the room. The facility was used for the System Design Verification tests. These tests included limit-cycle operation, maneuver sequences, wide-angle Sun acquisition and the star-acquisition (Canopus) sequence. Maneuver angle resolution was to be at least 0.1°±0.1° with the capability of measuring three-axis maneuvers for angles to 80°. The design philosophy as evolved from the experience obtained on company-funded research activities as well as the constraints and approach are presented. Solutions to the facility problem areas, which were predicted or encountered during testing, are detailed. Test results, verifying the solutions to the problems encountered, are discussed. Typical operating characteristics of the simulator during different phases of the LUNAR ORBITER test program are presented"
"In the VKF Counterflow Facility a small test model is launched upstream through the test section flow of a shock tunnel, thus producing relative velocities greater than that of either single component. This facility is presently capable of simulating model velocities greater than 30 000 ft/s (9.2 km/s) and altitudes from 50 000 to 200 000 ft (15.2 to 61 km). Instrumentation systems and components essential to the operation of this facility are described in this paper."
"The determination of the detailed performance of an MHD-augmented high-enthalphy shock tunnel requires the simultaneous measurment of a large number of aerodynamic, electrical, and electromagnetic parameters in a test time interval of the order of several hundred microseconds. In the feasibility study currently being conducted in our laboratory of such a device, an extensive measuring system was set up and evaluated, and is being used to acquire facility performance data. This paper describes this measuring system, discusses the modifications and adaptations applied to make the various components of the system operable and compatible, and gives illustrative examples of the performance of the system."
"A new resonant quasi-optic interferometer has been developed which has a unique capability to deduce spatial information about perturbing plasma media. The fundamental property of the resonator is that it is multiply degenerate. Its geometry consists of four spherical mirrors arranged in a confocal ring configuration such that the transverse modes are simultaneously resonant. Energy is coupled into and out of the resonator by thin dielectric film beam splitters. When perturbed, it is found that the resonant frequency of the system depends on the point at which the field is measured and this dependence is directly related to the geometry of the perturbation. The results of a theoretical analysis of the perturbation of the resonator are presented and preliminary experimental measurements of a 4-mm system are discussed."
"This paper considers the signal phase acquisition problem for arrays of large-aperture steerable antennas. In particular, long-range signal acquisition is considered for those cases in which the signal-to-noise ratio in each antenna-receiver channel is too low to permit signal phase-lock in each individual receiver. Techniques are discussed which promise to extend the array acquisition sensitivity toward that of an equivalent-area single-aperture antenna. Several acquisition methods are analyzed mathematically and an approximate minimum power threshold estimated for each technique. A numerical comparison between the acquisition techniques for various assumed atmospheric conditions is presented which indicates the limitations on array sensitivity imposed by both the transmission medium and the acquisition technique."
"An attempt to employ a magnetically driven shock tube as a tool for aerodynamic studies of high velocity and high enthalpy flows is described. Examples of results are given."
"Inertial navigation systems usually use gyroscopes to sense angular motion and use accelerometers to sense linear acceleration. It is feasible, however, using only linear accelerometers as sensors, to determine both the angular velocity and the linear acceleration of a vehicle. This paper presents and compares five configurations of linear accelerometers which may be used to determine both the angular motion and the linear motion of a vehicle."
"In this technique, small blunt models are launched into a mixture of nitrogen and neon in a ballistic range, and the radiation from the shock layer on the forward face of the model is measured during the last few microseconds of flight by a radiometer directly in the flight path of the model. The ultraviolet radiation is sensed with the phosphor sodium salicylate. Comparison with other techniques and a brief summary of results are given."
"The mechanization of a gimballess inertial system for space navigation is considered. An error analysis reveals that the errors contain both sinusoidal and diverging components. Error damping methods are proposed and it is shown that damping can be achieved by using appropriate damping circuits and auxiliary information obtained from devices such as stellar trackers, velocity-measuring optical Doppler, or radar Doppler. Computer-stored reference-trajectory information can also be used for error damping."
"Another derivation of a continuous-time optimal linear filter is presented. Using this result as a point of departure, a feedback version of this continuous filter is postulated and shown to be optimal in the limit as the ``feedback gain'' becomes infinite. It is then demonstrated that the need for this infinite feedback gain can frequently be eliminated. This feedback realization of the continuous optimal filter has application to the problem of optimally mixing two or more redundant signals, each contaminated by random noise. The feedback configuration has the advantages of simplicity and the bounding of otherwise troublesome very large errors. A simple example is given of the mixing of two (velocity) references each having exponentially correlated error."
"A common problem in waveform design is to adapt the transmitted signal to the target environment in order that the interference from extended fields of scatterers is reduced. This problem is investigated here for the special case of detection of a single target in the ``vicinity'' of an extended clutter space. The paper considers the possibility of confining the matched-filter response in delay and Doppler, or ambiguity function, to a narrow strip with arbitrary orientation in the delay-Doppler plane. It is shown that strict confinement of the response is achievable only with waveforms that are unlimited in both time and frequency domain. With practical waveforms, which are necessarily of finite extent, one merely can trade close-target separability against detectability in the background clutter. Thus, one form of the resolution problem is exchanged against the other. The paper examines these effects quantitatively."
"The performance of a uniformly spaced phased-steered line array with element channel superlimiting is studied for far-field sources consisting of 1) two sinusoidal signals with different frequencies and angular locations, and 2) a sinusoid and a noise signal at different angular locations. Attention is focused on the nonlinear case where internal noise is negligible compared to both input signals. The analysis for the two-sinusoid case gives the precise frequencies, positions, and amplitudes of all apparent sources. In addition to the two active sources, the array output has an array of images arranged symmetrically in sine space about the larger input, at intervals equal to the spacing between the two active sources. For the case of a separated sinusoid and a noise source, the analysis shows that the angular positions and average powers of the array outputs duplicate the double-sinusoid results, but the images have noise-like spectra. The analyses are confirmed by experimental results obtained with a 60-element superlimiting X-band array."
"This paper describes a system of navigation by measurement of the Doppler shift in the radio transmissions from a near-Earth satellite, and simple equipment for making the measurements. It also shows that the current information which is needed by the navigator can be reduced to a number containing six decimal digits. Finally, it shows that the computations needed for the navigator to obtain a fix can be performed witlh the aid of tables that can be prepared at least 18 months in advance. Using these tables and a simple slide rule, but no other computational aids, a fix accurate to about 500 meters can be obtained in about 10 minutes. More accuracy can be obtained at the expense of time, or time can be saved at the expense of accuracy."
"The original paper was presented at the IEEE/G-AES Aerospace Systems Conference, Seattle, Wash., July 11-15, 1966, and was published (less Appendixes) in the Supplement to this Transactions, vol. 2, no. 4, PP. 661-678, July 1966. The four appendices cover: The White Noise Case; A Common Start-Up Problem; Revised Vector Error-Propagation Block Diagram; and Two-Dimensional Model of Inertial System for the \"Complete\" Position (Or Velocity) Inertial and on Ground Alignment Problems. "
"The following is the transcription of the tape recording of a seminar at the 1966 Aerospace and Electronics Systems Convention October 3, 1966. Session Chairman and Moderator: Major General Allen T. Stanwix-Hay, US Special Assistant to the Assistant Secretary of Defense (I&L)."
"The nonstationarity of the low-frequency radar echo envelope observed from an aircraft is shown and a simple model of the echo is suggested. This model, devised specifically for simulation studies using computers, reproduces the characteristics of the observed envelope, demonstrating the correlation between the observed nonstationarity and aircraft motion relative to the receiver."
"The March, 1965, issue of IEEE Transactions on Aerospace and Navigational Electronics published some experimental results of monitoring VOR radial stability which the author had conducted at Ohio University. The data raised some questions concerning VOR error tolerance and stability. During the past 18 months we at Ohio University have continued to collect and analyze VOR data, and we are now in a position to provide the explanation for the phenomena observed. Since alluding to VOR difficulties caused some concern, I am using this mechanism to disseminate our further findings. The original Ohio University momtor system was operated at a diffraction site. This has been augmented to include three line-of-sight (LoS) stations ranging from 150 feet to 40 miles from the VOR transmitter. Receiving equipment was upgraded from that previously used to include Bendix RA21/MN21B VOR receiving systems calibrated by a Collins 479-S3 signal generator. The causes of the four types of disturbances discussed in the original article have been determined and are discussed."
"The author of the above-named work, which appeared on pages 51-56 of the January, 1967, issue of this Transactions, corrects errors to various equations on pages 53, 54, and 55 of the original article."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Experimentally determined values of open-circuit voltage, short-circuit current, and maximum power for p on n and n on p silicon solar cells are presented for temperatures ranging from -196°C to + 50°C under equivalent space sunlight intensities of 58 mW/cm2 and 268 mW/cm2. An anomalous behavior is observed in the n on p cells at low temperatures; namely, the open-circuit voltage becomes nearly independent of temperature below a transition temperature Tt that depends on the sunlight intensity."
"An Apollo ranging system is considered whose phase reference is obtained by a phase-locked loop for bit synchronization. The bit phase reference is noisy, and the error probability for the ranging code is shown to depend on the input signal energy per bit to noise density ratio. The procedure of computing the acquisition time for the ranging code is then presented and the acquisition time for a lunar ranging code is plotted versus the input signal-to-noise density ratio."
"Possible methods of increasing the sensitivity capabilities for determining heat-transfer rates associated with wind tunnel testing have been investigated. Techniques utilizing surface thermocouples of conventional thermocouple materials do not provide the necessary temperature sensitivity to low heat-transfer rates. This need for increased sensitivity has resulted in development and evaluation of surface thermocouples fabricated from semiconductor materials. Calibration of the semiconductor surface thermocouple has disclosed temperature sensitivity on the order of 35 times that of chromel-constantan thermocouples. This increased sensitivity has established confidence in the potential value of this concept and further investigation and evaluation are presently being conducted."
"The results of a study of the characteristics of the second-order Type II phase-locked loop with a Gaussian noise input, and obtained by digital computer simulation, are presented. The digital simulation is described and the random state variables are defined such that their characteristics can be interpreted in terms of existing phase portraits of autonomous phase-locked loops. The statistics associated with the state variables, which are phase error and a measure of frequency error, and those associated with the number of cycles skipped and the mean time to unlock, are given."
"An experimental method applying microwave techniques to obtain continuous measurement of both the shock and contact discontinuities bounding an air plasma generated in a cylindrical hypersonic shock tube is developed. X-band microwave signals excited in the TE11 mode reflect from the moving shock and contact surfaces. The resulting FM interference pattern is demodulated, yielding continuous velocity versus time data. Results depicting subtle detail of velocity behavior, particularly of the shock front, were obtained over a shock Mach number range of 9 to 13."
"The performance of substandard inertial platform gyros can be improved through the sampled supervision of their operation by a higher grade gyroscope mounted directly on the platform. The relative drift rates of the susbstandard platform gyros are estimated on a cyclical basis. This paper describes techniques for estimating the drift rates. It deals with the method of applying these estimated values in the form of platform correction signals."
"It is shown that an operational amplifier with four commutated capacitors in the feedback path produces an output signal whose fundamental is equal in magnitude but 180 degrees out of phase with the input. The analysis is carried out by expressing the output signal in a Fourier series."
"To determine the orbital parameters of a satellite using star occultations, it is necessary to measure the intensity of stars as they occult. The accuracy of the intensity measurements is reduced by interfering sources of light and internal noise, and is expressed in terms of the magnitude of various sources of interference. Subsequently, a specific system is analyzed in detail. Moonlit cloud tops introduce the largest systematic error. Photon noise from the star radiation, airglow, and moonlit cloud tops are the largest sources of random errors."
"The synthesis of radar ambiguity functions is approached using burst-pulse time-frequency waveform coding. Noting that the parameters that define the central response of the ambiguity function for these code classes also define the waveform code, a statistical decision procedure based upon the central response is employed to obtain Bayes-type codes. The selection of the code parameters is subject to restrictions imposed by the noncentral response of the ambiguity function. Three classes of random time-frequency codes are treated: 1) uniform amplitude, uniform pulsewidth matched codes; 2) uniform amplitude, nonuniform pulsewidth matched codes; and 3) uniform amplitude, uniform pulsewidth with receiver amplitude mismatch."
"A 136-MHz to 10-GHz simultaneous-lobing monopulse receiving system, utilizing polarization diversity in both coherent (phase-lock) and noncoherent (nonphase-lock) operational modes, has been developed for the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) Space Tracking and Data Acquisition Network (STADAN). This sum-and-difference monopulse system, called APDAR (Advanced Polarization Diversity Autotrack Receiver), utilizes a maximalratio polarization diversity combining technique that matches the receiving antenna polarization to the incoming variable polarization from a spin-stabilized or tumbling satellite. Autotrack performance becomes independent of the incoming polarization orientation by continuous in-phase addition of the carrier-signal components from orthogonal antenna elements. This technique relies upon the principle that fading does not occur simultaneously on oppositely polarized receiving channels. APDAR results in improved autotrack performance by eliminating adverse effects of severe (over 30-dB) cross-polarization fading. The predetection diversity combining technique employed provides an average 3-dB signal-to-noise (SNR) improvement. This paper describes a series of 136-MHz satellite tracking tests and analyzes a maximal-ratio predetection diversity combiner, a three-loop phase-lock loop system, and a frequency-switched radiometer."
"The linear minimum variance estimator of a random signal, received multiplied by a complex Gaussian phase error and added to random noise, is investigated. The results apply to the propagation of images through the turbulent atmosphere, fading channels, and synthetic-aperture radar. Among others, a result is that the multiplicative error can be replaced by an additive error, usually white. The best signal modulation is found in two important special cases."
"Large-scale vehicle simulations in which human subjects are exposed to realistic environmental profiles are well within the engineering state-of-the-art. The Boeing Multiple-Stress Laboratory is capable of exposing subjects to heat, noise, vibration, and altitude, while measuring their performance and physiology. Data have been obtained on simulations relative to fixed-wing aircraft, helicopters, and three-stage boosters. Exposure periods have ranged from a minimum of 9 minutes to a maximum of 6 hours. Boeing experience, in the past 4 years, has evidenced that a facility of this type can provide an effective bridge between analytical studies and the operational situation. Inherently flexible, such a facility can support a wide variety of development programs."
"Several methods of using an earth-based radio reference signal to determine the three-axis attitude of a synchronous satellite, and two types of spacecraft electronic systems (amplitude measurement and phase measurement), which obtain attitude and pointing information from the radio reference signal for orientating the spacecraft and for directing large-aperture antennas aboard the spacecraft are described. The earth-based radio reference signal also enables the electronic systems to determine angles to other ground stations with respect to fixed (reference) stations on the earth. These attitude- and angle-determining techniques are applicable to communications satellites, navigational satellites, and intersatellite data relay systems."
"The conventional ambiguity function is extended to include the Doppler distortions of the modulation function. The distinctive features of the extension are the use of the complex notation for wideband signals, and inclusion of the Doppler effect on the signal amplitude. The result is an ambiguity function from which Woodward's form can be found by inspection. It is shown that the well-known volume constraint also applies, in unchanged form, to the generalized ambiguity function. For the volume to be constant, it is not required that the distortions of the modulation function be neglected. Rather, the volume constancy is related to the sinusoidal fluctuations of a modulated carrier-type signal and thus is strictly a matter of the percentage bandwidth of the signal."
"To express a number using true logarithmic compression, at least B = log2 [log R log(1 + Q/100 1 - Q/100/)] bits are required. (R = dynamic range, Q = ±error percent.) True logarithmic compression is rarely used in practice, but quasi-logarithmic methods such as normalized floating-point format are used frequently. A partially unnormalized floating-point format provides the best performance in the case of digital data. For this method B = log2 [100 log2 (4R Q/l00 Q 1 - Q/100)]-1. This paper contains analytical and graphical results that facilitate comparison of the various systems."
"This paper presents data describing various performance characteristics of phase-locked loops, which were obtained for the purpose of determining an optimum selection of system order in view of typical operating conditions. With the functions optimized with respect to particular performance characteristics, calculations of the integrated square error and peak error with polynomial inputs are presented in terms of the noise bandwidth; and the generalized error coefficients are also provided in terms of the bandwidth with consideration for the use of both perfect and imperfect integrators. With specific input functions as provided by signals transmitted from earth satellites, an improved performance is demonstrated with the use of the higher order loops, and experimental results verify the calculations and also demonstrate the feasibility of the fourth order loop design."
"The digest of a very lively discussion at the 1966 IEEE Aerospace Systems Conference in Seattle, in a session attended by a near-capacity crowd in spite of being the last session on the last day (Friday) of a four-day conference during the airline strike. The panel consisted of: Whit T. Beatson (Moderator), Naval Air Systems Command, Navy Dept., Louis J. Lawson, Power Equipment Div., Lear Siegler, Inc., Stewart E. Gail, Power Equipment Div., Lear Siegler, Inc., David L. Plette, Specialty Control Dept., General Electric Company, Bill West, Specialty Control Dept., General Electric Company (Substituting for Jack C. Acton), Keith M. Chirgwin, AiResearch Manufacturing Div., Marlyn B. Wall, Boeing Company. The panel was organized by Andrew Rybar, the Boeing Company."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"The description of the planetary and interplanetary environments, presented in this paper, is based on the latest available experimental data, or otherwise typical, quantitative information, which can be used for preliminary estimates of a given mission requirement."
"Multimode airborne weapons systems are now a reality. Because of the increased complexity of these systems, excessive maintenance time has become a problem. This paper describes an approach to reducing maintenance time through the use of semiautomatic built-in-test equipment within the framework of an integrated maintenance program. Emphasis is placed on the methods and hardware involved in the built-in-test mechanization as well as describing the development history of this type of maintenance concept."
"This paper presents a new and simple technique for evaluating the correlation function and the power spectrum of a randomly shaped pulse train defined as y(t) = ∞Σhn(t-tn) n=-∞ where the {hn(·)} are random functions that describe the shape of the pulses and where the random occurrence times {tn} constitute a stationary point process. The obtained results are very simple, and various illustrations are given."
"Certain calculations to minimize output noise variance are introduced. Many applied problems in sampled data systems require that data be smoothed in the presence of noise for the prediction of future positions, velocities, or accelerations. Smoothing coefficients in discrete time-invariant filters are computed to minimize the output noise variance, but under the constraints that the function and derivatives be predicted ahead. The output noise variance is seen to be a function of the input noise, the number of input signals (N+1) that the filter has to smooth, and the prediction time αT. Four examples are given in the derivation of smoothing coefficients for step and ramp inputs subjected to either almost white noise or Gaussian-Markoff noise. The examples illustrate the number of constraint relations that the filter smoothing coefficients must satisfy for function and/or derivative convergence under noise-free conditions. The smoothing coefficients are also a function of the type of noise input into the system or the discrete filter. From the examples, it can be observed that as N becomes larger, the output noise variance becomes smaller, but the computation time is increased."
"The considerations involved in the combination of data compression and error-control coding in space telemetry are analyzed through the use of two performance measures, D and R, which are similar to those used by Shannon for his rate distortion function. The average distortion D is a function of the source probability distribution, the overall system transitional probability matrix, and a cost matrix that signifies the relative importance of different types of data errors. The rate ratio R is the reciprocal of the overall system compression ratio and includes the data expansion effect of additional timing and identification data as well as coding redundancy. The effects of the following system parameters and properties on the overall distortion and rate ratio are analyzed: the error-control usefulness of natural data redundancy; the effect of errors in time information; the use of the strict monotonicity of the time information for error control; the probability distribution of the source; the biterror probability of a binary-symmetric channel; and the word-compression ratio. A rationale for comparing and choosing among three systems- uncompressed-uncoded, compressed-uncoded, and compressed-coded -is given in terms of the performance measures D and R."
"When a whole-number digital computer, rather than an incremental digital computer, is used to solve the strapped-down inertial navigation computational problem, the approximate direct solution of the direction-cosines matrix equation is no longer the optimal algorithm. The Euler parameters are demonstrated to afford improved accuracy and reduced computation time when used in an appropriate algorithm. A new method of classifying the transformation errors is developed and used."
"This paper describes a proposed system for improved exo-ionospheric communications. The dynamic magneto-ionic character of the channel is considered, in particular, the multipath situation arising therefrom. An ideal matched filter is found, matched to the multipath structure and the dynamics of the exo-ionospheric channel. The improvement in the signal-to-noise ratio through the matched filter is calculated. It is seen to depend on the quotient of the input signal to the bandwidths of the ``measuring'' filter and the ``integrating'' filter. Further advantages are shown to accrue from signal processing at the transmitter involving both increases in range, and, in particular, secure coding possibilities."
"The CAVORT analog radar signal processor for matched filtering of coherent pulse trains from targets displaying significant radial acceleration is described. CAVORT employs a scanning technique to search repeatedly through trial pairs of values for Doppler and Doppler rate. When a target appears, it is detected, and the best-fitting pair of values determined. The principle of operation is illustrated, using photographs of waveforms generated by the equipment. The resuilts of satellite observations are included. It is demonstrated that the experimental CAVORT which integrates half-second segments of signal gives satisfactory estimates of acceleration."
"The problem of how to process optical images that have propagated through a turbulent atmosphere is considered. It is assumed that either the object or its (free-space) scattered field at the receiving aperture is known, except for unknown parameters that are to be estimated. Isotropic and homogeneous turbulence as discussed by Tatarski and Chernov is assumed. It is assumed that a very short (in time) reception is made, that the turbulence-induced complex phase errors are either small or have a correlation distance short relative to the receiving aperture extent, and that the object is within an isoplanatic region. The method of maximum likelihood (ML) is used as a criterion; its applicability is discussed. The ML image-processing structure is found and is nonlinear. Asymptotic cases are examined; among other conclusions, it is shown that the ML processing of independent receptions is more complex than an ML processing of the sum of the receptions. A coherent optical system that realizes the ML image processor is described; it includes the capability to generate the scattered field. Simplifications are pointed out."
"The correspondant comments upon the articles of O.A. Meykar, \"Definitions of effectiveness terms: A report on the purpose and contents of MIL-STD721B,\" ibid., vol. AES-3, pp. 165-170, March 1967, and B.S. Blanchard, \"System worth, system effectiveness, integrated logistics support, and maintainability,\" ibid., vol. AES-3, pp. 186-194, March 1967."
"Theauthor of the original article being commented on notes that \"effectiveness\" was not specifically defined in MIL-STD-721B because it is a term found in a dictionary. Only when associated with the word \"system\" was effectiveness defined specifically, in order to give the term a definite and a single meaning. The commentor's reference to Concept Formulation and Contract Definition procedures, now the basic and the most important part of weapon system procurement by all departments and agencies in DOD, is particularly significant. Importance of this subject to the private industry cannot be overemphasized."
"The effect of hard limiting on the phase of a test signal was investigated when large out-of-band interfering signals are present at the input to the limiter. First a single and then two discrete interfering signals were considered. The interfering signals and the test signal are restricted to narrow but separated bands. The test signal is recovered after limiting by narrowband filtering. The analysis of the single interfering signal is essentially the same as that performed by Cahn.1 In this correspondence experimental evidence is presented to verify the analysis and, in addition, the case of two interfering signals is considered."
"A panel discussion held at the 1966 Aerospace and Electronics Systems Convention, October 4, 1966. Session Moderator: Trevor Clark, Manager, Program Operations, Washington Defense and Space Center, Baltimore, Md. Figures mentioned in the text are unavailable for publication."
"The following is a condensation of a panel discussion which took place at the 1966 Aerospace Systems Conference, Thursday, July 14, 1966, in Seattle, Wash. The panel moderator was Frank Gardiner, at present the Manager of Space Programs at RCA, serving as a representative of the electronics industry in the discussion. Panelists were George H. Stoner, Vice President and General Manager of the space division of Boeing, serving as representative of prime contractors and vehicle integrators; Col. Marion B. Gibson, the Director of the Defense Communication Satellite System Program at the Space Systems Command of the U.S. Air Force in Los Angeles, representing the point of view of the government in the discussion. The overall objective of the panel discussion was to provide some indications or suggestions as to how all levels of organization should operate in order to provide the best electronic products for space vehicles at the least possible expense. As the discussion was held in open sesstion, with questions received from the audience, any mention of classified information was avoided. The discussion was divided into five phases, roughly corresponding to the stages in the life of an electronic system. These phases were 1) the phase in which research of an applied nature, though not as yet directed toward a specific mission, is being done on specific electronic products; 2) the phase in which there is a specific mission in mind."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the copyright information for the journal content. May include reprint permission information."
"THE PROBLEM of how to handle one's own research publications often poses a dilemma for the editor of a journal. The editor of this Transactions has struggled with this problem for years and has still not resolved it. The first paper, jointly authored with two of his colleagues, represents at least a temporary resolution. It was, of course, reviewed in the usual manner and is first in this issue for alphabetical reasons (happily for the editor's opinion of its importance and relevance to the management of RD&E). This paper is one of the first reports of a long term study of the origination, flow, and disposition of ideas for new projects in research and development laboratories, which started at Northwestern in 1962. It emphasizes some of the critical psychological, sociological, and political factors that are critical in a process that is often thought of as primarily rational and economic."
"A flow model is presented which identifies some of the organizational factors influencing idea generation behavior in industrial R&D laboratories. The model is constructed from literature-based propositions which make explicit the role played by several organizational factors identified in the model. Data were collected on about 300 ideas created in a divisional laboratory of a major U.S. corporation. In general, these data support the a priori propositions. Further, data analysis suggests that two pieces of information are required before an idea is generated: 1) knowledge of a needy problem, or opportunity relevant to the company; and, 2) knowledge of a means or technique for satisfying the need, solving the problem, or capitalizing on the opportunity. These results are discussed with respect to the stages of creative thought proposed by other investigators. Finally, the organizational events, which were associated as “needs” events or “means” events for the ideas studied, are identified and analyzed with respect to both quantity and quality of ideas."
"The relationship of Reliability Engineering to other disciplines, its purpose, and its function in the scheme of organization is a subject of continual concern. This paper views Reliability Engineering as a managerial tool to assist management and its engineering staff in accomplishing the purposes of an enterprise. The risk of unreliability is discussed with emphasis on the risk which the supplier takes each time a contract is signed. The factors which determine reliability of a product are succinctly stated. These two considerations, managerial risk and the factors which determine reliability, establish a purpose and a function for the Reliability Engineer which are discussed from the viewpoint of the contribution of Reliability Engineering as a managerial tool."
"After reviewing the beta distribution and its properties, a simple technique is described for obtaining exact solutions to the cubic equation which results from the PERT constraint on standard deviation. These solutions are then used, together with the expression for the mode of the beta distribution, to determine graphically the specific values of the parameters of a beta distribution which may be associated with any particular set of PERT estimates. Expressions are derived for approximate values of these parameters in terms of the PERT estimates explicitly, and a comparison is made of the exact and approximate values. The PERT approximation concerning expected time is examined and confirmed to be an excellent simple approximation for the exact value of the associated beta distribution. It is concluded that the beta distributions associated with PERT are not necessarily as restricted, and the differences between the PERT values of expected time and standard deviation and the exact values for the associated beta distribution are not as great, as has previously been indicated in the literature."
"The four major types of organization structures found in research and development laboratories were investigated. This study, conducted at a large AEC laboratory, recommends how these structures can be most effectively utilized. The structures are broad-span-of-control, projects, project-functional, and functional. They are discussed in terms of the mission, the span-of-control, and the personnel best suited to each structure, as well as the different problems of supervision found in each, such as coordination and encouraging creativity. Each structure has advantages and disadvantages which must be weighed in considering when to use it."
"A numerical example from R&D project selection is used to illustrate an analytical procedure for including subjective knowledge about certain types of unforeseen occurrences in the decision process. The R&D manager describes each project with a decision tree whose structure is not known exactly because of the possible occurrence of research results that could not have been anticipated."
"This paper reports the results of a study undertaken by the Computer Personnel Research Group to gain some insight into the relationship between, on the one hand, rated job performance, and, on the other, cognitive abilities, vocational interests, and biographical information of computer programmers. A test battery composed of the IBM Programmer Aptitude Test, the Test of Sequential Instructions (a research instrument specially constructed for this study), the Strong Vocational Interest Blank, and a Personal Background Data Form was administered to 534 programmers (301 scientific and 233 business) representing 24 participating companies."
"Norman R. Baker was born in Beverly, Mass., on June 28, 1937. He received the B.S.I.E. degree from Northeastern University, Boston. Mass., in 1961. and the M.S.I.E. degree from Northwestern University, Evanston. Ill., in 1963."
"This index covers all technical items that appeared in this periodical during the year."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"The group of papers presented here was reviewed and edited for publication by a board of which Marvin Cetron was the Editor. Mr. Cetron was assisted by Associate Editors Sam Rothman, Edward Roberts, and J. R. Marvin. — The Editor"
"This paper presents a summary of methods of evaluating and selecting R&D projects. Approximately thirty methods, which have appeared in scattered places in the literature, are described briefly, and a bibliography is provided for further information. The various methods are compared and contrasted with each other relative to a standard set of features which they may possess, to a standard set of characteristics relating to ease of use, and to scientific or technological area of applicability."
"This paper describes a model that stores, tracks and properly relates judgments concerning systems; shows the impact of these judgments; permits real-time iteration of planning problems to facilitate the assessment and selection of system candidates for development. Criteria are threat, types of war, policy objectives, functions, systems contributions, force structure, technical feasibility, schedule and cost, and budget."
"This article discusses the allocation of common physical resources among multiple development tasks. The contribution of this research will be the evolution of a quantitative model for performing the resource allocation. The model differs from others in that it allocates commonly used resources to multiple tasks over time; available resources are constraints and the allocation process is based upon network relationships, time considerations, and management objectives. Previous models have taken into account one or more of these factors, but none has considered them all."
"This report is concerned with the development of mathematical models, computer programs, and data requirements to conduct development systems planning in large Research and Development organizations. The specific planning decision problems are 1) the selection of technical alternatives, 2) the funding of system components, and 3) the funding of systems. Cost-effectiveness relationships are developed. A manual is presented for use in the training of planners in the utilization of computer results. Tests have been conducted utilizing simulated cost, risk, and value data."
"A mathematical model is developed for use in measuring and evaluating the performance of a research laboratory in meeting the needs to develop items to satisfy stated Army operational requirements. Three submodels are developed, where the overall laboratory model is obtained by means of matrix multiplication. Illustrative examples have been developed using Army research laboratory data. The model may be modified to include stochastic variables and data on the relative importance of projects and sciences."
"The Marine Engineering Laboratory (MEL), the Annapolis Division, Naval Ship R&D Center, has developed a procedure for the development of long-range R&D planning particularly aimed at the logical objective determination of the requirements imposed on new ship procurement by the Navy mission. Starting from a broad concept suggested by Naval Ship Systems Command (NAVSHIPSYSCOM), MEL has developed the structure of a procedure which, when completed and validated, will provide a logical, objective determination of future requirements and a standardized format for Ship System Formulation. The structure consists of mission objectives, vehicle types, specific techniques and components, as well as forecasts of the functional capabilities techniques and components."
"Recently, DOD has had more emphasis placed on it by Congress to develop a logical method of allocating its resources to the sciences and technologies, quest (Quantitative Utility Estimates for Science and Technology) describes one method of determining the relevance of research and exploratory development to missions and thereby aid in efficient allocation of dollars and manpower thereto."
"Systems for classifying or categorizing areas of science and technology are required, not only for use in information retrieval operations, but also for methods used for R&D project selection and evaluation. This paper describes the background and development of one such system which was devised for information retrieval purposes. Either the system itself, or the methods by which it was devised, may be of use to others facing problems similar to those of the organization for which it was devised."
"A concept for relating research programs sponsored by the military services to future military mission requirements is described. Developed by the Office of Research Analysis, this concept is currently being used to assist its parent command, The Office of Aerospace Research, in insuring that the Air Force's basic research program is relevant to future aerospace missions and that the Air Force systems planning agencies are aware of the operational implications of basic research results."
"Presents a biographical entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"AFTER a concentrated dose of “operations research” and “economic” type of papers in the March issue (a special issue containing selected papers on R&D Management from the 1966 Military Operations Research Symposium), the papers in this issue again discuss a variety of topics related to the management of R, D, & E. This variety does, however, contain two papers — those by Ledley et al. and by Hulbert and Scalera — related to the theme of the March issue. This theme contains the pervasive questions in activities such as Research, Development, and Engineering: how much should we spend and how shall we allocate the available funds among various opportunities? Many papers in this Transactions over the past seven years have been concerned with such questions. Since useful and general answers are not yet in sight, this theme will continue to be explored in future articles."
"Scientists and engineers, like other people, vary in their ability to be creative. Although some jobs in R & D are of a purely routine nature, it is commonly believed that creative ability is a useful attribute for the man in the laboratory. Yet when we measured the creative ability of some scientists and engineers, we found no simple relationship between it and their performance. Upon further exploration, we learned that whether or not creative ability “paid off” depended upon the man's laboratory environment. This paper describes the environments which proved to be good climates for creativity."
"A highly simplified model for growth of corporate sales resulting from new product research shows that investment of a fixed annual fraction of profits in new product research and development leads to a feedback effect on growth. When the parameter β(k + Sγ) exceeds unity, annual sales grow exponentially. For values less than unity, sales reach a steady annual value. The factors in this critical parameter are: β = (total sales of new products)/(dollar of total sales) γ = (sales per old product item)/(sales per new product item) k = years life as a new product S = additional years life as an old product. The qualitative principles involved are of general validity. Although too crude for quantitative prediction of individual product return, the model may have rough quantitative value for whole businesses or large product classes."
"This paper notes the increase in management possibilities for technically trained personnel, describes problem areas encountered by engineers in executive positions, and suggests ways to overcome such problems. By virtue of his training in orderly thinking and his involvement in technology — often a dominant function in modern industry — the engineer is particularly well suited for an executive position. But his technological background often contains the seeds of failure in management situations, and the author lists six points in modes of thought and areas of knowledge, which could prove to be pitfalls for the engineer turned manager. Each of these points, including management's own technology, touches upon an aspect of technical training which is the reverse, or very different from, requirements in management. As a check on the would-be manager's “general management IQ” the author includes seven short questions in areas of basic importance to top level management. An engineer's inability or unwillingness to master management's skills and fields of knowledge leads to his almost certain failure as a manager, and the author describes typical patterns of failure related to the six pitfall areas. But success is possible to the man who realizes the essential differences between the technical and management attitudes and skills, and who takes advantage of the countless avenues of management education which are available to him."
"This paper constitutes an attempt to explore and consider some pertinent management problems associated with planning a highly diversified research program. Research-planning methodology is defined as a broad plan for utilizing an ordered set of principles and/or procedures which describe, quantify, and evaluate areas and categories of research in accordance with their respective contributions to a research mission. Application of these pertinent principles, procedures, and techniques lead to a determination for the allocation of resources in a manner such that the expenditure of effort and resources may be said to constitute a well-ordered and balanced program. Examples of questions posed to this system are indicated and algorithms for methods of solution are illustrated."
"A study of a three-year-old incentive-maintenance scheme administered by the engineering department of a medium-sized British manufacturer of electrical insulation products is presented. A series of flow diagrams represents the operating procedures that have been developed. This scheme is represented as a control system in order to detect the feed-forward and feedback paths that determine its effectiveness. It has proved to be successful and has checked an earlier tendency for maintenance costs to rise with production volume. Rigorously its success is not so much due to its incentive nature as to the amount of pre-planning that now accompanies these engineering operations."
"The required senior course in engineering economy now gives a broad perspective to business operations, discusses the engineering functions, and summarizes the techniques for project evaluation. The professional demand for reports and proposals emphasizes the need for clear, concise writing. Proper economic analysis demands thorough planning and scheduling such as offered by the diagrammatic scheduling techniques. Invited presentations by industrial managers enliven the material. These students work with management more willingly and have a better perspective of developing their careers."
"Presents a biographical entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"SCHNITTGER'S paper represents a long-term trend in many industrial companies toward long-range techno-economic planning. It is far advanced in many large U. S. companies, and is beginning to appear in individual companies in Europe and elsewhere. This kind of activity, long advocated by academic people, is being performed by a variety of groups inside the industrial corporation. Some of these groups are called “long-range planning,” “economic analysis,” “management science,” “operations research,” etc. The majority do not currently appear to be within the Research and Development department or activity, although at one time this was a common location for them.1"
"The first section presents a conceptual analysis which is a method of reducing the fundamental technology of any company. Venn diagrams and matrix formulation are used to apply the technology of the company in diversified areas. The second section employs the simplest entropy concept of information theory to describe the management of a development program. Selection of the portfolio is included. The third section is concerned with the pursuit of the program. It employs a unique queuing model that yields the influence of the “load” and the R & D organization on the number of projects satisfactorily completed during a budget period."
"The study reported focuses first on the relationship between a project manager's background characteristics and certain characteristics of the projects he is asked to manage. The impact of this decision process is then examined by relating project manager experience and project characteristics to measures of project performance. The findings indicate that organizations select their oldest and most experienced project managers to direct large, high-priority projects. Performance is then superior without relation to the project manager's total experience, but in relation to the high priority given larger projects. With the exception of a measure of “growth in responsibility,” none of the measures of the project manager's experience were found to bear any direct relationship to project performance."
"The relationship between regional R&D growth and subsequent regional economic growth is analyzed empirically. The rates of growth from 1920 to 1964 are calculated for various economic variables and R&D in the 48 contiguous states. The correlation coefficients of the growth equations measure consistency in growth. These coefficients are then analyzed via a correlation procedure. The results suggest that regions enjoying the most consistent rates of growth in R&D activity will subsequently enjoy, if not the most rapid economic growth, the smoothest and most consistent pattern of future economic growth."
"Since the benefits of a military investment are not marketable, the investment itself is also not marketable. It follows, in particular, that there is no way in which the cost profile of such an investment can even conceptually be varied, except by government borrowing or by adoption of an alternative investment. Hence, in the absence of borrowing, a cost stream represents a unique profile of resource withdrawal from the private sector of the economy. Therefore, the present value of such a cost stream cannot be a proxy for the stream itself in comparisons with other cost streams. Government can resort to public borrowing to change the profile of taxes necessary to pay for the investment, and thus, to some extent, change the profile of real resource withdrawal from the private sector, If the borrowing and taxing operations could result in predictable real resource withdrawals, then a present value criterion, using the borrowing rate as the discount rate, could be formulated: Of two cost streams, the one with the lesser present value would permit resource withdrawals that dominate those that the other would permit. Unfortunately, the state of the art has not advanced to the stage where such predictions could be made with any degree of confidence."
"An important feature of dealing with overall management problems is the fact that the economic behavior of a company is averaged over a fixed quantum of time, i.e., one year. Because economic variables are yearly averages, the economic world is endowed with a periodic substrate. The economic world is a sort of crystal, and economic variables behave much in the manner of physical entities in crystals."
"EMI control refers to the ever-increasing problem of controlling the adverse effects of electromagnetic interference (EMI) on electronic equipment. Atmospheric noise, due to the phenomena of solar radiation and the ionosphere, is one form of ambient interference, but man-made noise adds to the ambient solar interference and increases the ambient intensity by many orders of magnitude. Descriptions are given of several undesirable effects of man-made interference. The interference problem is discussed, as well as many reasons for concern. An approach to EMI control is suggested, including the outline of a proven EMI control program."
"Presents a biographical entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"The engineer's media of communication are primarily technical reports, published papers, and oral presentations. Logically, a written report should always come first, since this can be the most comprehensive of the group. From this base, both the professional paper and the oral presentation can more easily be derived. An understanding of the techniques and procedures of the professional writer, and of the basic differences between reports, papers, and talks, can be of great help to the engineering author. One does not become an accomplished writer or speaker after reading a single paper about these subjects. However, it could help. This paper concentrates on practical advice and counseling for potential authors who want to improve their capabilities."
"The way spacecraft ground check-out procedures are written and used in the Apollo program is described. Processing these check-out procedures using computer-assisted editing and publishing is discussed. In particular, the role of a general-purpose computer in information retrieval and in correction, setup, and typing is presented. The computer aids the engineering writer and document editor both in producing rough-draft copy and in inserting corrections into nearly finished copy following review. The use of mnemonic commands and the makeup of a mnemonic dictionary for large-scale use are discussed. The overall capabilities of such a program are outlined; however, computer programming is not discussed in detail."
"The three- or four-column trouble chart seems likely to be around for a while, despite promising new developments. A great deal can be done to improve this venerable device while we await the newer techniques. Admitting that most troubleshooting data are hypothetical — “written backward” circuit description — this paper proposes means of progressing from this state of affairs to satisfactory trouble analyses. Among such means are: using the “backward” description to develop a family of major trouble symptoms; breaking down these troubles into smaller indications that point to very particular faults, rather than general areas (a broken wire or blown fuse instead of “open circuit”) using early field-gathered reports to flesh out the hypothetical data; and arranging trouble data to fit the real — not the supposed — needs and technical level of the user by ascertaining his actual training and looking at the problem with the eye of the mechanic-technician rather than that of the engineer-analyst."
"EWS SPONSORED a unique and successful one-day invitational conference at the Sheraton Hotel in Philadelphia, Pa., on February 6, 1967. The Philadelphia Chapter of IEEE-EWS handled the local arrangements."
"As with many recent books, the title of this one is misleading because it fails to convey the true nature of its contents. This may be why the publisher found it necessary to add the subtitle. The Psychological Approach to Effective Writing, on the jacket. But this also leads one astray, for what the book really deals with, and amusingly and entertainingly at that, are the psychological reasons for the vast quantities of bumbling and ineffective writing turned out by our business, government, research, technical, and commercial organizations today. In dealing with this, Classen has just the right touch to deflate the egocentric business writer and to show by examples how to restore his psyche to the prosaic mundaneness of precise communication. The author's treatment of his subject is ably complemented by the many pertinent cartoons of Herb Green. These alone would, in fact, if enlarged and framed and hung on the walls of any office, constitute a most effective picture story of what not to do in nonfictional forms of writing (but there might be a copyright problem here!)."
"The Affiliate Plan, established by the IEEE Board of Directors, enables individuals who are not members of IEEE, but who have an interest in writing and speech, to join the Engineering Writing and Speech Group. Admission as an affiliate requires only membership in a professional society as described below. Affiliate members enjoy all the privileges of the Group except that of holding elective offices or voting for those positions."
"Several techniques for translating the results of diagnostic tests into specific fault identities are described. This translation can be difficult in large and complex machines. The amount of test data required to isolate faults, and the obscure symptoms some faults generate, preclude efficient manual test-by-test interpretations. The additional observed fact that a significant number of faults yield inconsistent test results from diagnosis to diagnosis demands a flexible interpretation of data. Techniques are described for producing fault dictionaries which can be used by the maintenance craftsman to identify machine faults in a relatively short time. These techniques utilize multidimensional geometric representations of diagnostic results, methods for identifying and ignoring inconsistent tests, pseudo-random mappings, and other procedures for condensing and organizing the information contained in diagnostic test data. The results of applying these techniques to data obtained from the Bell System's No. 1 Electronic Switching System are also discussed."
"Recent studies have been concerned with conditions for the stability of synchronized systems and expressions for equilibrium frequency. This paper describes the transient response of special configurations of synchronized systems of arbitrary size, as well as frequency response and jitter response for a few cases. Tentative extrapolations to more general configurations are suggested."
"Gravity forces cause distortions in tubular gas lenses. A theory is derived here which yields excellent quantitative agreement with measured distortions for various tube lengths, diameters, and gases. It is shown that in a gas lens of optimum design the displacement of the optical center has a maximum at the end of the lens. The amount of displacement increases with the fourth power of the tube diameter and with the square of the gas pressure."
"Acoustic light modulators are discussed in which the optical carrier is reinserted in the diffracted, frequency-shifted light beam. Reinsertion is accomplished in a novel fashion using a Kösters prism. In contrast to the usual acoustic modulator, the diffracted light is power modulated at the acoustic frequency. Modulation bandwidth and depth are each calculated as a function of the optical and acoustic beam parameters, assuming a Gaussian optical beam and rectangular acoustic beam. It is shown that the modulation bandwidth increases proportional to the optical beam diffraction angle and equals the inverse of the transit time of the sound across the waist of the optical beam. The optimum modulation depth, for a given acoustic power, corresponds to approximate equality of the optical and acoustic diffraction angles. Confirming experiments in the frequency range 250/350 MHz are described."
"Low-density polyethylene sheathing materials have water vapor permeabilities on the order of 10−8 at 22°C. High-density polyethylenes have permeabilities about one-third to one-sixth that of the low-density polyethylene. Copolymers of polyethylene have higher permeabilities than the homopolymer. As an example, 15 percent ethyl acrylate comonomer increased the permeability by a factor of 10 over that of straight low-density polyethylene. The nonolefinic polymers tested have higher permeabilities. For example, polyurethane plug compound has a permeability more than 80 times higher than low-density polyethylene. Finally, it was found that the addition of carbon black decreases the water vapor permeability roughly in proportion to the amount of carbon black, and that the permeability of these materials increases with increasing porosity. To make these measurements, two types of laboratory apparatus have been constructed. The first of these makes the permeability measurement on a tubular sample of the material, and the other on films. Both methods used an electrolytic moisture monitor, which is commercially available, to make necessary determinations of water transfer rate through the plastic."
"A theoretical analysis of signal fading using an energy density antenna is developed and compared with that from an isotropic antenna. The energy density antenna provides a signal proportional to the energy density of the mobile radio field. The number of crossings that the signal makes of a given signal level and the average duration of fades below a given signal level have been derived theoretically for these two cases using a simple statistical model. Comparing the number of level crossings of the electric field with that of the energy density, it is shown that the energy density fades less frequently than the electric field by at least a factor of two. The average duration of fades of the electric field is greater than that of the energy density only for lower signal levels. These results are in reasonable agreement with experimental measurements."
"Two types of self-synchronizing digital data scramblers and descramblers are introduced and examined. The descramblers recover synchronization quickly after the insertion or deletion of channel bits, and they are relatively insensitive to channel errors. The scramblers act to increase the period of periodic data sequences, and the periodic channel sequences produced have approximately half as many transitions in one period as there are bits in a period. These circuits find application in common carrier systems where short-period data sequences produce high-level tones in the transmission band and, as a consequence, interchannel interference. And they have application when receiver clocks derive synchronization from transitions in the channel signal. A number of variations and modifications of the scramblers which affect their cost and size are considered. The scramblers and descramblers are similar in construction and consist of linear sequential filters with either feed-forward or feedback paths, counters, storage elements and peripheral logic. The counters, storage elements and peripheral logic monitor the channel sequence but react infrequently so that the scramblers and descramblers behave principally as linear sequential filters."
"A variety of electronic cameras have been developed for television systems.1 Among these the vidicon2 and the Plumbicon3 have the inherent advantages of high sensitivity, small size, and simple mechanical construction. The operating principles of the vidicon and the Plumbicon are quite similar since they both utilize a thin photoconductive layer to convert the optical image to a stored charge pattern which is periodically scanned and erased by an electron beam. Erasing the charge pattern creates the video signal. However, there is a distinct difference in overall device performance since the photoconducting target in the Plumbicon (PbO) is deposited in a manner to form a single, large area, graded p-n junction, each layer having high resistivity. In the vidicon, the evaporated layers of Sb2S3 forming the target behave like a semi-insulating photoconductor."
"This paper deals with the analysis of data from the omnidirectional high-energy proton detector on the Telstar® 1 satellite. The main accomplishment is the development of relatively simple (empirical) mathematical models which give a statistically accurate representation of the measured spatial distribution of intensity of protons with energies between 50 and 130 MeV. These models depend upon the fitting of 8 (or 9 or 10) coefficients based on samples containing approximately 1000 of the nearly 80,000 experimental observations. The nature of the model for the average omnidirectional counting rate permits its closed form transformation to the equivalent equatorial pitch angle distribution. Sufficiently accurate fits were achieved so that the residuals (equal to observed minus fitted) could be productively examined for possible dependence on variables other than the two magnetic coordinates used in the fitting. One consequence of this was the detection of instrumental susceptibility to temperature and bias voltage changes, which led to an objective partitioning of the data. The present paper has several evolutionary aspects: In particular, a series of one-dimensional fits was employed as a base for developing a two-dimensional model; a preliminary analysis of all the data was used to guide the rejection of outliers; a first two-dimensional fit to all the data led to a data-independent basis for partitioning the data; the mode of selection of a sample of data, to which the two-dimensional model was fitted, changed as deeper insight into the importance of this issue developed; and, after a very satisfactory fit to the data was attained, the model was improved by specialization and reparameterization so as to overcome some statistical defects and to achieve greater physical meaning. The data cover the time period between July 1962 and February 1963, and the spatial region bounded by 1,09 Re ≦ R ≦ 1.95 Re, and 0 ≦ λA < 58 °. Flux maps having a relative accuracy of about two percent are derived from the fit and presented. The temporal behavior of the intensity is examined and some changes are noted. The maximum value of the omnidirectional flux of protons with energies between 60 and 130 MeV is found to be [5.7−2.8+1.4] × 103 protons/cm2 sec at L = 1.46 on the magnetic equator, in good agreement with other experiments. Relative flux values and energy spectra are consistent with the generally accepted picture of the proton distribution."
"Companding has proven to be a valuable technique for improving the signal-to-noise ratio of voice transmission at baseband frequencies. A compandor consists of a compressor element which reduces the dynamic range of a transmitted signal in a predetermined manner and an expandor element which restores the signal range at the receiver. Practical Bell System applications to date have used electron tubes, germanium point-contact semiconductor diodes and unpassivated silicon mesa diodes. Each of these variolosser elements had serious shortcomings. Two new diode pairs have been designed which eliminate the problems of impedance range control and linearity, diode noise and electrical stability. The new design utilizes heavy gold doping of a planar oxide-passivated wafer design to produce a bulk controlled device capable of unusually high manufacturing yields."
"Holographic and other imaging systems utilizing coherent light introduce a speckled or noise-like pattern in the image of a diffuse object which severely degrades image quality. It is desirable to understand this effect quantitatively. Intelligent design in many cases requires knowledge of the mean-square value, spatial power spectral density, and autocorrelation junction of the noise-like fluctuations. These quantities have been determined for the image of a uniform diffuse object. Major results are: (i) The mean-square value of the fluctuation in the image intensity is equal to the square of the mean intensity. (ii) One can decrease the relative magnitude of the noise-like fluctuations at the cost of a corresponding increase in the aperture required of the optical system (or hologram) over that required to resolve the desired image in a spatial frequency sense. In a holographic facsimile or TV system, this calls for a corresponding increase in electrical bandwidth. (iii) The improvement in (ii) is not possible for direct viewing with the human eye, since the resolution of a healthy eye is known to be limited by diffraction at the iris."
"The fields excited within a planar dielectric waveguide by an externally incident electromagnetic field are studied in this paper. The dielectric waveguide fills the half space z > 0, while the half space z < 0 is air. The waveguide is formed by a nonuniform, anisotropic, nonabsorbing, dielectric medium. Different choices of the dielectric tensor for this medium yield different waveguides. Certain models which are particularly relevant to electro-optic diode waveguides and laser diode amplifiers are studied in some detail. An arbitary incident field will, in general, excite not only a finite number of propagating modes, but also a background of continuum modes. Integral representations of the total transmitted field within the waveguide as well as of the reflected field are obtained. The representation of the total transmitted field can be decomposed into a finite sum of discrete propagating modes, a continuum propagating field, and an evanescent field. Explicit evaluation of the fields depends on the solution of a pair of integral equations. In practice, the dielectric tensor of the waveguide differs but little from the dielectric constant of the surrounding material. An approximate solution is found for this case, and numerical results will appear in a following paper."
"Demagnetizing fields play an important role in the operation of many thin magnetic film devices. A requirement of high packing density leads to strong localization of induced changes in magnetization; and, therefore, to correspondingly large demagnetizing fields and drive currents. A treatment of the demagnetizing field problem for thin film materials is given here for film properties and fields which are nonuniform along the hard anisotropy axis. Specifically considered are saturating fields, variations in film thickness and anisotropy constant, interaction between films, and the effect of easy direction bias fields."
"This paper is a treatment on linear and planar phased arrays of current sources, whose amplitudes are uniform and scan-invariant. By recognition that the radiation impedance of an array element is an analytic function of a complex scan variable, a powerful mathematical tool becomes available for the investigation of some important properties of the impedance as a function of scan. For example, it is proven that in a finite array the impedance seen by such a scan-invariant current source cannot be perfectly matched over a continuous scanning range using lossless, linear, passive and time-invariant elements. This result is extended to the infinite-array case by treating the latter as a periodic structure, and assuming that the Green's function of the unit cell is analytic with respect to the scan variable. The theory includes both linear and planar arrays. Among other results it is shown that the element impedance in an infinite array must be of a specific mathematical form. It is hoped that by recognizing the limitations imposed thereby, useful guidelines will be established for achieving optimal match of an array into space."
"An energy-density antenna which can measure both the E field and H field of a plane wave simultaneously has been developed, consisting of two small orthogonal semiloops over a ground plane. Hybrids were used to take the sum and difference of the loop outputs, giving voltages uniquely proportional to the E and H fields. The loop dimensions and optimum configurations were experimentally determined by measurements at a frequency of 836 MHz in a man-made free-space environment. Energy-density computation from the measured E and H fields of a standing wave in free space showed that the maximum-to-minimum range of the energy density is much less than that of either the E or H fields alone."
"Error probability is considered for binary signaling through a multipath channel in which (i) the receiver observes a waveform comprising white Gaussian noise and the sum of (perhaps several) time-delayed, frequency-shifted, Rayleigh-faded versions of the transmitted waveform, (ii) the receiver decides with minimum error probability which of the two possible transmissions was sent. Results given herein for the exact minimum error probability necessarily depend upon a number of parameters and are cumbersome to use. By introducing bounds on the error probability, depending upon bounds on spectra of certain matrices, the number of parameters is reduced and the less cumbersome results become applicable to any one of a set of channels rather than to just one channel. The error-probability bounds are presented in terms of values of the distribution function, derived herein, of the difference of two chi-square random variables. The bounds are sharp when the spectra are narrow. For the case of widely orthogonal signals, any version of one possible transmission being orthogonal to any version of the other transmission, the bounds are given as a set of universal curves plotted versus signal-to-noise ratio for various values of the number of paths and of the spectral width of certain matrices. Spectral bounds can easily be computed when the versions for each transmission are nearly orthogonal. Returning to the general case, another bound is derived, by a technique due to Chernoff, which does not explicitly require spectral bounds which may neither be readily available nor be accurate approximations of eigenvalues. This bound is not as sharp as the previous bound for the case of small spectral width, but has promise for the large-width case."
"In certain applications, because of noise, compatibility, or other considerations, it is desirable that a data transmission system have the flexibility to operate at multiple speeds. In this paper, a precoding scheme for multiple-speed digital or analog data transmission is presented. The scheme has a flexibility which allows the data rate and overall channel characteristics to be changed simultaneously by simply changing the data format and some resistive elements. There is no change in the filters, the equalization, the transmitter signaling interval, or the receiver sampling time. By using partial response channels, a number of commonly used data rates are easily obtained, using a physically realizable precoder and correlator. With correct timing and the use of orthonormal siginals, the signal-to-noise ratio is maximized at each data rate for bandlimited white noise under the constraints of fixed line signal power and no intersymbol interference. Timing error is considered in a two-speed transmission scheme, and the selection of a precoding matrix using eye opening as the criterion is studied. This study clearly demonstrates the advantage of changing the overall channel characteristics when changing the data rate. Eye openings obtained are equal to or larger than those of two conventional schemes transmitting at the same data rates."
"Let I(t, a) denote the stationary random process consisting of a sinusoidal signal of amplitude $\\sqrt{2a}$ and angular frequency q plus Gaussian noise, IN(t), of zero mean and unit variance."
"An analysis is made of the steady-state temperature distribution in a substrate with heat inputs from multiple sources. The problem is of interest in connection with integrated and thin film circuits mounted on ceramic or glass substrates. In these applications, convective heat transfer is present with either conduction along the leads joining the substrate to the heat sink or conduction to one end of the substrate which is heat sinked. A formal three-dimensional solution is obtained which is evaluated for various geometries, thermal conductivities, coefficients of convection and heat-sinking conditions."
"The characteristic impedance and propagation constant of a thin film superconducting strip transmission line has been derived by use of London's two fluid model. It is shown that this line at moderate frequency has negligible attenuation and dispersion. A periodically loaded cross film cryotron circuit is also analyzed. The attenuation, phase constant, and characteristic impedance of this loaded line is given and related to the parameters of the unloaded line by the factor K which is the ratio of the gate separation to the gate width."
"In recent years, the use of varactor diodes for harmonic generation has become increasingly widespread. Varactor harmonic generators come under the general class of pumped nonlinear systems, which are networks driven periodically by a pump or a local oscillator at a frequency ω0 and its harmonics. For such systems, a general method has been presented in this paper to obtain the scattering parameters which relate the small-signal fluctuations present at various points in the system. In particular, the scattering parameters of lossless abrupt-junction varactor harmonic generators of order 2n, 33, and 2n33 with minimum number of idlers have been obtained. It has been shown for these multipliers that there is no amplitude-to-phase or phase-to-amplitude conversion if fluctuations are in the vicinity of the carriers. With minor modifications this theory can be extended to the study of lossy varactor harmonic generators."
"The field distortion of a beam propagating through a sequence of identical, misaligned and slightly aberrated lenses is calculated as a perturbation of the Gaussian beam that would propagate in the absence of aberration. It is found that most of the converted power goes to the first and second modes. They produce deflection and spot-size change of the ideal beam, respectively. The power coupled to modes higher than the second deform the Gaussian profile. In general, the mode conversion per unit length of guide can be reduced by making the spot size small and by avoiding in-phase coupling at every lens. This last condition is achieved by choosing the period of oscillation of the beam different from an integer number of lens spacings. Before the beam becomes too distorted, the converted modes must be eliminated. Power in the first and second modes can be reconverted loss-lessly to the fundamental Gaussian beam by means of servoloops that redirect and refocus the beam. If refocusers are not used, the power in the second mode, as well as the power in the higher-order modes must be absorbed in mode filters such as irises. For lenses with fourth-order aberration such that at a beam half-width distance from the center the focal length departs δ percent from ideal, the following typical results are obtained: In a guide in which the distance between the beam and guide axes is a constant plus a sinusoid, the converted power is proportional to δ2, to the fourth power of the amplitude of the sinusoid and to the square of the number of lenses, but is roughly independent of the curvature of the guide axis. On the other hand, in a guide in which the distance between the beam and guide axes is a constant plus a random quantity the converted power is proportional to δ2, to the square of the guide curvature, to the mean square of the random deviation, and to the number of lenses. Fof &delta =1 percent, a 1 power conversion to the second mode occurs is typical examples, after a few of lenses, and the order of magnitude of mode conversion is 0.001 dB/lens. Most of that power is in the second mode and can be recovered with refocusers."
"The problem of automatic gain control is approached from a statistical point of view. A simple generic equation is found whose solution yields the required receiver gain or attenuation for minimum average cost of excluding (from the receiver's limited dynamic range) randomly fluctuating signals in random noise. A canonical phase-incoherent link is considered and the resulting transcendental equation is solved using an iterative technique. The analysis and the results obtained apply to both linear and nonlinear incoherent receivers including those of the logarithmic or lin-log type and to a range of fluctuation models including Rician, Rayleigh, and nonfluctuating cases. It is shown that the optimum receiver gain is relatively insensitive to the ratio of costs of saturation at the upper and lower dynamic range bounds, differing at most by about 3 dB from the optimum for the equal cost (minimum exclusion probability) case for typical parameters. The effect of noise introduced by the gain adjustment cascade itself is discussed. The results, presented in concise normalized form, are applicable to a wide range of signal, noise, and channel conditions and have important implications for communications through fading channels as well as for radar observation of fluctuating targets."
"In this paper, several results are presented concerning the effects of roundoff in the floating-point realization of a general discrete filter governed ideally by a stable difference equation of the form $w_{n}\\ =\\ \\sum_{k=0}^{M}\\ b_{k}_{n-k}\\ -\\ \\sum_{k=1}^{N}\\ a_{k}w_{n-k}, \\quad n \\geqq N \\qquad \\eqno{\\hbox{(1)}}$ in which {wn} and {xn} are output and input sequences, respectively. In particular, for a large class of filters it is proved that there is a function f(K) with f(K) → 0 as K → ∞ and a constant c, both dependent on the bk, the ak, the order in which the products on the right side of (1) are summed in the machine, and t, the number of bits allotted to the mantissa, such that $\\langle e \\rangle _{k} \\leqq c \\langle y \\rangle_{k}+f(K)$ for all K ≧ N, in which, with {yn} the computed output sequence of the realized filter, $\\langle y \\rangle_{k}=\\left({1 \\over k+1} \\sum_{n=0}^{k}\\vert y_{n}\\vert^{2}\\right)^{{1 \\over 2}}$ and $\\langle e \\rangle_{k}=\\left({1 \\over k+1} \\sum_{n=0}^{k}\\vert w_{n}- y_{n}\\vert^{2}\\right)^{{1 \\over 2}}$ Bounds on f(K) and c are given that are not difficult to evaluate, and which, in many realistic cases, are informative. For example, for the second-order bandpass filter: $w_{n}=x_{n}a_{1}w_{n-1}\\ - \\ a_{2}w_{n-2}, \\quad n \\geqq 2 \\qquad \\eqno{\\hbox{(2)}}$ with a1 and a2 chosen so that its poles are at approximately ± 45° and at distance approximately (but not less than) 0.001 from the unit circle, we find that c, an upper bound on the “asymptotic output error-to-signal ratio”, is not greater than 0.58 × 10−4 assuming that t = 27, that the terms on the right side of (2) are summed in the machine in the order indicated from right to left), and that the x_{n} in (2) are machine numbers. I f the x_{n} are not machine numbers, and hence must be quantized before processing, then c ≦ 0.76 × 10−4. In addition to error bounds, an inequality is derived which, if satisfied, rules out certain types of generally undesimble behavior such as self-sustained output limit cycles due to roundoff effects. This inequality is satisfied for the example described above."
"A model of an automaton, called a balloon automaton is proposed, It consists of a finite control, which may be deterministic or nondeterministic, an input tape which may be one way or two way, and an abstract, infinite memory, called the balloon, which can enter any of a countable number of states. There is assumed to be a recursive function which manipulates the state of the balloon, and another which passes a finite amount of information from the balloon to the finite control. A subset of the balloon automata is considered a closed class if it obeys two very simple closure properties. Certain closed classes recognize exactly the languages recognized by such familiar automata as the pushdown automaton or stack automaton. Unfortunately, no closed class recognizes the sets accepted by linear bounded automata or the time and tape complexity classes of Turing machines. It is shown that many of the usual closure properties of languages accepted by the pushdown automaton, stack automaton, etc., hold for an arbitrary closed class of balloon automata. For example, the languages accepted by a closed class of one-way, nondeterministic balloon automata are closed under concatenation. Of special interest is the fact that a closed class of two-way deterministic balloon automata is closed under inverse g.s.m. mappings. This fact is not obvious, and was not known for all of the types of automata which form closed classes of balloon automata. It should be emphasized that the purpose of this paper is not to propose another “model of a computer.” Rather, we are proposing a method of proving the standard theorems about existing and future models. Hopefully, when a model is proposed in the future, one will simply show it equivalent to a closed class of balloon automata, and have many of the closure properties automatically proven."
"The functional iterative approach given by Zador for calculating the average bit error probability in a regenerative repeater with quantized feedback is extended to the vector case. For a channel with a rational fraction transfer function, the vector extension permits us at least formally to deal with the following practical conditions: (i) The pulse transmission plan is described by an m-ary alphabet with independent digits. (ii) Perfect and imperfect low-frequency tail cancellation cases are considered. (iii) High-frequency signal shaping and its interaction with the predominantly low-frequency tail are taken into account. Expressions for error probability on the kth digit are derived in terms of the kth vector iterate of a known function. The restriction to independent noise samples is also removed. The resulting expression for kth bit error probability is then derived from an operational iteration procedure which acts on the k + 1 dimensional joint distribution of the noise samples."
"We present here an algorithm for factoring a given polynomial over GF(q) into powers of irreducible polynomials. The method reduces the factorization of a polynomial of degree m over GF(q) to the solution of about m(q − 1)/q linear equations in as many unknowns over GF(q)."
"This paper presents certain formulas for I(q, n, d), the number of information symbols in the q-ary Bose-Chaudhuri-Hocquenghem code of block length n = qm − 1 and designed distance d. By appropriate manipulations on the m-digit q-ary representation of d, we derive a simple linear recurrence for a sequence whose mth term is the number of information symbols in the BCH code. In addition to an exact solution of all finite cases, we obtain exact asymptotic results, as n and d go to infinity while their ratio n/d remains fixed. In this limit, the number of information symbols increases as n'. Specifically, we show that for fixed u, 0 ≦ u ≦ 1, $\\lim\\limits_{m \\rightarrow \\infty}\\ q^{-ms} I(q,q^{m}\\ -\\ 1, uq^{m})=1$ where s is a singular function of u. The function s(u) is continuous and monotonic nonincreasing; it has derivative zero almost everywhere. Yet s(0) = 1 and s(1) = 0. For q = 2, s(u) is plotted in Fig. 1."
"In a paper by J. A. Lewis (B.S.T.J., 40, 1961, pp. 1259–1280) general formulas for the electrical admittance of a piezoelectric resonator, having essentially one pair of electrodes, were derived in terms of motional parameters associated with the normal modes of vibration of the device. The logical extension of this work to a resonator with N electrodes is presented here. Expressions are given for both the admittance and impedance matrices of the resonator. These matrices are expressed in terms of motional parameters associated with, respectively, (i) the normal modes of vibration with all electrodes connected together, and (ii) all electrodes left open circuited. The electrical equivalent circuit for the 2-port characteristics of the N electrode resonator is given for two particular examples."
"It has been shown that isolated magnetic domains in thin platelets (≍2 mils thick) of orthoferrites can be manipulated to perform memory, logic, and transmission functions. The purpose of this paper is to discuss the properties of orthoferrites that make them suitable for magnetic device applications and consider magnetostatic problems relevant to domain structures found to be useful. Included is a brief indication of how memory, logic, and transmission can be accomplished; however, the details will be reserved for a later paper. The stability conditions of a cylindrical domain are discussed in detail and data is reported to support the conclusions. Of particular interest are the sizes of cylindrical domains available in the various orthoferrites. Such data has been taken on five of the fourteen possible orthoferrites and it is found that the thulium orthoferrite, TmFeO3, gives the smallest stable domain diameter (2.3 mils) and LuFeO3 the largest. The stability results lead to a direct method for obtaining σW, the domain wall energy density. For TmFeO3, as an example, σW = 2.8 ergs/cm2. It is concluded that the orthoferrites are well suited indeed for device applications. Experimentally, 3 mil diameter domains have been manipulated and there is every reason to believe that operation of sub-mil domains will soon be realized."
"In some communications systems, the need arises for temporally interpolating data or signalling information during continuous speech.1 If the required time gaps are created by simply interrupting the speech signal, severe degradation of speech quality and some loss in intelligibility results."
"This paper discusses the dynamics of high-field propagating domains in bulk semiconductors such as gallium arsenide. First, the origin of a high-field domain and its nucleation mechanism are discussed. Next, important properties of a steady-state high-field domain are briefly reviewed. Then, the “unequal” areas rule is derived to explain transient domain behavior. Domain buildup or decay speeds are discussed in detail, and conditions are presented under which two or more domains can exist simultaneously. Finally, the above discussions are applied to explain the high-field domain behavior in pulse circuits, variable frequency oscillators, waveform generators, and domain bypassing schemes. Numerical examples are also given to illustrate how fast these operations can be performed."
"Interest in circular-electric mode channel-dropping filters has been stimulated by recent advances in the repeater art. This paper presents the theory and establishes design procedures for filters having two-pole maximally flat response functions. The basic structure uses mode-conversion resonators, i.e., the resonating mode is the TE02 circular electric mode, for three of the resonators. The rejection filter portion of the structure is conventional in that two resonators separated by an odd multiple of π/2 radians realize the desired characteristic. The branching filter is novel in that a rectangular waveguide is wrapped around a mode-conversion resonator and coupled to the TE02 resonating mode via a multiplicity of apertures. The rectangular guide is then resonated to permit realization of the two-pole branching filter. The theory developed is an extension of Marcatili's original work on mode-conversion resonators. The mode-conversion resonator parameters are related to the elements of a lumped constant prototype network thus extending the utility of mode-conversion resonators. Experimental results are presented on several filter models. The agreement between theory and experiment is generally good. Four filters were developed for use in an all solid-state repeater experiment with successful results."
"Voltage-current ratios, measured using probes on the surface of a homogeneous conducting sheet, are converted to resistance per square by “conversion factors”. For rectangles, a closed form solution for these factors is obtained by using the complex Jacobian sine-amplitude function $x + iy\\ =\\ {\\rm sn}[(u+iv),k]$ as a transformation. After transformation, an insulated edge rectangle becomes a semi-infinite sheet. Two conjugate current point images establish the boundary condition. A double-sided rectangle becomes an infinite sheet directly, needing no images. New tables have been prepared for a pattern of probe center locations uniformly distributed over the surface. The probe chosen for these tables is a common arrangement having four equally spaced points on a line parallel to the longer edge of the rectangle."
"The application of the classical scaling laws of electro-magnetic fields to the design of a scaled-down model of, say, a building-sized shield is often difficult, even when using the simplifications permissible with a quasi-stationary magnetic field. The reasons are that (i) the scaled wall thickness often becomes impractically thin and (ii) the required scaling of frequency sometimes reduces the ratio of intrinsic wave-length in air to the enclosure length such that the quasi-stationary field theory no longer applies. In the case of a completely closed shield these limitations can be circumvented by having a model with two distinct geometric scaling factors, one for the wall thickness and one for the overall dimensions. The modified scaling laws governing this type of model are derived."
"A telephone connecting network is given, and with full information at all times about its state, routing policies are sought which minimize the expected number of attempted calls denied service in some finite interval. In this paper, the search is pursued as a mathematical problem in the context of a standard traffic model in terms of optimal control theory and dynamic programming. Certain combinatorial properties of the network, earlier found to be the key to minimizing the loss, also turn out to be relevant here: they lead to policies which differ from optimal policies only in accepting all unblocked call attempts, and provide a “practical” solution of the problem posed. In many cases, the policies found vindicate heuristic policies earlier conjectured to be optimal."
"The blurring of photographs by image motion during exposure is studied by means of a simple model. Conditions under which it is possible to recover the unblurred image are determined and some methods of restoration are described."
"A method of cathode activity measurement which yields fundamental cathode parameters has been developed. Basically, it is a modified dip test and consists of plotting cathode current vs cathode temperature. A simple geometric analysis of the data plot yields data that can be related from one tube to another and to the cathode work function. Thus, experience gained by this simple and rapid technique may be translated from one tube type to another. This technique can be used to obtain the work function as a function of cathode temperature and a method is suggested for obtaining work function as a function of current density."
"The coated powder cathode is an inexpensive, reproducible emitter which combines the virtues of various conventional cathode types, and is suited to use in modern high-power, high-reliability electron tubes. It is best considered as a modification of the classic oxide cathode in which each particle of the emissive coating is covered with a thin layer of nickel. Inherent advantages of this cathode over the oxide cathode include the ability to sustain current densities up to 1 amp/cm2 over long, calculable lifetimes, increased flexibility in time and temperature during processing, and improved coating adhesion. This paper describes the concept, fabrication and mechanism of the cathode and presents data obtained from a diode evaluation program."
"This study is primarily concerned with the question: If the method of equivalent linearization indicates the existence of a periodic solution, is there actually a periodic solution near the approximation of equivalent linearization? To answer this question, we use a modification of the contraction mapping fixed point theorem. We discuss applications to differential equations and difference-differential equations (with forcing functions). Also, we show that our use of contraction maps is not applicable (without modification) to autonomous systems because the mapping evaluated in the neighborhood of a periodic solution to an autonomous system is not a contraction in a space of periodic functions."
"In the recent literature, two noise contributors in FM systems have been analyzed: (i) intermodulation noise due to transmission deviations, and (ii) AM/PM intermodulation noise. Even though different, these two contributors have the same property of being functions of the baseband signal. Hence, one would expect them to be correlated to some degree. In this paper, we derive the expression for the power density spectrum for the sum of these two noise contributors. The resulting expression has been programmed on a digital computer. It has been found that, under certain conditions, the correlation can be quite significant. In fact, an example using a representative FM radio relay system shows that the correlation can result in greater than 4 dB error if the two contributors are assumed to be uncorrelated."
"We studied the phase progression properties of normal modes in a conical waveguide in order to develop techniques for analysis of multimode microwave antennas. We found that the large-order asymptotic expansions of Bessel functions developed by F. W. J. Olver are most appropriate for such calculations by virtue of their simplicity and uniformity with respect to argument. These expansions are applied to analysis of the conical TE11 and conical TM11 modes and, in addition, to an examination of the “quasi-cylindrical approximation” in which the conical waveguide is regarded as a cylindrical waveguide with gradually changing cross section."
"A coherent Gaussian beam transmitted through many imperfect lenses suffers a distortion of its profile. Particularly smooth polishing errors generate parasitic modes which travel with a slightly different propagation constant and about the same low loss as the beam. While the two modes of lowest order essentially influence position and width of the beam, all higher-order modes deform the profile and may hamper position control and detection if they build up to sufficient power. The calculations show that this effect can be reduced to a negligible amount if the beam cross-section is of the order or smaller than the dimensions of the irregularities. This is in agreement with experiments. The perturbation of the beam in the air path between the lenses is also investigated and it is shown from experimental data that this effect is negligible in a properly shielded underground lens guide."
"A simple analysis shows that the unit-cube conductance is a figure of merit in semiconductor device design theory. The unit-cube conductance, G, is given by 2Kvd where K is the permittivity of the semiconductor and vd is the limiting drift velocity. The space-charge resistance, Rsc, due to carrier generated under avalanche condition is derived for p-n junctions. It is found that for parallel-plane structure, Rsc = 1/GN, where N is the number of unit cubes in the depletion region with cube edge equal to the depletion width or N = A/W2 where W is the depletion width and A the junction area. The disturbance in voltage caused by the space-charge effect is given by I/GN = JW2/G where I and J are the current and current density, respectively. Similar results are obtained for p-n junctions with coaxial-cylinder and concentric-sphere structures. For silicon, the value of G is approximately 40 μmhos. The transconductance of a silicon surface-controlled avalanche transistor in terms of the unit-cube expression is about 12.5 N μmhos."
"Consideration of large alphabet digital communication systems is of both theoretical and practical interest. Although performance bounds on optimum systems for the Gaussian channel are available, constructive methods for approaching these bounds are unknown, except in a few very special cases. Specific systems have been proposed and evaluated relative to these bounds, but exact evaluation of error probability is generally a difficult numerical task. It is of interest to consider simpler performance criteria which permit comparison of various systems without extensive computation. An easily evaluated criterion (based on the alphabet size and minimum distance between signal vectors) is shown to yield a simple sufficient condition for one system to be better than another (smaller error probability for the same energy-per-bit). The criterion is applied to orthogonal, biorthogonal, simplex, and more general permutation modulation systems. In addition to comparing the various systems, we consider ways of obtaining good special cases of permutation modulation. Finally, we assess a recently proposed system (“N-orthogonal phase modulation”) and show that it is generally inferior to more conventional techniques."
"The grading or graded multiple proposed by E. A. Gray is a certain kind of one-stage, two-sided, partial access telephone connecting network for switching customers' lines to trunks all having the same destination. Its essential feature is that traffic from lines not having identical access patterns can be offered to a common trunk, and so pooled. In a progressive grading the trunk groups are partially ordered in a hierarchy, i.e., some provide primary routes, others function as secondary routes which handle traffic overflowing from primary routes, as well as originating traffic, etc., up to final routes. A call which is using an overflow or “later” trunk when it could be using a primary or “earlier” group is said to make a “hole in the multiple”. It was recognized early in the development of gradings that such holes were undesirable. The problem of optimal routing in telephone networks, considered in general in the author's earlier work, is here specialized to progressive gradings. It had been shown that for networks with certain combinatorial properties the optimal choices of routes for accepted calls (so as to minimize the loss under perfect information) could be described in a simple and intuitive way in terms of these properties. The present paper gives a proof that all progressive gradings have such a combinatorial property, associated with the hierarchical nature of the grading. The optimal policy for routing accepted calls is related to the phenomenon of “holes in the multiple”, and can be paraphrased in the traditional telephone terminology thus: filling a hole in the multiple is preferable to using a final route, and filling an earlier hole is preferable to filling a later one."
"Let K1(s,t) and K2(s,t), − T \\leqq s, t \\leqq T, be real, symmetric, continuous and strictly positive-definite kernels, and denote by K1 and K2 the corresponding integral operators. Let x(t) be a sample function of either of two zero-mean processes with covariances K1(s,t) and K2(s,t). We prove a generalized version of the following: If the integral equation$(K_{2}\\psi_{i})(t)=\\lambda_{i}(K_{1}\\psi_{i}(t),\\qquad -T\\ \\leqq\\ t\\ leqq\\ T$,$ has formal solutions λi and ψi(t) which may contain δ-functions, and if {K1ψi} forms a complete set in L2[-T,T], then (i) the two kernels have the following simultaneous diagonalization: $\\eqalignno{& K_{1}(s,t)\\ =\\ \\Sigma_{i}(K_{1} \\psi_{i})(s)(K_{1}\\psi_{i})(t)\\cr & K_{2}(s,t)\\ =\\ \\Sigma_{i}\\lambda_{i}(K_{1} \\psi_{i})(s)(K_{1}\\psi_{i})(t)}$ uniformly on [-T,T] × [-T, T], and (ii) the sample function has an expansion $x(t)\\ =\\ \\Sigma_{i}(x,\\psi_{i})(K_{i} \\psi_{i})(t)$ in the stochastic mean, uniformly in t, and the coefficients are simultaneously orthogonal, i.e., $E_{1}\\{(x, \\psi_{i})(x,\\psi_{i})\\} = \\delta_{ij}, \\qquad E_{2}\\{(x,\\psi_{i})(x, \\psi_{i}\\}=\\lambda_{i} \\delta_{ij}$, where (x,ψi) is obtained by formally integrating ψi(t) against x(t)."
"Magnetic devices mounted within an orbiting satellite interact with the earth's magnetic field and produce torque to modify the attitude or angular adjustment of the satellite axis of spin. The satellite environment dictates that these devices be designed for minimum weight or minimum power consumption, or a suitable compromise between these two minima. Principles of design of magnetic devices to satisfy these requirements are developed in this paper. The resulting design equations and charts enable the ready optimization of design and selection of preferred materials. While most of this work was directed initially at the Telstar$rG satellite project, the design charts and formulas are found useful in other areas of magnet design. Methods of magnetic measurement devised for the satellite are discussed."
"We consider, from a number of different viewpoints, the tensor coefficients which describe second harmonic generation, optical rectification, and the Pockels or linear electro-optic effect in acentric crystals. Stationary perturbation theory is used to calculate the low-frequency limit of the intrinsic electronic nonlinearity neglecting all effects due to local fields or lattice polarization. Solid methane is used as an example and the result used to estimate the coefficient in hexamethylene tetramine. The calculated result is within a factor of 2 of the experimental figure. The method is susceptible to further refinement and, since it requires only a knowledge of ground state wave functions, and is essentially very simple, it appears to offer a useful approach to the calculation of the coefficients. The classical anharmonic oscillator model is briefly covered and the model is related to a quantal treatment. We find that the anharmonic potential used in the model is directly related to the actual crystalline potential. It can also be related to the charge distribution in the electronic ground state. Local field corrections and the effects of lattice polarization are presented. These alter the nonlinear properties in a simple and obvious way, but one which has been misunderstood in some of the literature. Our results form a theoretical background to Miller's empirical rule relating the nonlinear coefficients to the linear susceptibilities. An extensive table of Miller-reduced tensor coefficients collated from the published literature is presented. Finally, we draw together some of the threads of the previous sections. An appendix deals with the vexing question of definitions."
"A high-capacity digital light deflector (DLD) using Wollaston prisms as the passive elements is described. It is shown that, for a 1-cm aperture, approximately 4(10)6 resolvable positions with a crosstalk ratio of 17 dB are theoretically possible. A manually-operated model was constructed that gave 1/4(10)6 resolvable positions with a crosstalk ratio of 20 to 28 dB. The output positions of the model showed resolution approximately equal to that set by diffraction theory. The problems associated with imperfect modulators are discussed and the characteristics of three different schemes of operation are calculated. Results from experiments with one such scheme, the reflection mode of operation, are given. They compare favorably with the calculations."
"Intermodulation distortion due to nonlinear elements in transistors is analyzed using Volterra series representation. It is shown that this technique is well suited for the analysis of transistor distortion where the nonlinearities are small but frequency dependent. An ac transistor model incorporating four nonlinearities is briefly described. The nonlinear nodal equations of the model are successively solved by expressing nodal voltages in terms of the Volterra series expansion of the input voltage. Based on this analysis, a digital computer program has been developed which computes the second and the third harmonic distortion for a given set of input frequencies and transistor parameters. The results compare favorably with measured values. This method also enables the derivation of closed form ac expressions for a simplified model; these expressions show the dependence of distortion on frequency, load and source impedances, bias currents and voltages, and the parameters of the transistor. The technique is also extended to cascaded transistors, and simplified expressions for the overall distortion in terms of the distortion and gain of individual transistors are derived. Finally, a few pertinent practical applications are discussed."
"This paper considers the effectiveness of error-correcting codes for the transmission of numerical data. In such a situation, errors in the numerically most significant positions of a message are of greater consequence than are errors in the less significant positions. A measure of transmission fidelity based upon the average magnitude by which the numbers delivered to the destination differ from the transmitted numbers is developed and is referred to as the average numerical error (ANE). Codes are compared by comparing the ANE that results from their use. Significant-bit codes are defined and the ANE resulting from their use is determined. For constant-symbol-rate transmission, the relative effectiveness of various coding schemes is analyzed when the error probability in the channel is small. The ANE resulting from the use of certain specific codes is numerically evaluated and compared."
"In a recent brief1 in the B.S.T.J., Zador presents, without proof, realizability conditions for the input impedance of the lossless tapered transmission line terminated in unit resistance. Upon a careful examination of the brief, it appears that the conditions are not accurate. The following analysis clarifies this point and, incidentally, provides alternatives to Zador's necessary conditions."
"An Automatic Transmission Measuring System (ATMS) has been designed to provide means for making rapid and accurate transmission measurements on telephone trunks. The system consists of a control unit (director) in one office and one or more responding units (responders) at distant locations. Trunk selection (not treated in detail in this paper) is accomplished either by a specially designed test frame in electromechanical offices or by special programming in electronic offices. All measurement sequences are under command of the director which in turn receives its information from a teletypewriter tape or punched cards. New measurement techniques utilized in ATMS which permit rapid and accurate measurements are discussed. System accuracy of ±0.1 dB for loss and ±1 dB for noise is achieved using these techniques. Total measurement time (excluding trunk seizure and printout time) for loss measurements in both directions and noise at both ends is less than five seconds. Although the ATMS is presently capable of making only loss and noise measurements, additional measurements can be added conveniently because of its modular design and construction. Where responders are not installed at the distant offices, other kinds of existing Bell System transmission test lines may be utilized by the director to make whatever measurements the test line permits. Two schemes are described whereby measurements may be made on trunks between two remote central offices and the results sent to a controlling director in a third office."
"Recent advances in solid-state device technology for generating millimeter waves as well as advances in component design for IF and baseband portions of repeaters have renewed interest in millimeter-wave guided-wave communication systems. This paper describes a 306 Mb/s, all solid-state repeater which has been built using a 1.3-GHz IF and a form of differentially-coherent phase modulation. A signal-to-noise ratio of 13.6 dB is required for an error probability of 10−9 (compared with a theoretical value of 13.0 dB for an ideal differentially-coherent phase-modulated system). Sufficient gain for 15-mile repeater spacings (using two-inch circular waveguide) has been obtained with an LSA diode, an IMPATT diode, and a varactor multiplier as the millimeter-wave power source."
"A quantitative theory of 1/f type noise is derived from the distribution of trapping times for charges in interface states. The distribution of trapping times has been recently explained quantitatively by means of a random distribution of surface potential caused by a random distribution over the plane of the interface of fixed charges located in the oxide. This model, which agrees with the interface state time constant dispersion measured by the MIS conductance technique, leads to a noise spectrum which is independent of frequency at very low frequencies, tends towards a 1/f2 dependence at high frequencies, and has an extended 1/f frequency dependence at intermediate frequencies. The mechanism for time constant dispersion is independent of temperature and silicon resistivity; it depends only on the majority carrier density at the silicon surface, the interface state density, and the density of fixed oxide charges. The dependence of open circuit mean square noise voltage on these parameters and frequency are illustrated for an MOS capacitor."
"A general analysis of stability conditions of pumped nonlinear systems is presented in this paper. The type of instability investigated for these systems is that which causes spurious tones to appear at any point in the system in the vicinity of an appropriate harmonic carrier. A set of stability criteria that assure stability for the system has been given in terms of scattering parameters of the system. These criteria have then been applied to investigate the stability of lossless varactor harmonic generators that have been shown in this paper to be potentially unstable systems. It is then investigated for these multipliers how instability arises, and how it can be avoided by proper terminations. For some simple terminations, which are usually used in practice, sufficient conditions, that assure total stability of the multipliers, are explicitly given."
"The numerical integration formula $y_{n+1}\\ = \\ \\sum _{k=0}^{P} a_{k}y_{n}-k\\ +\\ h \\sum_{k=-1}^{p}\\ b_{k}y_{n-k}^{\\prime}, \\quad n \\geqq p \\qquad \\eqno{\\hbox{(1)}}$ can be used to obtain a numerical solution of the system of nonlinear differential equations $\\dot{x}+f(x,t)\\ =\\ 0, \\quad t \\geqq 0 [x(0)\\ =\\ x_{0}]\\qquad \\eqno{\\hbox{(2)}}$ In many instances, it is known beforehand that the solution of (2) possesses a particular property such as boundedness or asymptotic periodicity with a given period, and it is then of interest to analytically determine the range of values of the step size h such that the sequence {yn} defined by (1) exhibits (at least) that property. In this paper, we consider problems of this type [but do not actually use assumptions concerning the character of the solution of (2)], and we study also the overall effect of solving instead of (1) the equation $z_{n+1}\\ = \\ \\sum _{k=0}^{P} a_{k}y_{n}-k\\ +\\ h \\sum_{k=-1}^{p}\\ b_{k}z_{n-k}^{\\prime}\\ R_{n}, \\quad n \\geqq p $ which takes into account the effect of local roundoff errors and errors in the starting values. We consider explicitly only the case in which x(t) is scalar valued."
"Suppose that $p_{n}\\ = \\ 10 {\\rm log}_{10}\\ [10^{x_{1}/10} + \\ldots + 10^{x_{n}/10}]$,$ where {Xn} is a sequence of independent random variables. The main result of this paper shows that under very general conditions on the sequence {Xn}, the power sums Pn will be asymptotically normally distributed. This result supports a commonly used normal approximation, and shows why many physical quantities obtained by power addition of random variables tend to be normally distributed in dB."
"The power sum of Pn n components X1, X2, …, Xn is defined by the relation $p_{n}\\ = \\ 10 {\\rm log}_{10}\\ [10^{X_{1}/10} + \\ldots + 10^{X_{n}/10}]$ The distributions of such power sums are studied both analytically and by Monte Carlo simulation techniques for the case where the components are independent, identically distributed, truncated normal random variables. Results are given in terms of distributions and moments of Pn. The number of components varies from 2 to 256, and the standard deviation of the component variables before truncation ranges from 1 to 10 dB. The dependence of the results on the choice of truncation point is also investigated."
"It is well known that the quantity Mv(n, θ), the maximum number of nonoverlapping spherical caps of half angle θ (a “packing”) which can be placed on the surface of a unit sphere in Euclidean n-space is not less than exp [– n log sin 2θ + o(n)] (θ < π/4). In this paper we give a new proof of this fact by a “random coding” argument, the central part of which is a theorem which asserts that if a set of roughly exp (–n log sin 2 θ) caps is chosen at random, that on the average only a very small fraction of the caps will overlap (when n is large). A related problem is the determination of Mc(n, θ), the minimum number of caps of half angle θ required to cover the unit Euclidean n-sphere. We show that Mc(n, θ) = exp [–n log sin θ + o(n)]. The central part of the proof is also a random coding argument which asserts that if a set roughly exp (–n log sin θ) caps is chosen at random, that on the average only a very small fraction of the surface of the n-sphere will remain uncovered (when n is large)."
"In differential pulse code modulation (DPCM) systems, often referred to as predictive quantizing systems, the quantizing noise manifests itself in two forms, granular noise and slope overload noise. The study of overload noise in DPCM may be abstracted to the following stochastic processes problem. Let the input to the system be a Gaussian stochastic process {x(t)} with a bandlimited (0, ∫0) spectrum F(f). Denote the output of the system by y(t). Most of the time y(t) is equal to x(t). During time intervals of this kind, the absolute value of the derivative x'(t) = dx(t)/dt is less than a given positive constant x'0. (In a DPCM system, x'0 = kf. where k is the maximum level of the quantizer and ∫s is the sampling frequency.) There are time intervals, Ii(t(i)0, t(i)1) (i = 0, ± 1, ±2, …), for which y(t) ≠ x(t). These time intervals begin at time instants t(i)0 such that | x'(t(i)0) | increases through the value x'0. For t ∊ Ii, y(t) = x(t(i)0) + (t − t(i)0)x'0. The interval ends at t(i)1, when x(t) and y(t) become equal again. The overload noise in the DPCM system is defined to be n(t) = x(t) − y(t). The problem is to study the random process {n(t)}. In the present paper, we will give an upper bound to the average noise power $\\langle n^{2}(t)\\rangle_{av}$ which at the same time is a very good approximation to the noise power itself. Two previous attempts have been made to find $\\langle n^{2}(t)\\rangle_{av}$. One, due to Rice and O'Neal, involves an approximation valid only for very large x'0. Another approach to the problem, due to Zetterberg, includes an ingenious way of avoiding the determination of t(i)1. A new approach is given here that combines the best features of the two methods. The present result is a better approximation for slope overload noise than has been previously obtained. The result differs from previous results but is asymptotically equal to that given by Rice and O'Neal for x'0 → ∞. In the region where overload noise is important, the present result is in very good agreement with computer simulation and experiment. The technique used could be applied for the determination of other statistical characteristics of the error random process."
"A pulse modulation system is modeled with M waveforms {sm(t)}M1, each of which is amplitude scaled and simultaneously transmitted over a single physical channel. An infinite pulse train is assumed with signal interval T, which is determined by bandwidth consideration of the channel. We restrict the receiver to be linear with M outputs, one for each signal waveform. At a high signal-to-noise ratio the main sources of interference at the input to the receiver are the intersymbol interference and crosstalk; by crosstalk we mean the interference between the different waveforms. It is desirable, therefore, for the receiver to eliminate both types of interference and to minimize the remaining error due to additive noise in the channel. This constraint on the intersymbol interference and crosstalk is defined as the generalized Nyquist criterion. The receiver which accomplishes the above is determined for a mean square error criterion. Finally, some examples are presented which demonstrate the ease with which the generalized Nyquist criterion can be used to design waveforms without intersymbol interference or crosstalk."
"The restriction imposed by linear distortion on the flow of information in a communication channel is well known. In the past, the effects of this distortion have been alleviated through the use of manually adjusted equalizing or compensating networks. The adjustment of these networks is too cumbersome a process for the user of a switched communication service to perform each time a new connection is established. Therefore, in present switched networks, control of linear distortion is imposed only on the individual links. Variation between links and variation of the number of links in tandem result in channels with distributed performance. Lower distortion can be achieved by equalizing the overall connection. Recent developments have made automatic linear distortion removal (equalization) practical for synchronous data communication systems. Here an implementation is described wherein these techniques have been generalized so that automatic equalization can be provided for a communication channel independent of the signal format used in that channel. For a number of applications the speed of automatic equalization makes efficient end-to-end equalization practical in a switched network. The implementation described affords automatic minimization of the discrepancy between a specified response and the actual response of a linear transmission medium. Thus, on the one hand, it permits the automatic reduction of transmission defects such as signal dispersion and echoes, and, on the other hand, it permits the mechanized synthesis of filters with specified transfer functions. This paper reviews the general aspects of automatic equalization, describes an implementation of a general purpose automatic equalizer, discusses the theoretical performance of such an equalizer as determined from computer simulations, and lastly presents results for the equalization of real channels using the implementation described."
"Cities A1, …, An in the plane are to be interconnected by two-way communication channels. N(i, j) channels are to go between Ai and Ai. One could install the N(i, j) channels along a straight line, for every pair i, j. However it is usually possible to save money by rerouting channels over longer paths in order to group channels together. In this way, large numbers of channels share such preliminary expenses as real estate, surveying, and trench digging. The geometry of the least expensive network will depend on the numbers of channels N(i, j) and on the function f(N) which represents the cost per mile of installing N channels along a common route. If the preliminary expenses are the only expenses then f(N) is a constant, independent of N. In that case the best network is obtained by routing channels along lines of the “Steiner minimal tree”, a graph which has been studied extensively and which can be constructed by ruler and compass. In part, this paper generalizes Steiner minimal trees for the case of an arbitrary function f(N). One again obtains a ruler and compass construction for a minimizing tree, which is likely to provide a best or good solution when preliminary costs are a significant part of the total cost. However the minimizing tree need not be the best solution in general because further cost reductions may now be possible by using graphs which have cycles. Other properties of Steiner minimal trees generalize only part way, and some examples illustrate the new complications. The remainder of the paper considers functions f(N) with special properties. A convexity property $f(N+2)-2F(N+1)+f(N)\\leqq 0, N\\ =\\ 1,2,\\ldots$ ensures that there is a minimizing solution in which all N(i, j) channels between Ai and Ai take the same path (no split routing). If f(N) is a linear function (f(N) = a + bN), one can obtain simple bounds on the minimum cost. The lower bound is fairly accurate."
"Measurements of the equivalent parallel conductance of metal-insulator-semiconductor (MIS) capacitors are shown to give more detailed and accurate information about interface states than capacitance measurements. Experimental techniques and methods of analysis are described. From the results of the conductance technique, a realistic characterization of the Si–SiO2 interface is developed. Salient features are: A continuum of states is found across the band gap of the silicon. Capture cross sections for holes and electrons are independent of energy over large portions of the band gap. The surface potential is subject to statistical fluctuations arising from various sources. The dominant contribution in the samples measured arises from a random distribution of surface charge. The fluctuating surface potential causes a dispersion of interface state time constants in the depletion region. In the weak inversion region the dispersion is eliminated by interaction between interface states and the minority carrier band. A single time constant results. From the experimentally established facts, equivalent circuits accurately describing the measurements are constructed."
"For nonlinear applications such as high-speed switching, a device figure of merit is γ, the ratio of the second derivative to the first derivative of the current-voltage (I-V) characteristic, or γ ≡ (d2I/dV2)/(dI/dV). At room temperature, the value of γ for an ideal forward-bias Schottky diode is about 40 V−1. It is shown that although the ideal reverse breakdown characteristic could give a value of γ greater than 40 V−1, because of the statistical distribution of impurities, the effect of space-charge resistance, and other complications, much lower values of γ are expected. Furthermore, the nonlinear characteristic is noisy, relatively slow, and causes some power consumption. It appears, therefore, that this nonlinearity is not likely to supersede Schottky barrier diodes in high-speed switching applications. It does not, however, rule out the possibility of microwave generation application."
"An earlier experiment by Riesz and Klemmer on the effect of pure-transmission delay upon natural telephone conversations was extended in a test with more than double the time period and number of calls. The previous finding of little or no adverse reaction to round-trip pure delays of 600 and 1200 msec alone was confirmed. The previous finding of a large increase in dissatisfaction with both of these delays following exposure to 2400 msec was not obtained. Exposure to delays of 2400 msec led to no dissatisfaction with later calls at 600 msec, but some rejections at 1200 msec did occur. There is no contradiction of other results on normal telephone circuits with 2-wire terminations (and related echo sources, paths, and suppressors) wherein customer dissatisfaction is greater with 600 msec delay than with the much shorter delay of a normal long-distance circuit."
"Two types of binary differentially-coherent phase-shift-keyed signals (designated AM-DCPSK and FM-DCPSK) which look attractive for high-speed digital communication systems are considered. The error rate as a function of signal-to-noise ratio is calculated for each type of signal. For the AM-DCPSK signal the effects of intersymbol interference from adjacent time slots, phase distortion in the pulses, nonideal delay lines in the differential phase detector and nonideal regeneration (in a sense described in the text) are considered. For the FM-DCPSK signal the effects of nonideal regeneration and of a degradation parameter δ are considered. The parameter δ can be readily associated with phase distortion and nonideal delay lines in the differential phase detector. By means of a straightforward but tedious calculation it can be related to intersymbol interference if the transfer characteristics of the channel are known. The results of the calculations are presented, in graphical form, for wide ranges of signal-to-noise ratio and of the parameters which describe the intersymbol interference and nonideal regenerator performance. Error rates from 10−10 to 10−4 are considered."
"High-speed digital repeaters are being considered in the Bell System and elsewhere for both long- and short-haul communication systems. This paper describes two devices which were built to serve as prototypes of the IF portion of a millimeter guided-wave communication system but which might serve equally well as the IF portion of the repeaters for an optical communication system or for microwave radio systems. These two prototypes, designed for a differentially coherent phase-shift-keyed (DCPSK) signal, have been built and operated at a bit rate of 160 Mb/s using an 11.2-GHz IF signal. Both models operated with error rates very close to those predicted theoretically. One of the models seems to be particularly suitable for such systems; it consists of comparatively simple circuitry, and its operation is within 0.5 dB of the theoretical ideal behavior for a DCPSK system."
"Symmetries that we can perceive with one eye can be made to disappear during binocular fusion — that is, a symmetrical pattern in one of a pair of stereoscopic images may not be seen when we view the pair stereoscopically. This phenomenon should not be confused with the classically-known binocular rivalry in which the left and right images cannot be fused and one of the images is alternately suppressed. The type of suppression phenomenon reported here is obtained for computer-generated random-dot patterns in which locally each picture element can be fused in a stable way. The binocularly suppressed symmetry can be one-, two-, and four-fold, and the experiments give some insight into the processes underlying the perception of symmetry. In addition to symmetries, it becomes possible to scramble text by exhibiting it stereoscopically."
"When a varactor frequency upconverter is used as the output device in a communications transmitter, it is often desirable to operate at maximum power output. For such operation, the design procedure includes a large-signal analysis under overdriven conditions, requiring the use of a computer for solution. Equations for the instantaneous varactor charge, current, and voltage are derived assuming that only three currents are present: those corresponding to the signal, pump, and output frequencies. Numerical solutions corresponding to maximum power output are obtained for both graded-junction and abrupt-junction varactors. Values of power output, conversion efficiency, input impedances, load impedance, and bias voltage are presented for ranges of drive level (1 to 2) and varactor quality (0.001 ≦ ω3 &omegac 0.1) sufficient to include most practical designs."
"We consider the accuracy with which a numerical solution of the system of ordinary differential equations $\\dot{x}+f(x,t)=0, \\quad t \\leqq 0$ can be obtained by the use of a numerical integration formula of the well-known type $y_{n\\ =\\ 1}\\ \\sum_{k=0}^{p}\\ a_{k}y_{n-k}+h\\ \\sum_{k=-1}^{p}b_{k}y_{n-k}^{\\prime}$ For the scalar case, under some natural assumptions, and assuming that α and β are real constants such that $\\alpha \\leqq {\\partial f(x,t)\\over \\partial_{x}}\\leqq \\beta, \\quad t \\leqq 0$ at every point x, it is proved that if $F(z)\\triangleq 1- \\sum_{k=0}^{p} a_{k}z^{-(k+1)}+ {1 \\over 2} (\\alpha + \\beta)h \\sum_{k=-1}^{p} b_{k}z^{-(k+1)} \\neq 0$ for all | z | ≦ 1, then $\\lange e \\rangle,$ the root-mean-squared error over a given interval, between the true samples of x(t) and the yn, satisfies $\\langle e \\rangle \\geqq (1= \\rho)^{-1}\\ \\min_{0 \\leqq \\omega \\leqq 1 \\phi}\\ \\left\\vert F(e^{i \\omega})\\right\\vert^{-1} \\langle \\varphi\\rangle$ in which ρ depends on α, β, the ak, and the bk, and $\\langle \\varphi\\rangle$ takes into account the local roundoff and truncation errors as well as errors in the starting values for computing the yn. If the condition on F(z) stated above holds, and if &rho < 1, then $\\langle e \\rangle \\geqq (1= \\rho)^{-1}\\ \\min_{0 \\leqq \\omega \\leqq 1 \\phi}\\ \\left\\vert F(e^{i \\omega})\\right\\vert^{-1} \\langle \\varphi\\rangle$."
"The potential of high-speed optical memories using electro-optic or acousto-optic light deflection for address selection is examined. It is shown that for such memories the total memory capacity decreases as the third power of the addressing rate and that capacities in excess of 108 bits are feasible with a random access rate of 106 addresses/sec. A specific semipermanent memory design is then described which uses a laser light source, an acoustic xy light deflector and an array of 104 holograms as information storage elements. Each storage element contains 104 bits which appear as a pattern on a semiconductor read-out matrix when the storage element is illuminated through the xy deflector. Accordingly, the system has a total capacity of 108 bits with an access time of less than 10 μsec."
"This paper applies previous work1 on estimation of the mean of a stationary random process by periodic sampling to estimation of the variance with the added restriction that the process under consideration be Gaussian with known mean."
"A structure has been proposed and fabricated in which semipermanent charge storage is possible. A floating gate is placed a small distance from an electron source. When an appropriately high field is applied through an outer gate, the floating gate charges up. The charges are stored even after the removal of the charging field due to much lower back transport probability. Stored-charge density of the order of 1012/cm2 has been achieved and detected by a structure similar to an metal-insulator-semiconductor (MIS) field effect transistor. Such a device functions as a bistable memory with nondestructive read-out features. The memory holding time observed was longer than one hour. These preliminary results are in fair agreement with a simple analysis."
"One of the earliest computers used capacitors as its memory.1 A mechanical means was used for both read-in and read-out operations. Electronic accessing was used in conjunction with vacuum tube or solid-state diodes in relatively modern computers such as the SEAC computer.2 Capacitor storage is rarely used at present since magnetic memories meet the modern computer requirements much better. The inherent difficulty with capacitor storage was the limited holding time since a nonlinear resistor with small enough leakage currents to allow useful memory holding time was then not readily available. The old capacitor memory was charged through a diode with slow recovery time and with leakage current of 10−10 amp at best and required a large capacitor for any appreciable holding time. Furthermore, the read-out was usually destructive."
"A system is described in which a special type of syllabic compandor and other features offer an improved solution to the problems of using HF radio facilities for overseas telephone trunks. A major disadvantage of existing systems is the use of voice-operated gates to prevent singing and echo effects. These gates interfere with the free flow of conversation. The new system allows stable full-duplex operation as in conventional telephone circuits because a nearly constant circuit loss is maintained between the trunk terminals. Significant improvements in circuit quality result from full-duplex operation and from a reduction in the effects of radio noise and interference by compandor action. Preliminary results of a field trial between New York and Buenos Aires have been highly favorable."
"A laser beam was transmitted over a distance of 1/2 mile in an underground iron pipe using glass lenses 400 feet apart. The beam deflection and the temperature gradient in the air-filled pipe was measured simultaneously over periods of several weeks. It was found that gradients up to 0.02°C/cm, changing with the season, accounted for beam displacements up to 2 cm on the lenses. Since all these deviations are slow and no other severe disturbance was noticed, the conclusion is that the transmission of optical beams underground is possible without evacuation of the conduit. Suggestions for the construction of such a beam waveguide are made which could reduce the mentioned temperature influence by a factor of 100."
"This paper is concerned with the axis-crossings of the resultant phase $-\\pi \\leqq \\theta(t,a)\\leqq π$ of a sinusoidal signal of amplitude $\\sqrt{2a}$ and frequency ∫0 plus Gaussian noise of unit variance having a narrow-band power spectral density which is symmetrical about ∫0. The discontinuous phase process θ(t,a) is present at the output of the IF amplifier of a radio or radar receiver during the reception of a sinusoidal signal immersed in Gaussian noise. Also, the phase process θ(t,a) is basic in Rice's recent analysis of noise in FM receivers. The following theoretical results are presented concerning the axis-crossings (level-crossings) of θ(t,a) at an arbitrary level θ (i) The average number of upward (or downward) axis-crossings per second. (ii) The conditional probability that an upward axis-crossing occurs between t + τ and t + τ + dr given a downward axis-crossing at t. (iii) The conditional probability that a downward axis-crossing occurs between t + τ and t + τ + dr given an upward axis-crossing at t. (iv) The conditional probability that an upward axis-crossing occurs between t + τ and t + τ + dr given an upward axis-crossing at t. (v) The variance of the number of axis-crossings observed in a time τ. The theoretical probability functions are presented in graphs as a continuous function of τ for various values of θ and “a” for the case when the Gaussian noise has a Gaussian power spectral density."
"This article presents a set of curves that can be used to evaluate in detail over a wide range of operating conditions the performance of systems using envelope detectors to search for CW signals in narrow-band Gaussian noise. The charts discussed relate the probability, PD, of detecting such signals to (i) the signal-power/noise-power ratio, S/N, (ii) the proportion of false detections, PFA, and (iii) the number, M, of independent samples of the envelope of the combined signal and noise that are averaged in making one attempt at detection. The curves and scales were calculated and drawn entirely by computer. The computation program was designed so that nearly linear curves could be produced, thereby increasing the accuracy and ease of interpolation."
"The presence of phase and amplitude modulation in the signals of a varactor frequency multiplier is analyzed, and some general multiplier properties are derived. The following summarizes one of the most important results of this paper. Consider a frequency multiplier which has the following characteristics: (i) a varactor which has a square-law characteristic, (ii) the order of multiplication is N = 2n = 2, 4, etc., (iii) the minimum number of idlers, and (iv) it is lossless and tuned. It is shown that for this multiplier there is no conversion between small-index, low-frequency amplitude and phase modulation. Therefore, since narrow-band noise from external sources will be present at the input and output of the multiplier, the noise components corresponding to phase modulation of the carriers can be treated independently of the noise components corresponding to amplitude modulation. Consider now the input and output noise sidebands corresponding to phase modulation (PM). It is shown that the multiplier behaves with respect to these sidebands as an amplifier with the following properties: (i) a forward voltage transmission equal to N, (ii) unity reverse transmission, (iii) an output reflection of 1, −1, 3, respectively, for N = 2, 4, 8, and (iv) no input reflections. As a consequence of these properties the multiplier is “potentially” unstable with respect to PM. The utility of the multiplier properties derived in this paper will be illustrated by the discussion in a companion paper in this issue which shows how, in practical cases, instability arises and how it can be avoided."
"A general analysis of the stability conditions of frequency multipliers of order N = 2n is presented. The frequency multipliers to be considered are harmonic generators which use varactor diodes as nonlinear elements. The type of instability investigated is that which causes spurious tones to appear at the output of a multiplier in the vicinity of the desired harmonic. It arises because an efficient multiplier is potentially unstable with respect to the quadrature components of its sidebands. This paper shows how instability arises and how it can be avoided. One of the main results is that, to obtain stability in practical cases, it is sufficient that the bandwidths of the various resonant circuits satisfy some simple conditions."
"A novel method is presented for echo-cancellation in long distance telephone connections. In contrast with conventional echo suppressors, the device described achieves echo-cancellation without interrupting the return path. A replica of the echo is synthesized and subtracted from the return signal. The replica is synthesized by means of a filter which, under the control of a feedback loop, adapts to the transmission characteristic of the echo path and tracks variations of the path that may occur during a conversation. The adaptive control loop is described by a set of simultaneous, nonlinear, first-order differential equations. It is shown that under ideal conditions, the echo converges to zero. Estimates of the rate of convergence are obtained. Effects of noise are discussed. The results of computer simulations of various alternative configurations of the system are described."
"Conductance-voltage and capacitance-voltage curves of metal-oxide semiconductor (MOS) capacitors on n-type silicon were investigated in the temperature range between room temperature and 200°C. Plots of the inversion-layer conductance versus reciprocal temperature show a sequence of two activation energies: one corresponding to the temperature dependence of the intrinsic carrier density ni, the other to that of n2i. The low-temperature range is characterized by recombination-generation in the space-charge region, the high-temperature range by diffusion current from the bulk. The technique permits measurement of bulk lifetime for the two regimes and determination of room temperature cutoff frequency for the channel."
"It is shown in this paper that the charge-control concept can be conceived as a special form of the Linvill model for semiconductors. Instead of mathematical tools, charge-control models become equivalent circuits amenable to ordinary network analysis techniques. In the simplest form, the charge-control equivalent circuit for the junction transistor is fully equivalent to the Linvill and the Beaufoy-Sparkes model. For all practical purposes, it is also equivalent to the Ebers-Moll model. The charge-control junction transistor equivalent circuit combines those features of the other models that are important for electrical engineering applications. It also permits the conversion between the three basic types of models. Because of its close relationship to the physical processes governing a device, it can readily be extended to higher-order phenomena. This is usually done by expressing a Linvill-type lumped model in terms of charge parameters. The charge-control equivalent circuit can be useful for modeling a variety of semiconductor devices."
"Optimum reception of two zero-mean Gaussian signals is accomplished by comparing a quadratic form ∫ ∫ x(s)H(s,t)x(t) ds dt in the observable waveform x(t) with a predetermined threshold, if the symmetric kernel H(s,t) can be given as a square-integrable solution of $\\int R_{1}(s,u)H(u,v)R_{2}(v,t)\\ du\\ dv=R_{2}(s,t)-R_{1}(s,t)$,$ where R1(s,t) and R2(s,t) are the covariances of the two signals. In this paper, we generalize this result so that Σl,m ∫ ∫ x(l) (s)Hlm(s,t)x(m) (t) ds dt is the quadratic form to be used and {Hlm(s,t)} is given as a formal solution of $\\Sigma_{l,m} \\int {\\partial^{l}\\over \\partial u^{l}} R_{1}(s,u) H_{lm}(u,v){\\partial^{m} \\over \\partial v^{m} R_{2}(v,t)\\ du\\ dv= R_{2}(s,t) - R_{1}(s,t)$. In other words, the generalized quadratic form is in the derivatives of x(t) as well as x(t) itself and the kernels Hlm(s,t) consist of two-dimensional δ-functions in addition to square-integrable functions. This result is extended to the case of two nonzero-mean signals and then to the case of M Gaussian signals in noise."
"This paper analyzes different methods of adjusting the sampling time for detecting synchronous binary data, based on properties of the random data signal itself. The static error and the variance of the jitter of the resultant sampling instant are calculated where the effects of frequency offset, additive noise, signal overlap, and jitter of the reference source are included. The threshold crossing timing recovery system adjusts the sampling time in response to the times at which the data signal crosses the amplitude threshold. The sampled-derivative system uses the time derivative of the signal at the sampling time to adjust sampling phase. It is shown that both systems lead to approximately the same amount of jitter in the presence of noise and signal overlap for a given bandwidth of the control loop. An improved timing recovery system is presented which is constructed by adding correction signals to the sampled-derivative system. This system accounts for intersymbol interference in a manner that tends to set the sampling time at the point of maximum eye opening, where the error probability is minimum for the most adverse message sequence."
"We have studied the fluctuations produced in a laser beam by atmospheric turbulence over transmission paths up to 2400 feet long as a function of size of receiving aperture, range, and atmospheric conditions. The depth of modulation decreases rapidly with increasing size of receiving aperture for apertures smaller than the direct beam. It does not go to zero, however, but rather levels off at an approximately constant, finite value for apertures larger than the direct beam. When all of the direct beam is collected, the depth of modulation varies approximately with the 3/2 power of range from about 100 to 2400 feet, the largest range used. At ranges less than about 100 feet, however, the dependence is consistently much less than 3/2. These results are independent of weather conditions, of time of day, of local conditions along the path, of whether the transmitter is inside or outside a building, of a twofold change in diameter of the launched beam, of whether the range is a straight pass or is multiply-folded, and of mirror separation in the multiply-folded arrangement. The 3/2 dependence is consistent with near-field scattering theory and leads to an estimate for the lower bound of the effective scale size of turbulence of 5 centimeters. The depth of modulation, however, depends sensitively on atmospheric conditions; in a time of the order of seconds the value can change as much as an order of magnitude. We have systematically measured depth of modulation of the direct beam simultaneously with wind velocity and variability, temperature gradients, and time of day. No simple dependence on these variables was found."
"The application of matrix iterative analysis to the solution of waveguide discontinuity problems is discussed. It is concluded that the “Gauss-Seidel” or “point-single-step” method offers several advantages over more conventional invertive procedures, particularly in the speed of execution. Two examples are presented as illustrations: analysis of an H-plane discontinuity in a rectangular waveguide and conversion from TE11 to TM11 modes at an abrupt discontinuity in a circular waveguide. The latter results are shown to be in good agreement with measured values obtained in a previous investigation."
"A brief review of surface physics is given as background for the subsequent discussion on the role of surfaces in the behavior of semiconductor devices. The effects of channels and surface generation-recombination on p-n junctions and transistor characteristics are discussed. The observed effects of ionizing radiation on nonpassivated, gas-filled transistors are interpreted in terms of a model in which ions formed in the gas ambient deposit charge on the device surface. The resultant surface charge buildup creates channels on the device surface which cause a decrease in hFE and increase in ICBO. Saturation, recovery, and the effects of dose rate and bias are also discussed. Degradation of planar passivated transistors and other devices employing SiO2 layers due to radiation is similar to that observed for nonpassivated devices. Surface charge buildup affects the device surface and leads to degradation. The bulk of experimental evidence points to accumulation of positive charge at the SiO2–Si interface as the cause of degradation. Several possible means of charge buildup at the interface are discussed. However, the process responsible has not, as yet, been identified. The direction of future experiments is discussed, particularly of those experiments which may yield information about the part played by radiation in positive charge accumulation at the SiO2–Si interface."
"A high-quality, narrow-band, bandpass-bandstop directional filter for use in the microwave frequency range is described. This new design does not require any hybrid junctions or circulators; the directional filter merely consists of one waveguide T-junction and a pair of complementary waveguide filters. The configuration is structurally simple and quite compact. After presenting some of the considerations pertaining to the choice of the new structure, a complete synthesis procedure is developed. In the final section, experimental results obtained from a trial design at 4 GHz are reported. The agreement between theory and experiment is very good."
"Three stochastic models for traffic, forming a progression of decreasing simplicity, are discussed with a view to discerning in what ways the various assumptions they depend on affect the formula for blocking probability. These models are the probability linear graph (due to C. Y. Lee), the thermodynamic model, and a model based on Markov processes (both proposed by the author). Certain basic inadequacies of the models are described. Lee's model lacks a sufficiently broad assignment of probabilities to events of interest, with the result that the blocking probability is improperly defined; at the same time it bases congestion formulas on network conditions never achieved in practice. The thermodynamic model deals only with genuine system states, but makes calling rates depend unrealistically on available paths. Neither the graph model as originally proposed, nor the thermodynamic model, can take into account routing procedures. The author's Markov model is free of these drawbacks, but at this price: in nearly all practical situations in which losses occur, it leads to hitherto insurmounted combinatorial and computational difficulties. To stress and illustrate the effect that routing has on loss, the blocking probability formulas of all three models are compared at low traffic: it often turns out that when the first two models indicate that (with λ = offered traffic) loss = O(λm), λ → O, an analysis based on routing shows that in fact loss = o(λm), λ → O."
"The BF, BG, BJ, and BL miniature wire spring relays have recently been added to the family of AF, AG, AJ, AK, AL, and AM wire spring relays. The miniature series has been developed for use in central office equipment to be compatible with printed wiring board mounting and semiconductor devices. A description of the development, features, and performance of the BF miniature wire spring relay is presented along with a brief comment on the BG, BJ, and BL types. Production has been started on the miniature types and a number of codes have been issued for various projects."
"Normal modes and their propagation constants have been found for a two-dimensional lens-like medium in which the transverse refractive index varies essentially with quadratic law but has perturbing terms of higher order. In such a realistic guiding medium with aberrations, those modes are used to find the field configuration of a Gaussian beam of half width W entering off-axis. Close to the input the beam oscillates periodically with amplitude xi as if the medium were aberration-free, but slowly the beam cross-section changes shape, breaking up in several maxima, and increases size, reaching a maximum approximately equal to 2(W + xi). Afterwards the beam slowly shrinks back to the starting field configuration and the process repeats again. These results are applicable to a sequence of lenses with aberrations and become important when the lenses are closely spaced. If redirectors are to be used to compensate for lens misalignments, the corrections must be made before a large break-up of the beam occurs."
"An experimental digital television system has been constructed for evaluating digital techniques which involve storage and which may be used to reduce the bandwidth required for the transmission of television signals. The basic configuration of this system is presented. The system is composed of a television camera chain, synchronizing generator, 8-digit analog-to-digital Gray code converter, Gray to natural-binary code translator, high-speed large capacity ultrasonic delay-line memory, digital control logic, 8-digit digital-to-analog converter, television display monitors, and video-tape recording equipment. The picture format consists of 160 lines per frame sequentially scanned at 60 frames per second. The video signal is band-limited to less than 768 kHz, corresponding to a horizontal resolution of 160 samples per line. The required timing and synchronization signals for all equipment are derived from a common clock source."
"A subjective comparison of line-interlaced television pictures and noninterlaced television pictures has shown that the line-interlacing of low-resolution television pictures provides a bandwidth saving of considerably less than 2:1 when the line structure of the picture is visible. A line-interlaced television picture was subjectively compared with several noninterlaced television pictures in an effort to determine their subjective equivalency in terms of bandwidth. Several other variables — noise, spot-wobble, line-width to line-pitch ratio, different models, illumination and luminance — were also employed in the experiments. The televised pictures consisted of a head-and-shoulder view of a model pantomiming a two-way conversation. The results indicate that the line-interlacing of low-resolution television pictures provides about a 37 percent saving in terms of bandwidth at a relatively low value of high-light luminance of 40 fL (140 cd/m2) and as little as a 6 percent savings at a high-light luminance of 100 fL (340 cd/m2). When the line-width to line-pitch ratio is set at its preferred value for all pictures, a significant difference is obtained when the high-light luminance is decreased from 60 fL (200 cd/m2) to 40 fL (140 cd/m2). The effects of Gaussian noise, spot-wobble, illumination, and different types of models did not alter the subjective equivalence of line-interlaced and noninterlaced television pictures significantly. The addition of noise to a spot-wobbled picture was found to be more detrimental to the quality of the noninterlaced pictures than to the line-interlaced picture."
"The visibility of noise in a television presentation is related to the spatial-frequency and flicker-frequency components of the noise display. The visibility of sine wave interference, which generates a sine wave grating on a TV screen, demonstrates remarkable linearity by giving a good approximation to the visibility function measured with narrow bands of noise. A difference in visibility between moving and stationary gratings produces a difference between noise visibility in TV and photographs. This fact is important in evaluating the computer simulation of a system by calculations for a single TV frame. The variation of visibility with motion predicts increased visibility for additive noise in a television frame repeating system. Applications to predistortion and reconstruction filters for transmission of analog and digital TV signals are discussed."
"Using the experimental television facility described in a companion paper, frame repeating and point-by-point selective replenishment of picture elements have been accomplished in real time. On the basis of initial experiments, using the head-and-shoulder view of a person as the picture source, such as is likely to be encountered in a visual communication system, the following tentative conclusions have been reached: (i) The motion rendition with a 15 new pictures/second frame repeating system, while not flawless, is reasonably good. (ii) Selectively replenishing one-quarter of the picture points per frame gives a better continuity of motion but results in objectionable patterns. (iii) Picture quality greatly depends on the pattern of picture replenishment. Of the five replenishment patterns tested, two result in pictures which are significantly better than the other three. (iv) In informal viewings, opinion has been so divided that no preference has been established between simple 15 new pictures/second frame repeating and the more satisfying schemes for picture replenishment. (v) The frame repeating and replenishment systems produce gross impairment during zooming and panning; consequently, these systems in their present form are unlikely to be useful for broadcast television. The impairments observed in these systems are subjective and not yet predictable. This emphasizes the importance of subjective testing of systems in real time."
"Several authors have calculated the probability of error in binary differentially coherent phase-shift-keyed (DCPSK) communication systems.1,2,3,4 All of these calculations make the assumption that the sample values of the noise at the sampling instants in adjacent time slots are statistically independent random variables.∗ Because the noise is band-limited this assumption is not strictly true. The purpose of this note is to justify the assumption for most cases of interest and to point out where the assumption introduces some discrepancy."
"Spontaneous emission intensities of AI and AII in the range 2500 Å to 11,500 Å have been obtained from 2-mm diameter capillaries operated at filling pressures between 0.45 and 5.0 torr and currents up to 10 amperes. Only the AII results at 0.6 torr and 5 amperes are reported here. The spectral sensitivity of the detection system was calibrated with a standard lamp, and the resolution was ≍1 Å. Effects of optical gain and absorption were verified to be negligible for AII."
"Bulk n-GaAs oscillator diodes have been operated on a continuous basis in the LSA (Limited Space-charge Accumulation) mode1 at frequencies from 44 to 88 GHz. This is the first time a practical solid-state oscillator has operated continuously in this high-frequency range. The reason the LSA diode can produce millimeter wave power at higher frequencies than other solid-state devices such as transistors, tunnel diodes, IMPATT diodes, and Gunn diodes is because it is the first device which is not subject to the “transit-time limitation.”"
"The preparation of motion-picture standards is a cooperative activity between the British Standards Institution (BSI) and the film industry conducted by technical experts. The function of BSI is, essentially, to provide the national meeting place for different interests and viewpoints and to keep the necessary administrative machinery running smoothly. Its technical staff act as committee secretaries, responsible for the detailed drafting of documents and coordinating work within related fields."
"Standardization, as defined by the German Standards Board (DNA), is a method by which the products and procedures of any given group are coordinated through mutually accepted guidelines whose general use promotes greater proficiency in science, technology and industry. The movement to document film standards was initiated nearly 50 years ago by a few men in the motion-picture field."
"The Network Transmission Committee (NTC) and its parent committee the Video Transmission Engineering Adivisory Committee (VITEAC) were established a little over 11 years ago. Then a method for interchanging engineering information between the television networks and the operating divisions of the Bell System was needed. Bell's facilities formed a vital link in the signal transmission path from studio to home viewer. The television networks were entering a tremendous growth period. It became imperative that each of these groups understand the other's problems so that the mutually desired goal could be achieved in the face of the expanding networks and the advent of color broadcasting and its more stringent transmission requirements. This goal was, and still is, the delivery to each affiliated station the highest quality television signal consistent with the state of the art, and, of course, a signal which would meet all FCC requirements for the radiated waveform, even if the signal were subjected to no further processing by the station."
"A new high-speed motion-picture printer capable of making high-quality color prints from an original negative has been designed. A new type of film movement allows printing the film at a rate of over 50 frames/s. The design is such that, except for centrifugal acceleration, no acceleration or jerk is present in the movement. Printing speed is thus limited only by the acceleration of the film itself. A theoretical analysis shows that the maximum film acceleration is in the order of 200 Gs."
"The technical quality of film programs can reach an optimum only if the film and the television systems are properly adapted to each other. From the given requirements of a television system, desirable properties of film, with regard to contrast, transmission characteristics, resolution and graininess, can also be derived. Stable and nearly optimum performance in television can be obtained if contrast is kept smaller than with optical projection, and if closer tolerances are set to the transfer characteristics of the film. Technical specifications and measuring methods have been developed to meet these ends. Equipment has been designed to measure the density range (transfer characteristic), resolution (depth of modulation), and graininess (SNR) of films by methods comparable to television scanning. The introduction of technical specifications for television films and of uniform adjusting methods for the telecine chain led to stable conditions at the film transmitting. The standards for synchronous sound recording at shooting, editing, and at transmission are briefly discussed, and a new single film standard, 35 Commag, is recommended for prints to be transmitted."
"A series of 60 frames/s, 35mm black-and-white sound films has recently been made for use in a PICTUREPHONE® visual telephone system test and evaluation program. In such a subjective test program, a prime requisite is a source of invariant test material for use by imaging on the vidicon target of the visual telephone set. The film production program using a Mitchell high-speed camera modified for synchronous operation at 60 frames/s, included the design and fabrication of a continuous-motion film projector and the solving of several electronic problems in maintaining projection synchronism and in recording double-system sound. The film speed of 60 frames/s was chosen to have a 1:1 correspondence to the vidicon scanning rate. Sound has been recorded synchronously at 18.75 in./s, using a 150-Hz recorded pilot tone locked to the 60-Hz power line. The tape, when played back at 7.5 in./s, provided the requisite 60-Hz pilot tone to synchronize the optical soundtrack processing equipment."
"A projector for intermittently projecting 60 pictures/a from a continuously moving 35mm film onto a vidicon target has been constructed. A xenon gas-filled flashlamp, triggered by a transparent fiducial mark adjacent to the picture on the film, illuminates the picture. The short duration (2 × 10−6 s) of the flash effectively stops the motion of the picture. The projector includes a conventional optical system for reproducing photographically recorded sound. The projector is being used in a PICTUREPHONE® system test and evaluation program."
"There is a continuing shift from using “conventional” incandescent tungsten lamps toward the new “tungsten-halogen” lamps. The new lamps impose some restraints on lighting equipment designers and have some performance limitations, but they allow new directions in luminaire design and application. Tungsten-halogen lamps have the advantages of excellent maintenance of light output and color temperature during life, increased luminous efficiency and/or life, and lower cost per operating hour. The color temperature and spectral energy distribution of tungsten-halogen lamps are nearly the same as from conventional lamps, and are slightly affected by the halogen used. At least 70 different ratings and shapes of tungsten-halogen lamps are now available for television and film lighting. Some of them are in a standard glass outer bulb with a conventional lamp base, and serve as direct replacements of conventional lamps in existing lighting equipment."
"Visual contrast is largely dependent upon the sharpness of the photographic reproduction. This sharpness can be characterized to a certain extent by the modulation transfer function (MTF) of the material involved. It appears that the MTF of modern commercial black-and-white print films all have at least one common aspect: the modulation transfer at low frequencies does not reach to the 100% level. Therefore, a loss of contrast is introduced in the system by the printing material. The relative importance of the reproduction of these details in the whole of the reproduction varies in inverse ratio to the enlargement scale. The MTF of an experimental positive fine-grain film called Type 562 E has been improved so that the visual contrast is increased."
"Mitchell Camera Corp. and Todd-AO Corp. cooperated to determine the requirements of a handheld 65mm camera to meet all the unusual demands of motion-picture production. There were special problems in designing a new, all-purpose camera of professional motion-picture quality that would be versatile and at the same time meet the four major requirements of mobility, flexibility, ease of operation and reliability. The basis for establishing these requirements and their effect on the design of the camera are discussed."
"The Autumn Meeting of the Association for High-speed Photography (which includes the British National Committee for High-speed Photography) took place at Queen Mary College, London, England, September 26. Some 200 registrants included not only users of high-speed photographic techniques but also photographic students from the Regent Street Polytechnic and the Harrow Technical College."
"Potential advantages of lasers for displays are defined. There are technical problems requiring solutions before practical laser displays are feasible. The performance objectives being sought in some current research and development studies are outlined. Potential uses for laser displays include the projection on a large screen of data which can be displayed in symbolic or line-drawing form, projection for the theater, and projection for home use. A laser display can offer increased total usable light output for the instantaneous display of dynamic data. The status of existing devices and techniques for generating, intensity-modulating and deflecting high-power visible laser beams is described, and the current research and development progress in these areas is discussed."
"The printer optical system employs a dichroic beam splitter, rotating aperture wheels for frame-to-frame color balance modulation, adjustable trimmers in each color beam, and intensity controls for various exposure levels. A selected color negative frame illuminated by this system is projected to a camera on the printer, in white light operation. Exposure lamp and camera clutch controls are in a separate cable-connected unit. The printed test for each scene consists of a normal balance frame and a ring of six color balances at each of five density levels. Two higher exposure levels may be added by switch control."
"Most sprocket-driven machines are used to transport film with particular sprocket-size perforations of one-pitch dimension. The sliding flange sprocket is constructed to accommodate two sizes of perforation pitch, while still being able to use the same width of thread-up leader. By use of this sprocket, any piece of motion-picture equipment can be converted into a dual-purpose machine. The sliding flange sprockets are not limited to use on motion-picture equipment; they may be used on any type of machine that can be sprocket driven."
"The majority of laboratories handling color positive films use a filter in their printing and processing areas which has a bandwidth that overlaps areas of high emulsion sensitivity; therefore, the light intensity must be kept low. Some laboratories have tried sodium vapor lamps, with filters to absorb unwanted side radiation. These provide high-intensity monochromatic light at wavelengths where the film has low light sensitivity. Unfortunately, this type of lamp has a high initial cost and a relatively high maintenance cost, making it impractical. A special fixture using a dichroic filter and a prefocused lamp has been designed. The output of this lamp successfully matches the filtered sodium vapor lamp and provides the illumination in a more efficient method requiring lower initial cost and considerably lower maintenance expense."
"Conditions have been established for dissolving silver on unprocessed and processed films so that aqueous silver standards may be used for calibration curves. About 6.5 μg of silver on an area of 0.4 cm2 is needed for optimum measurement, and 0.1 μg of silver on the same area may be detected. The coefficient of variation of the method is 1.6%. The time taken for each analysis is about 5 min."
"An inexpensive closed-circuit color television system which has a simple construction and good color rendering properties has been developed. It is a field-sequential system which uses only one vidicon and has no mechanical rotating parts. Three color images are simultaneously projected onto the vidicon surface; the electron beam of the vidicon scans these images on the vidicon target and field-sequential signals are obtained. A triad relay lens system has been developed and adapted for color separation. A unique method is used for generating the vertical sweep waveform for the camera tube. The final resolution obtained in the experimental set was about 280 TV lines."
"Conventional control-room layout is reversed so that production personnel have their backs to the windows looking into the studio, and face the picture monitors placed in a luminous wall. Design criteria have been obtained from the points of view of physical layout, seating arrangements and lighting for a controlled working environment."
"To make the coverage of the Tokyo Olympic Games a success, the engineers of the Japan Broadcasting Corp. made the best use of the facilities of the Broadcasting Center at Yoyogi, a newly developed remote pickup technique and a large number of vans. Equipment included a separate luminance color camera, a mobile TV van used for following the marathon races, and slow-motion video-tape recording."
"The XIth Plenary Assembly of the International Radio Consultive Committee (C.C.I.R.) was held in Oslo, Norway, June and July, 1966. This report summarizes some of the decisions reached during the meeting that have a direct bearing on broadcasting organizations. The subjects considered include color television standards, video-tape recording, film standards for television use, stereophonic recording, audio magnetic recording and measurement techniques."
"Quality criteria for photographs used for the recording and storage of information are reviewed on the basis of the signal-to-noise ratio (SNR) of the image, which is defined and illustrated. Concepts discussed include the following: resolving power from the standpoint of SNR; the minimum detectable increments of both density and exposure; errors produced in the readout by film granularity; the information capacity of the emulsion; informational sensitivity; and detective quantum efficiency."
"An overall plan for color conversion of the basic television services of the Canadian Broadcasting Corp. was developed in 1959. In 1964 it was decided to equip for color the International Broadcasting Centre which CBC was then building for Expo 67. Increased public interest in color brought about a decision to start color broadcasting in Canada in September 1966. The various stages involved in converting to color and the problems encountered and solved are described."
"Split antenna systems and paralleled transmitters are used by the Australian Post Office to improve transmission reliability. Generally the two transmitters are combined and the combined output is split again within the station building for transmission by twin feeders to the antenna system. Antenna mismatch echoes returning to the power divider and dividing at the junction are re-radiated. In certain circumstances echoes may cause enhanced ghost effects in some parts of the service area. If a hybrid-type splitting transformer is used together with quadrature phasing of the twin transmitters, the bulk of the reflected energy may be absorbed in the diplexer and splitter balancing loads."
"The prescription and performance of a lens designed using the LASL Lens Design Code are reported. The lens is to be used as an objective for a high-speed camera. The design process is briefly discussed. The basic approach in the use of the LASL Lens Design Code is explained."
"A recent development of the Rank Organisation is the “Cinemation” system which automatically operates the program and theater in general while permitting the projectionist to concentrate on the finer points of the presentation. It can be operated by remote control, from any point in the auditorium, and can work automatically, by a timing mechanism. The film itself can also originate the control signals. The device is modernizing projection rooms."
"In the broad range of photographic instrumentation used at Stanford Research Institute, emphasis is placed on the proper combination of optics, lighting, photosensitive materials, processing procedures and information retrieval, rather than on camera devices alone. Instances are cited, ranging from high-speed ballistics studies to macroscopic investigations in physiological research. Photographic instruments are used to study a shock wave, a mechanical motion or a bit of living matter through a microscope. Photographic engineers, chemists, photographers, physicists, biologists and others throughout the large organization merge their efforts, providing effective research instrumentation."
"High-altitude flying observatories for astronomical observations offer advantages over ground-based observatories. The effects of atmospheric attenuation, sky background brightness, and astronomical “seeing” on astronomical observing are reduced. Weather problems are reduced or eliminated. Long-range jet aircraft have easy access to remote locations. Observation problems are, however, accentuated in the flying observatory. Instruments must be designed for aircraft safety requirements. Navigation becomes increasingly important to optimum observing conditions. Windows or viewing ports must be suited for aircraft. Window surfaces, both external and internal, require protection from dirt, oil, fogging or icing and resultant light scattering. Since boundary layer turbulence affects the light path, airfoil configurations in the viewing port area have to be considered. Vibration of the optical instrument can seriously degrade image quality, creating special vibration isolation problems. With increased resolution and exposure time the stability of the aircraft becomes insufficient, making necessary an image stabilization system. These factors are evaluated."
"The past 45 years of professional motion-picture camera design are reviewed by the authors whose personal participation spans this period which started with the hand-cranked cameras. There were cameras that punched perforations, and the motor-driven and silent-sound-stage cameras, including many wide-screen processes. Many of the failures as well as successes are discussed, including three-dimensional and wide-screen anamorphic photography. The influence that our defense and space efforts have had on the design of motion-picture cameras can be seen in the development over the past decade of high-speed cameras of both the pin-registered and rotating-prism type. Miniaturization and rugged construction requirements have influenced motion-picture camera design. Developments in optics, film manufacture and electronics are influencing the design of cameras already on the drawing boards, and work now being done in electronic beam recording promises revolutionary camera designs."
"Images are reproduced on the motion-picture screen by processes made possible by the reflection of light from the subjects on the set to the film in the camera. The lighting equipment available for attaining dramatic and artistic effects is an important factor contributing to the success of a motion-picture production. Studio set lighting equipment over the past forty years has been influenced by ever-changing factors such as film characteristics, sound and various production techniques. Current equipment and considerations for future equipment are discussed."
"The Society is grateful to the following authors for supplying translations of their abstracts: J. H. Altman—German; N. R. Grover—French, Spanish, German; W. E. Beard—French, Spanish, German. Special assistance by Pablo Weinschenk-Tabernero is also gratefully acknowledged."
"This paper describes the content of the SMPTE Color Television Subjective Reference Test Film and Slides, Issue No. 3. Much of the technical material, history and general discussion relating to Issue No. 2,5 and which applies to Issue No. 3, has been included in this paper."
"The Annual Meeting of the Technical Committee of the European Broadcasting Union convened on April 18 at the Grand Hotel Krasnapolsky, on the Dam in Amsterdam. This meeting was held to permit the Directors of Engineering of the broadcasting organizations active in the European Broadcasting Area to discuss mutual problems and to review the progress of the several Working Parties that the Technical Committee has established to carry projects forward in the interim period between formal Technical Committee meetings. In addition, the staff of the EBU Technical Center, headed by Georges Hanson, was given an opportunity to report on the activities of the Technical Center and its facilities in Brussels and Jurbise, Belgium."
"The Expo 67 Radio and Television Broadcast Centre has no transmitters, but uses those of “the world” during Canada's World Exhibition being held in Montreal in 1967. Unique in many respects, the Centre's interior is similar to that of an aquarium to permit visitors to see how a color television program is produced and to observe persons and equipments involved in production. The — pavilion, constructed by the Canadian Broadcasting Corp., will serve all the broadcasting needs of Expo 67."
"The present state of film scanning in relation to the FCC standard is noted. The advantages of the coincidence of the film's movement with the vertical scanning blank are emphasized, especially with respect to the scanning of color films. A flying-spot color scanner for 16mm film without color registration errors has been designed with a pneumatic fast-action pulldown movement that advances the film within 1.14 ms. Image and sound are ready for transmission 0.2 s after the start. A take-up device with constant torque motors that provide a constant tension on the film, even during the acceleration and deceleration phases, is explained. The system permits film reversal for monitoring. The particular advantages and properties are summarized."
"There are presently two competing storage media for television programs: magnetic tape and motion-picture film. Much literature has appeared recently concerning both the electronic and mechanical design features of magnetic-tape machines, but progress on film scanning equipment for television has not remained static at former development stages. During the past ten years, a fast-pulldown mechanism for a television film scanner without optical compensation has been developed. Its operating principle and performance are discussed."
"A television plant consisting of several integrated systems was converted from monochrome to color without disruption of on-the-air facilities. The conversion was accomplished in planned stages. A sequence of seven stages was used successfully in the conversion. Problems concerning design and equipment are discussed."
"The results of computations of the intensity ripple in a rectangular raster produced by scanning with a spot of Gaussian profile are presented. These results can be used as an aid for estimating the amplitude of residual ripple in the flat-field display of a scanning system of given spot diameter and scan spacing. They can also provide an estimate of the maximum contrast with which such a system can display a test pattern of alternating black and white stripes parallel to the scans with an individual-stripe width equal to the scan spacing."
"An 8mm telecine chain of superior technical performance and reliability has been constructed by modifying a commercial projector and coupling it to a standard vidicon camera. By suitable shutter design, and attention to the optical bench, 8mm films at either 18 or 24 frames/s can be transmitted very satisfactorily."
"A technology has been developed for transfer of magnetic sound at 150 ft/-min, making possible the production of 8mm sound prints economically on prestriped print film. An experimental printer, which can accommodate any current or proposed 8mm format with magnetic sound, has been designed and built to operate at 7.5 X projection speed. This inertia-controlled printer will print, in one pass, from a 16mm magnetic sound master two separate records simultaneously onto a double super 8 film at 150 ft/min. Amplifiers and compensating circuits have been constructed which make possible re-recording of magnetic records at this high speed."
"Rotating mirror streak camera designs now approach the theoretical limit in recording capability. Quantitative information at extremely high bit rates can be obtained by streak cameras which sacrifice frame dimension in the direction of scan of the swept beam or image to eliminate time necessary for frame separation. In practice, this amounts to the image of occurrences in a very narrow frame or slit continuously scanning a stationary film, or a similar image continuously scanned by a moving film. The development to the present state of the art has encompassed drums and roll film cameras as film carriers and beam deflection by electromagnetic and mechanical means. A comparison is provided by the evolution and characteristics of these devices."
"Reflex cameras have been used more and more for professional motion-picture photography, and, with the advent of zoom lenses that approach fixed focal-length lenses in resolution capability, the need for reflex viewing has become imperative. To make the BNC most useful for soundstage work it has been redesigned to permit reflex viewing. The rotating mirror principle is used to prevent any loss of the light impinging on the film. A number of serious mechanical and optical problems have been solved to ensure retention of the desirable features. Performance characteristics of the BNCR (reflex BNC) and the BNC are compared and new features of the BNC are discussed."
"Of the few American universities now offering graduate degree programs in the areas of film history, criticism and theory, one of the oldest is the program at the University of Iowa, where graduate studies in the field of film have been pursued for the last fifty years. Today's program of graduate studies provides for work in both the theory and practice of film and is supported by an extensive library collection of motion-picture research materials."
"On September 5, 1964, the following appeared in the Montreal Gazette: “Noise and junk are perhaps the most aggravating aspects of the New York World's Fair. Both are everywhere. Carny barkers, recorded music, horns, helicopters, spiels-on-tape, even the magnified grunts of a gorilla—they come with the regularity of Chinese torture. There is only one word to describe it all—shattering.”"
"Successful time-lapse cinematography can be accomplished by a geared-down continuous drive or by using an intervalometer with a stop-motion motor, rotary solenoid or internal spring motor with external escapement. Typical electronic intervalometer circuits and their limitations are compared with the motor-driven intervalometer for both exposure and timing. Requirements for photographic illumination, illumination to maintain the health of a plant over long periods, of maintaining pictorial composition during an extended “take,” exposure and interval selection and the desirability of multiple camera operation are discussed. Experience in time-lapse photography at Moody Institute of Science during the past 20 years and the type of equipment employed are described."
"There are various forms and modes in which plastics play an important function in motion-picture production. Reasons making it necessary and practical to confine the fabrication of stage set structural units and props to relatively simple processes are explained. The basic differences in the use, purpose and processing of plastic materials between the general plastics industry and a motion-picture studio are treated in some detail, with illustrations. Polymeric materials are not only useful by themselves in the fabrication of stage set units, props and effects items but they also play an equally important part when formulated into functional and decorative coatings, such as paints, lacquers and adhesives. Plastics have a practically unlimited range of studio production applications. Polymeric materials can now be tailored to fit specific desired application or engineering requirements."
"Two proposed areas in the design of optics for use in space are discussed; solarization due to ultraviolet and its effect on optical parameters and athermalization of glass to make optical parameters independent of temperature gradients. Consideration is given to color balance, the refractive index shift and partial dispersion shift resulting from solarization. Preliminary experiments and plans for future work to relieve restrictions on the availability of material are presented."
"At the close of World War II, attainable levels of resolution in aerial photography were of the order of 20 lines/mm. This level has been increased to better than 100 lines/mm, providing a ground resolution of 1 ft for an 18-in. focal-length camera operating at an altitude of 40,000 ft. This improvement permits better ground resolution, smaller, lighter cameras and higher operating altitudes. Four factors contributing to this growth are better films, improvements in lenses, more sophisticated camera systems and improvements in methods of analysis."
"The definition of an ideal stereophonic system is given and a theoretical example of such a system is presented; this system restores exactly, at all the points of the secondary field, the physical structure of the primary field according to all the acoustic parameters. A multichannel system is usually considered as a practical compromise. The definition of a real stereophonic system is given; such a systems's basic requirement is the reconstruction of localization effect, which is best obtained in the primary free field. Since the sound oscillations are longitudinal, the movements of air particles are rectilinear in the direction from each actual sound source to each point of the primary field. The conditions of restoration of rectilinearity of oscillations of air particles in the secondary field are considered and the basic equation of stereophony is deduced. It has been proved that in a general case the multichannel system cannot restore, in the secondary field, the rectilinear oscillations of air particles but transforms them into elliptical ones. It has also been proved that the principal cause of the physical character which makes it impossible to obtain the undistorted localization effect in a general case in all points of the secondary field, is an insufficient velocity of sound in the air. Recommendations are given, taking into consideration the use of the established regularities in such a way as to create a practical possibility of obtaining an excellent and good stereophonic effect in the whole area of the theater."
"Particle accumulation in clean room atmospheres can be prevented by laminar/flow clean air handling systems which make it possible to circulate much larger quantities of clean air through working chambers (clean rooms) than was previously possible. Existing darkrooms or other areas can be converted into clean rooms by applying laminar/flow equipment in modular form."
"One of the most important phases in motion pictures is that of combining the many soundtracks (e.g., dialogue, sound effects, music) into one final soundtrack, synchronized with the action on the film. Interlock motors are used to accomplish this. Two types of synchronous motors (hysteresis and salient pole) for providing the power are also described."
"A new approach to film and television production is exemplified in the construction of Pinewood Studios in Great Britain. The aim was to amalgamate the best of feature production techniques and equipment with the best of television production. Problems of lighting, construction of dual-purpose stages, flooring, ventilation, and others are discussed and their solutions set forth."
"A simple method for obtaining quantitative measurements of the dynamic response of a television chain to spatially distributed light input signals is described. The major improvement over existing techniques is in the method of scanning the target and the ability to make rapid quantitative measurements of the system's response to almost any spatially distributed input light signal. The measurement of a television system's response to spatially distributed light input signals such as sine waves, square waves, step or impulse signals is described and/or illustrated. Adaptation of this technique for measuring the line-profile and interlace factor of a picture tube is also described. The apparatus required for these measurements is available in most well-equipped television laboratories and the measurement procedure is not unfamiliar to television engineers."
"A vestigial sideband system of TV transmission has inherent phase and quadrature distortion. Phase distortion is caused by nonlinearity of the phase vs. frequency characteristic of the system; quadrature distortion is caused by the transmission of sidebands which are not symmetrical about the carrier. The nonlinearity of the phase characteristic is particularly troublesome at frequencies near the picture carrier where most of the energy is concentrated. At present, techniques exist for equalizing for phase distortion or its derivative envelope delay distortion at video frequencies, but these are only partially effective because there is quadrature distortion still present. If it were possible to recreate the missing sidebands from the existing sidebands, a double sideband signal would be presented to the detector and quadrature distortion would be eliminated. Also, by adding existing and regenerated signals in a way such that their respective picture carriers are not in phase, a very substantial improvement in the linearity of the phase vs. frequency of the overall system, including the transmitter if desired, can be effected, and waveform distortions are practically eliminated. A brief mathematical analysis of the distortions in the vestigial sideband system and a description of the apparatus are given, with photographs to show the possible results."
"In order to meet the anticipated demands for higher education in New York State, television has been brought into greater use as an efficient communications medium for the dissemination of learning on a statewide basis. A threefold program has been established: to provide closed-circuit facilities on campus at 14 major units, to interconnect five educational television broadcast stations in a network having centralized control at the state capitol and to interface the university facilities with the network in a totally integrated system. Television systems planning concepts are described, including studio equipment complements, video-tape recorders, standards, interconnection between campus buildings, color considerations and statewide network facilities."
"An automated education system has been designed which enables each student in the class to enjoy individualized (tutored) instruction through the use of a computer. The system features central curriculum control with decentralized automatic operation. A simple large-scale centralized processor services communications switching processors at each of four schools. These handle a total of 32 student terminals containing TV displays and keyboards. When teachers request the central complex to provide certain curricula for specific students, such lessons are automatically transmitted to the individual school; when the student arrives at the terminal, he uses the keyboard to enter the code number specifically assigned to him. The processor recognizes the information and displays the lesson segments. As the student responds, program control determines the correctness of his response, records the operation and, if desired, provides reinforcing or correcting information. The processor maintains a record of the student's progress, permitting proper sequencing of material for each student for instructions on the following days."
"In September 1965, the first programs of the Delaware Educational Television Network were telecast from a makeshift facility located in three surplus trailers on the Delaware State College campus. While making use of such quality television effects as are sought nationwide, the Delaware ETV production efforts will concentrate on production of quality programs to fill specific local educational needs. The Bell System constructed the largest telephone company ETV facility in the U.S. to carry signals from the Resources Center in Dover to the 170 schools throughout the state. Schools were completely equipped with Master Antenna Television (MATV) systems making the signals available in every classroom. The system carries programs selected and scheduled to meet specific instructional goals. New approaches to production of instructional television programs, an operational approach with future automation in mind and a desire for involvement in the total picture of educational communications characterize the direction of this new facility."
"A group of six European manufacturers of substandard motion-picture equipment has engaged in a cooperative program for the development of a new cartridge for audio-visual purposes. The single-reel cartridge is designed for easy loading, and makes possible fast forward and rapid rewind of the film. It can be made to accommodate 50-, 200- or 400-ft films."
"A high-efficiency contact printer, which takes advantage of the economic potential of prestriped color print film, has been designed. In its present form as a 35mm/super 8 printer, it can, in a single pass, print four identical rows of pictures and the corresponding four identical magnetic soundtracks. The pictures are contact-printed from a 35mm/super 8 internegative and the sound records are reduction-transferred from a 16mm magnetic sound master. Continuous monitoring of the four magnetic soundtracks increases printer reliability. Operation is at 200 linear ft/min, yielding 800 ft/min of super 8 sound prints. This concept is applicable to other prestriped motion-picture formats."
"Little has been done in the past 35 years to improve the conventional transport devices for film-processing machines; these devices are the sprocket drive and the various types of tendency drives, including electric clutch, felt disc clutch and bottom-roller drives. Recently, a new method for transporting film — Turbine Fluid Drive — has been used to equip a negative processing machine. These drive units are incomplex and comparatively small: 4 in. in diameter and 5 in. long. The drive functions with a fluid action. The ratio between film being fed into the machine vs. the constant 12% to 16% overdrive of the driven roller results in a progressive, smooth pull. Film is processed at speeds in excess of 300 ft/min, and the turbine unit requires no replacement of parts and little or no maintenance."
"At the request of a theater management company, an analysis was made for a corrected image on a curved screen, and recommendations were given. The screen was of standard material and cylindrically curved but at a radius shorter than the projection distance. The dimensions, projected image areas and screen brightness factors present in this operating theater are described. Photographs were taken of the projected image on the screen; brightness readings were taken at nine major points within the seating area for comparison purposes. The projected image area, possible “cropping” and the presence of apparent distortion, the projection of a curved image and its correct location, including the method for determining its location, are discussed. Cross-lighting problems related to a curved screen are also considered."
"Photographic development, from the technical side, is a unique process of very powerful intensification of the results of the primary action of radiant energy on photographic layers. An approximate computation1 shows that the factor of this increase is of the order of 1010. Consequently, if development were not known, exposure or illumination during photography would have to be increased billions of times in comparison with present usage and under such conditions, clearly, photography and cinematography with their present brilliant achievements would be impracticable."
"An analysis of measurements made over 14½ hours of television programs is presented to show the distribution of average picture levels as a percentage of total time. It has been found that for 90% of the time the average picture level is between 20 and 70% and that the mean value of the distribution is close to 40%."
"The photographic system which produced the photographs of the lunar surface is a complex one. Inherent in its design is provision for dual lens photography, film processing, conversion of the film images into video signals for relay through the spacecraft transmitter and reconstitution of the photographic image on earth after receipt of signals by the orbital tracking stations. The prime objective of the Lunar Orbiter Mission is to secure topographic data of the lunar surface to enable selection and confirmation of suitable Apollo landing sites. In addition to the stringent performance objectives, the equipment design was strongly influenced by a number of constraints: e.g., size, weight, power consumption, pressure environment, the ambient thermal environment and the limitation on system control and instrumentation. Fundamental to the photographic system design was the selection of a suitable film processing chemistry and lenses. These are all reviewed in detail. The performance photographic requirements for the ground equipment are also briefly discussed."
"Lunar Orbiter's photographic requirements include both wide- and narrow-angle coverage. A dual camera system using an 80mm Schneider-Xenotar lens and a high-quality 24-in. Pacific Optical Co. Paxoramic lens was selected to fulfill these requirements. The formats were on a single strand of 70mm film with minimum interframe spacing. The velocity-height (V/H sensor) optical detector, which monitors the lunar terrain prior to and during photography, was designed and packaged to provide image motion compensation from its output drive to both camera platens. Of significance to camera performance is the vacuum system which actuates the platen clamp mechanisms as well as provides a differential pressure to flatten the film on the platens. Because of the delicate interrelations existing in a minimum-weight, high-acuity system, solutions to a number of problems were more logically and economically obtained after hardware was available and controlled tests of the complete assembly were possible. Some of the techniques developed are reviewed along with some highlights of system performance. The Lunar Orbiter cameras constitute a significant departure from classical design and fabrication concepts, and their performance has equalled or exceeded prediction."
"High-quality processing and drying of photosensitive film, completely unattended in deep space and in a zero gravity environment, present a number of unique problems. The KODAK BIMAT Transfer Film Processing System was selected as the best method for meeting the processing needs of Lunar Orbiter. This system is basically a diffusion transfer process in which the processing chemicals, including moisture, are carried in a thin hydrophilic layer which is coated on an ESTAR Film Base support. This layer is brought into intimate contact with the exposed photosensitive film, at which time processing takes place. In order to maintain a consistently high level of processing quality, the environmental control system for the entire Photo System had to be carefully designed. The concept and operational details of this processor-dryer system arc described."
"The photographic system of the Lunar Orbiter is required to convert the developed lunar scene images into equivalent time-varying video signals. The conversion must be such that the lunar images can be faithfully reconstructed on earth from the video signals with a minimum loss of information (resolution). The design effort of the Readout portion of the Photo System was directed toward meeting these requirements within the limitations imposed on size, weight, power consumption and heat dissipation. The major elements of the Readout Subsystem are briefly described, together with a discussion of special features such as video pre-emphasis, synchronizing techniques, and commandable gain and focus adjustments. Concept and design problem areas and their solutions are described. In addition, areas where potential improvements can be realized are discussed."
"Special ground reconstruction and photo-reassembly apparatus used at the NASA tracking stations in Goldstone, Madrid and Woomera convert video signals received from the Lunar Orbiter spacecraft into photographic images on continuous rolls of 35mm film which, after processing, are used for scientific analysis. The system performance and field use requirements imposed on the apparatus are described, the specific design needs which derived from the requirements are listed and the classes of equipment chosen to fill these needs are discussed. The development, testing and operational use of the ground reconstruction electronics, recording camera, photographic film processor, quality evaluation viewer and reassembly printer are described, and procedures for handling of large quantities of photographic data through a photo processing center are outlined. The assembly printer located at the processing center is also discussed, and a brief resume of the types of photographic copies that are produced from the original film as well as samples of final photographic product from Lunar Orbiter II are included."
"When Surveyor I soft landed on the moon it began within an hour to transmit the first of over 11,000 TV pictures of the moon. The camera's design requirements were set by a wide range of temperatures, the need to maneuver the camera to view any area, the spacecraft's power supply and the need for verification from the spacecraft to confirm to the operator that the camera had received and executed each command. The camera has a complex variable focal length lens complete with focus adjustments and a commandable iris. The camera is positioned vertically on the spacecraft and the lens looks directly into the rotating-mirror assembly. A focal plane shutter exposes a 1-in. hybrid vidicon tube for 150 ms prior to the frame readout. Problems encountered are described and illustrations show the variety of conditions under which the camera performed."
"The application of television to the space program has presented new problems to designers of tubes, circuitry and components. The vidicon has become an important device for translating spatial information into a time-varying signal which can be transmitted to distant receivers for reassembly into detailed pictures, or used immediately for guidance systems. Of prime importance to the systems designer are such requirements as light weight, compact size and low power which characterize the present generation of tubes. The characteristics of various vidicons and their use in present and future space programs are discussed."
"The video system described simplifies the operational controls for studio program switching by indiscriminately accepting input signals which may or may not be synchronous with the local synchronizing pulses. Changes in signal system paths and video processing required by different forms of input signals are made automatically during a few picture lines, thus eliminating a manual control operation function and possible undesirable interruption of the video and synchronizing signals. Furthermore, the number of input circuits is reduced by means of flexible subswitching among a number of off-premise sources and all available inplant support facilities."
"Signal sources such as Plumbicon live cameras, 4-channel vidicon film cameras and high-band video-tape machines provide very high quality inputs to today's color television broadcasting studios. To satisfy the needs of TV program procedures, the studio facilities have been made extremely complex. For example, studios in the CBS Broadcast Center in New York contain three cascaded video-fader and/or special effects generator units to satisfy unusual production situations. Depending on the particular path through the studio, a video signal will normally pass through at least seven or as many as fifteen different amplifiers. Also the studio must present the same electrical length to the color subcarrier regardless of the path taken by the signal. The above factors made it difficult to achieve the high quality color studio performance which is necessary to avoid deterioration of the input signals. One of the most serious problems has been a dip or saddle in the amplitude-frequency response between 1 and 4.2 MHz; another has been a midfrequency (15.7 kHz) smear. After discussion of the solutions to these problems, there are described special techniques developed to make amplitude-frequency response measurements to better than 0.05 dB and to detect midfrequency smears in the order of 1 mV peak-to-peak amplitude."
"Television film cameras which utilize vidicon pickup tubes have, for many years, included provisions for controling camera sensitivity by means of adjustable target voltages. Attempts have been made to set up a closed-loop, automatic-control system by measuring the output video level and feeding back to the vidicon target a control signal which is developed from slight deviations from the desired output level. Performance of these simple systems has been less than satisfactory for several reasons. These problems are reviewed and a solution presented which is proving to be much more acceptable in current broadcast service."
"The work exploring possible ways to splice Cronar to Cronar using conventional splicing techniques is described. Cronar polyethylene terephthalate film support is chemically inert, presenting major obstacles to conventional splicing. Polyur-ethane mixed with hexafluoroisopropanol and methylene chloride is one typical composition of the new splicing cement, which can be used with standard liquid cement splicing techniques. Satisfactory splices were achieved and, while somewhat slow in attaining full strength, they remained strong and pliable over a range of humidity and temperature conditions. Practical tests made for this bond also are described."
"As the speed of processing machines is increased, the problem of carry-over of solution from stage to stage becomes more severe. Air blow-backs or squeegees can be used to reduce the carry-over but they have several disadvantages: continuing cost of air, noise, danger of scratching film, and contamination from airborne chemicals blown off the film. A wringer-sling squeegee, operated by movement of the film itself, eliminates some of the problems of air squeegees and offers advantages for many applications. In operation, the film passes between two rollers. One flangeless roller wrings liquid from the surface of the film and displaces it to the large flanges of the other roller, which slings it away by centrifugal force. The sling roller has a small-diameter hub so that it rotates at relatively high speed. Collection cups enclose the flanges of the sling roller. The efficiency of the device increases with film-transport speed."
"An animal table actuated by a high precision multiple hydraulic servo mechanism, which eliminates all rack-and-pinion movements, was built for field searching and focusing under the microscope. Thus, the specimen carrier serves as its own mechanical stage with the laboratory animal, accessory supports and optional remote control micromanipulators. The machine can move in 0.3-μm increments or by continuous feed. Vibration damping elements isolate the specimen and microscope from the camera and environment."
"A prototype optical bench with axial alignments (for epicondenser reflected light microscopy at a depth within intact living tissues) with servo electronic mechanisms, adequate for modeling and for freeze flash color cinemicroscopy of the microcirculation of the lung has been constructed and operates at up to 400 frames/s. The pulmonary arteriolar and capillary blood flow is observed in open chest, still-lung rabbit preparation. Experimental “meconium embolism” serves as a control for “fibrination.” These simulate, respectively, microcirculatory disorders that occur spontaneously during two opposite, acutely acquired accidents of late human pregnancy: microembolism of debris during amniotic embolism and disseminated coagulation during abruptio placentae."
"The Society is grateful to the following authors for supplying translations of their abstracts: B. L. Elle, C. S. Heinmiller, P. J. Fromme and A. E. Neumer—French, Spanish, German; H. K. Heen, W. C. Wilson, J. Widmer, D. J. Stone, Jr., and E. E. Boase—French, Spanish, German; J. J. Meyers, D. S. Endter and R. F. Limoges—French, Spanish, German; A. Jensen, R. J. Whitcomb, R. V. Reinke and D. E. Carson—French, Spanish, German; R. A. Grammer, Jr., J. F. Stets, B. W. Buttner and H. C. Filbert—French, Spanish, German; R. E. Hoffman—French, Spanish, German; K. Blair Benson—French, Spanish, German; Frank Davidoff—French, Spanish, German; Robert R. Brooks—French, Spanish, German; A. Wasy D'Cruz—French, Spanish, German; Edward H. Deane and Richard L. McNeary—French, Spanish, German; Nydia L. Meyers and Charles L. Schneider—French, Spanish, German; Charles L. Schneider, Gracent Eidt and Douglas N. Schneider—French, Spanish, German. Special assistance by Pablo Weinschenk—Tabernero is also gratefully acknowledged."
"Society President G. Carleton Hunt has announced that the Board of Governors approved at its June 26, 1967, meeting that an Annual Meeting be called for Monday, September 18, 1967. This Annual Meeting will be held in the Edgewater Beach Hotel, Chicago, Ill., and will be held in conjunction with the 102nd Semiannual Technical Conference immediately following the Get-Together Luncheon."
"Although a high proportion of colour television programmes includes films made specially for television presentation, the technical characteristics of the prints shown still tend to be suited more to optical projection than they are to the newer medium. The long experience of the motion-picture industry enables it to produce prints which are wholly acceptable to cinema audiences from the viewpoints of contrast, detail and colour fidelity but broadcasting organisations are finding that their requirements are not identical with those of the cinema theatre. Technical characteristics which are desirable for the cinema do not necessarily suffice for colour television. There are many problems to be dealt with before colour film and colour television can successfully be married, and this paper describes some of the difficulties encountered."
"An optical pickup that provides pitch, roll and yaw motions through the use of integral servo-driven elements to provide a fixed point of perspective is described. The optical pickup may be considered to be a complex form of TV camera lens. Its application to the simulation problem is compared with that of other optical devices. Trade-offs in performance of an idealized optical system as well as specific pickups are shown to be basically limited by the choice of model scale. The often conflicting performance requirements for such an instrument involve such factors as distortion vs. illumination uniformity, depth of field vs. image illumination, depth of field vs. model scale and the required minimum approach distance, and optical resolution vs. angular field."
"Atomic absorption spectrophotometry is based on the ability of atoms to absorb radiation in narrow wavelength bands specific for each element. It is achieved by introducing a solution of the element into a controlled flame and passing radiant energy through this flame into a suitable detection and readout system. A practical application of atomic absorption is in the analysis for silver in fixing solutions. The current method involved electrodeposition of the metal, redissolving it in acid and final determination of the silver by a titrametric procedure. This analysis done with atomic absorption involves merely setting the instrument with standard solutions of known concentration, diluting the sample so that its concentration falls within these limits and comparing it on the instrument to the standards. This measurement allows the concentration of silver in the original solution to be easily calculated. Elapsed time for the analysis has been reduced from one-and-one half hours to approximately ten minutes."
"The evolution of motion-picture presentation in the Rank Theatre Division over the past ten years is surveyed, including a description of the standards observed at the present time, the current operational procedure, specifications of equipment used, the trends of motion-picture theater design, including brief references to recently completed theaters, the new Cinematic and Technitrol systems of theater operational automation and the experimental work being carried out for future progress."
"The Wheatstone Bridge principle can be effectively incorporated in the photo-electrically-actuated exposure controls of 8mm motion-picture cameras as well as in the circuitry of full-range CdS exposure meters. The basic electrical principles of photoelectric brightness measurement are surveyed. Methods of using a Wheat-stone Bridge to measure electrical resistance as a function of subject brightness are explored in terms of various balance indicators. The exact manner in which the Wheatstone Bridge principle has been applied to the circuitry and structure of the Ikophot T exposure meter is described."
"The Technicolor Triple-Rank super 8 film format for use in the mass production of commercial super 8 prints by the Technicolor imbibition process is described. The use of this format results in the need for a very minimum amount of special processing equipment. Much of the processing can be done on existing 35mm equipment."
"Fujicolor Positive Film Type 8818 (35mm) is used for making release prints from color-masked negatives such as Fujicolor Negative Film and Eastman Kodak Color Negative Film. It is provided with a high modulation transfer function, fine grain and excellent color saturation for yielding release prints with improved image sharpness and color rendition. The film consists of three emulsion layers coated on triacetate safety base. A protective layer is coated over the emulsion to prevent scratch and abrasion during processing. The back of the film base is coated with an antihalation black resin, which is removed during processing. This film can be processed at relatively high temperatures. Fujicolor Positive Film Type 8828 (16mm and 16/8mm), which has similar photographic properties, is also discussed."
"An increasing number of important events are being recorded on 16mm color camera films. Long-time preservation of these records will be more certain if silver separation masters are prepared. Methods are described for preparing silver protection masters from 16mm color-reversal original films."
"Today's production costs and the shortages of animation artists have made it almost impossible to produce fully-animated cartoon films. While some methods did develop the outline drawings of the character by various chemical or optical means, all of the early methods required the making of large, transparent “cels” for each frame, which had to be hand-colored and retouched before being re-photographed by conventional animation techniques. The new system produces not only the most complex character outline drawings but also the flat, cartoon-style coloring directly onto 35mm film by means of simple laboratory printing and processing. An automatic traveling matte is used to combine these images with the backgrounds. Production procedures parallel those of normal live-action filming. The principles involved for each production and laboratory step are described and illustrated."
"More efficient methods are being used for sound transfer in the production of 8mm magnetic prints. From single 8mm recording using commercial magnetic projectors at sound speed, the operation has changed to the use of several single 8mm recorders running together. Equipment was developed for the simultaneous transfer of four tracks on 35mm striped color print film, perforated 5R-1500. When the four prints are exposed on a reduction printer with the four apertures staggered, the problem of designing a professional recorder becomes more complex. The design was intended not only to solve the problem of recording four staggered-sync soundtracks simultaneously, but to eliminate equipment, production and quality problems of the earlier systems. A rerecording system which overcomes these problems is described. In addition to the decreased film handling and increased production output, the system provides improved sound quality."
"The number of color receivers was greatly increased in Japan in 1966. The Tokyo Broadcasting System had predicted the necessity for a thorough redesign of facilities and established the detailed design targets by the end of 1962. The overall transmission characteristics were first set up by using eight parameters which affect the quality of the pictures received. These overall characteristics are divided into program production facilities, local transmitter and intercity microwave linkages. The program production facilities are divided into seven blocks and these are further divided into each individual unit of equipment to complete the entire system design targets. These design targets have proved very helpful for the further development of high-standard equipments. The methods of establishing the design targets are described."
"A high-speed camera may be viewed as a communication system comprising many parallel channels. The rate at which information can be recorded in each channel is given by Shannon's equation, where the bandwidth of the camera is related to its shutter speed, and the signal-to-noise ratio is determined by either film granularity or quantum noise. A few ultra-high-speed electronic cameras are examined and compared from the point of view of information theory. No single figure of merit can be used, the choice of camera parameters depending upon the specific application."
"The Automatic Television Tracking System tracks a moving target while presenting it in the familiar television format. It is capable of tracking positively or negatively contrasting objects, accommodates a wide range of target sizes and shapes, and provides a linear output characteristic (volts per degree of displacement) over a large visual field. Tracking is related to either the visible geometric centroid or a leading edge of the target."
"Rear-projection screens are known to give poorer preformance in rendering large luminance differences in images than do reflecting screens. This seems to be due primarily to internal reflections in the rear-projection screens. This paper analyzes the effect of internal reflection on the rendition of luminance differences and also the improvement obtainable when an absorbing screen base is used. Some experimental results are presented."
"A system has been designed for the optical recording of sound using the light from a silicon carbide electroluminescent diode and ordinary films such as Plus X Reversal or Kodachrome II A with no special processing. The soundtrack was dye or silver track according to the use of color or black-and-white film. Standard projectors with ordinary exciter lamps, slit and detector systems were used. During recording, the diode was held in close proximity to the film and required no intervening optics. Diode operating currents and voltages were modest. Frequency response of 100 to 6000 Hz has been obtained with equalization on 16mm film; this was primarily limited by diode dimensions. The diode itself imposes a limit of 50 kHz. The light is yellow and is produced by a forward biased p-n junction which was about 1 by 2 mm for 16mm recording. The recording is variable density. The operating point for black-and-white film is at 10% transmission and at 70% transmission for color film at 9000 Å. Signal-to-noise ratio is about 30 to 40 dB for black-and-white film and about 20 dB for color film. Noise is mostly film noise."
"Gevachrome Print Film, T. 9.02, is a color reversal film primarily intended to make prints from professional color reversal originals. The film permits the printing of a soundtrack from a negative soundtrack as well as from a positive. Film structure, sensitometric characteristics and printing behavior are discussed and processing formulas and procedure are given."
"The Alignment of television cameras requires, in addition to electrical test signals, optical test patterns to permit evaluation of the overall system performance and to facilitate adjustment of the optical and electron-optical components. Test patterns have been available from a variety of sources in a variety of forms. The most widely used have been those supplied by the Electronics Industries Association; however, they are available from EIA only as 18 by 24-in. opaques and thus have not fulfilled the need for transparencies for rear-illuminated light boxes used with live cameras, or for telecine projection equipment. In addition, recent refinements in equipment design and measurement techniques have created a need for new and different types of test patterns manufactured to more stringent tolerances."
"A Color Test Signal having luminance and chrominance components which are sine-squared pulses with long half-amplitude duration* has been proposed in the past and has given rise, lately, to considerable interest.1-8 Since it can be taken as a complete color signal, having a luminance component and a chrominance subcarrier with carrier-suppressed amplitude modulation, and in view of the success of the sine-squared pulse testing techniques for monochrome television, the color test signal in question would appear quite attractive. With its recent correlation to subjective impairments8 and introduction of a K-rating factor, the attractiveness of this test signal is bound to increase considerably."
"Thermography is a form of radiography which enables the portrayal of body-surface temperatures photographically, either in black-and-white or in color. These thermograms or thermomaps are actually topographic reproductions of the infrared radiation which is spontaneously and continuously emitted by human skin in the spectral range between 3 and 20 μm. Black-and-white thermograms record changes over localized metabolic, physiologic, inflammatory or malignant activity in and below the skin surface in halftones of gray. Bright tones correspond with greater emission of heat, and dark tones indicate cool spots. The physician's familiarity with thermographic patterns and with their correct interpretation is proving to be significant to the diagnosis and treatment of many ills. — Various types of thermographs are now in use and others are in the process of development. Because the discipline is new—less than a decade old—it is not yet perfect, but engineering compromises that exist in present equipment are bound to improve with time. The investigation of the infrared spectrum as a corollary of the missile and space programs cannot help but eventuate in more precise, sophisticated, and less expensive devices."
"Color television has had limited endoscopic applications because of high costs, bulky equipment, inadequate lighting and the extra personnel for operating and maintaining the apparatus. With the advent of simpler color television cameras, tape recorders and adequate light sources, a wide variety of medical applications has become possible. The equipment described has been used in observation cystoscopy performed on six patients. In general, clear, sharp, relatively true color pictures could be reproduced at will. Though better pictures were obtained when the camera and endoscope were articulate, for patient safety most transmission was performed with only a camera held firmly against the instrument. This experience in the field of urology can be applied to any other endoscopic specialty."
"A special 35mm motion-picture camera now being used routinely for cardiac angiography has a nonstandard format permitting the phosphor image of the intensifier to be recorded as a 25-mm circle. The increase in picture size has improved definition, particularly with high-speed films (Cineflure) with which coarse grain structure has detracted from quality. The shutter has a 180° open phase when used with triggered x-ray emission, a design which better records movement because the x-ray exposure may now be twice as long as previously. No increase in movement blur has been detected in individual frames by increasing pulse widths to 10 ms at a rate of 50 frames (56. 25 in.)/s. The film is advanced six sprocket holes at a time instead of the standard four; therefore it was necessary to design and build a prism-type editor for diagnosis. This apparatus projects a 9-in. picture onto the screen. An optical step-printer head has been designed for the reduction of the nonstandard 35mm pictures onto standard 16mm film. Some detail is necessarily lost in this reduction process, but since the 16mm printing stock has a very high resolving power, this detail loss is difficult to detect. Reduction printing onto 16mm film has also meant that the gradation of the original negative can be controlled and if necessary varied to suit the particular subject being reproduced."
"There has been a great deal of misunderstanding as to what lighting could or could not be used in surgery, but many of the restrictions of the past are no longer necessary. The issue has been further confused by the ideas and techniques of individual photographers which sometimes has little if any real relationship to the problem at hand. Surgical photography, like all other photography, requires compromise with realistic application and choice of equipment. The requirements for general surgical lighting are reviewed, with the hope of stimulating manufacturers to design equipment specifically for the purposes of this growing field."
"Most early medical motion-picture footage was photographed at a camera speed of 16 frames/s. Today, most of this film is irreplaceable from an historical aspect or because of the rarity of the subject matter. However, if such archival material is integrated directly into modern productions designed to be projected at sound-speed, the rate of motion in the old scenes is seriously distorted — often with an undesirable comic effect. Conversion is obtained by projecting 16-frames/s footage onto a translucent screen at 18 frames/s. This is rephotographed with a 16mm motion-picture camera with a sync motor at a normal rate of 24 frames/s. To eliminate flicker the projection equipment used must have a flicker rate above that which can be perceived by the eye and the camera. The flicker rate on the equipment used in the conversion technique is approximately 54 flickers/s. A series of tests easily determines the proper shutter openings on the camera itself."
"Many producers and directors prefer to edit film rather than video tape because of their familiarity with the flexibility and precision of film editing. Yet they want the production and technical advantages of video tape. A system has now been developed which utilizes film editing techniques in the production of video-tape commercials. A new editing device, the VTC Film-Tape Translator, has been developed to facilitate the accumulation and transfer of editing data from a kinescope recording, which is used as a film editing master, to an electronically assembled video-tape end product. The Translator employs five interlocked 16mm film transports to translate film scene location data to corresponding video-tape scene location data. A-B rolls are edited and mixed; or Edicomp, a programed electronic editor, is used to transfer the original tape picture and sound to an edited second-generation copy. The system is precise, yet simple in operation, makes film editing techniques available, lowers editing costs, and permits more convenient working hours."
"With Plumbicon color TV cameras and Ampex VR 2000 high-band video-tape machines, taped commercials can be made in the producer's studios. Audio and video signals are transmitted over permanent telephone lines. Two hours before taping, a rack containing the camera control unit and a rack containing sync generator, vectorscope and a switcher are moved into the production studio. With the TV camera mounted on a Worell head, and the focus and zoom controls mounted at the side of the TV camera, the commercial is shot the same way it would be shot on film. After shooting, selected takes are transferred from tape to 16mm direct positive film; a special cue track is transferred to the videotape cue track and to the audio track of the 16mm film; the sync portions of the takes are transferred to 35mm magnetic-striped film. The film editor cuts the commercial together as he would cut together a film commercial. After approval of the rough cut film, it is then transferred back to video tape and the commercial is completed on video tape through the use of electronic editing and video mixing. This process corresponds to negative matching in film."
"A theoretical analysis of light paths in a theater is given on the assumed basis that the screen is a perfect mirror. Analysis is made on curved screens of various radii to review the returned light paths. The aspects of projection angle, seating geometry and screen shape are discussed. Conclusions based on this theoretical approach are drawn, based on usual distribution patterns on screen materials. The “prime seat” theory is advanced and typical zones of seating around the prime seat are considered."
"A report of the technical decisions reached during the sixth meeting of ISO/TC 36 held in conjunction with the Seventh General Assembly of the International Organization for Standardization held June 14–28 in Moscow, USSR. The work of the Technical Committee and its history and organization are briefly described and current proposals and recommendations are listed."
"A great deal has been written about the beginnings of motion pictures; their origins as scientific toys and their development from peep-show machines on seaside piers and fairgrounds to the plushy cinemas of today (Fig. 1). I do not propose to reopen the heated discussions on the relative contributions made by Eastman, Edison, Friese-Green, Lumière, Paul or others (mentioned here in alphabetical order) to the invention of kinematography. Let us deal instead with some of the subsequent developments, including the continuous improvements in the fittings and fixtures of the “sheds” where the motion-picture pioneers in Britain made their films—up to the huge and complex studio plants of today."
"In the Hydrotype (imbibition) process of printing color films, color images are produced by means of successive contact in a moist environment of special films (“blank films”) with three color separation relief images — matrices — dyed in appropriate color by water-soluble dyes."
"Video-tape recording is very useful in television broadcasting, but editing it is not as easy as editing motion-picture film. A new procedure has been designed for dubbing a master tape to contain all desired scenes, in chosen durations and sequence, selected from an original tape. An intermediary helical tape recorder-scanner is used for editing, and a computer records the editor's selections. In a subsequent automatic operation the computer electronically controls the dubbing from original to master tape. With this equipment, editing can be done by one program director, and the amount of work involved can be reduced to half, compared to the conventional splicing method."
"Although much information is available about the random noise visibility in various television systems, none refers to the interpretation of the results in terms of the particular television standard. The author assumed a linear summation on noise visibility of the individual frequency component of the noise spectra, and concluded that the video weighting function in different television standards must be identical except that its reference frequency is varied in proportion to the line frequency. The validity of the analysis was supported by experiments on the relative visibility of the octave-band random noises with twelve television standards including the four different ones now in use."
"This new method for measuring noise in television signals utilizes the time-gated CRT display for the separation of noise power from the video signal. A small rectangular path of a uniform brightness is sampled from the picture signal and its waveform is displayed with a linear time-base sandwiched in between those of the adjustable reference noises. Since the brightness and the quasi-peak-to-peak amplitude of the two displayed waveforms are compared simultaneously, it is quite easy to match them with reasonable accuracy (about 0.5 dB). The instrument can be used to measure conveniently the noise level of the individual heads of the four-head video-tape recorder as a function of the signal level. It has a provision for the weighting functions against the noise frequency and the signal amplitude. The method is applicable to a very small sample area and this has advantages over the existing methods such as those proposed by Weaver and by Edwardson."
"Projection light sources are reviewed historically according to the various types of lamphouses, arc controls, power supplies and optics that have been used. The xenon short-arc lamp has recently become a popular projection light source in American laboratories and studio review rooms. The compatibility of the high-intensity carbon arc and the xenon short-arc lamp sources and the resultant screen light are of importance since there are between them chromatic differences related to the position of each source on the ICI chromaticity curve and the spectral energy within the visible spectrum. Experiments have confirmed that carbon-arc and xenon short-arc projection light sources are compatible within acceptable tolerances."
"Many Papers have been published in recent years on automatic lens design. There has been much disagreement and argument—some on points of detail and some on fundamental concepts. In 1964 two papers on lens design were published in the Journal1,2 and some correspondence on the subject was subsequently published.3,4"
"A new method of lens designing, based on the statistical analysis of traced geometrical skew rays as a function of lens-parameter changes, is both faster and more precise than traditional methods using the Seidel simplified approximate analytic functions devised originally for hand computation. The great speed with which the electronic computer can process large masses of numerical data makes the new method practical. The least-squares technique makes it possible to handle a problem which would otherwise be unmanageably large. The technique is especially versatile when the complexity of problems to be solved varies over a great range. Through the sequence of tracing rays to obtain data, evaluating image errors from the data and minimizing these errors by iteration, it reduces lens designing to a curve-fitting system."
"Designing a lens with a computer requires that all the data which describe the lens specifications be fed to the computer as numbers. Features of such a computer program are described. Ray tracing is employed to evaluate a merit function, defined as the sum of the squares of the weighted ray deviations from the centroid of the image element. An iterative procedure is used to find lens parameter values which minimize the merit function."
"Pierre Mertz (Chairman, SMPTE Board of Editors; Consultant, Lido Beach, L.I., N. Y.): The method of computation seems to be, for each of several assumed rays emerging from the object into the lens, to find where that ray lands on the assumed image plane. Now, because of diffraction, that ray does not stay of infinitesimal cross section, but appears as a diffraction pattern on the image plane. This aspect does not seem to be considered in the computation."
"There is considerable divergence of opinion on the best ways of using a large computer as an aid in lens design. The individual computations can be performed very rapidly by a computer, but we begin to make use of its enormous speed and memory only if we program it so that it can choose and assess a new interim design in the light of assessments of previous designs. How should the assessments and the choices be made? Could they be entirely automatic? How much control should the designer retain?"
"Dynamic study of chemical and physical reactions by use of the electron microscope is particularly valuable when combined with cinemicrography, using techniques such as time-lapse photography and continuous magnification changes. Direct use of the imaging electron beam for photographic exposure gives maximum photographic quality, but presents problems of slow speeds of emulsions to electrons, outgassing and embrittlement of film in the microscope vacuum, and static discharge fogging. Several types of 16mm films have been evaluated in microscopy experiments. Techniques for effective ciné recording have been used with special electron microscopy reaction methods for application to nuclear fuel ceramics."
"The problems of time-lapse cinemicrography of cell cultures differ greatly from those of still photomicrography of fixed preparations. The cost of commercial equipment for a complete setup is too high for the small laboratory. Utilizing existing equipment, some purchased components and some equipment constructed by the engineering department of the Isaac Albert Research Institute, a time-lapse unit was assembled. Available components and the specially designed repetitive electronic flash unit, incubator and pump are discussed."
"In radiology, ciné filming of a fluoroscopic image derived from the output phosphor of an image amplifying tube is common practice and has added the dynamic study of organ structures to the usual static film studies. This is facilitated by the use of television monitoring of the image during study of the patient and recording of the image on ciné film. Many procedures previously performed in darkened rooms may thus be performed in adequately lighted rooms. Closed-circuit television is utilized for teaching and for the transmission of radiographic images from the hospital's X-Ray Department to the Emergency Department."
"This Guide has been prepared to aid in the effective application of relays and other devices for the protection of power transformers. It supplements information that was previously published in a Committee Report titled Protection of Power Transformers, 1962 Relays Committee Survey of Practices. (Reference 2.1.2) This Guide reviews the general philosophy and economic considerations involved in transformer protection, describes the types of faults that have been experienced, and discusses technical problems with such protection, including current transformer behavior under fault conditions. The various types of electric, mechanical, and thermal protective devices are described. Associated problems such as fault clearing and re-energizing considerations are also discussed. Emphasis in the Guide is placed on practical applications rather than basic theory which may be obtained from several good references in the Bibliography."
"The continuing expansion and modernization program in the cement industry has placed an increasing importance on the cement plant power distribution system. Increasing plant capacity accompanied by larger kilns, grinding mills, crushers, and the increasing use of automatic controls has placed greater stress on the adequacy and reliability of the distribution system. Safety, capacity, reliability, and low maintenance-all at a reasonable cost-are the requirements of the cement plant power distribution system."
"These Marine Recommendations have been drawn up to serve as a guide for the equipment of merchant vessels with an electric plant system and electric apparatus for lighting, signaling, communication, power, and propulsion. They indicate what is considered good engineering practice with reference to safety of the personnel and of the ship itself as well as reliability and durability of the apparatus; it is not intended, however, that improvements, which may be developed from time to time, should be excluded. These Recommendations are intended to supplement the other Standards of the IEEE, which should be followed wherever applicable. Attention is directed to the fact that regulations for electric installations on shipboard are promulgated by the Government Regulatory Agencies and the American Bureau of Shipping. These Recommendations have given due consideration to all the regulations, but since the above referenced sponsoring bodies frequently modify the requirements to meet changing conditions, reference should always be made to the latest edition of their requirements."
"Conference proceedings front matter may contain various advertisements, welcome messages, committee or program information, and other miscellaneous conference information. This may in some cases also include the cover art, table of contents, copyright statements, title-page or half title-pages, blank pages, venue maps or other general information relating to the conference that was part of the original conference proceedings."
"Presents the table of contents page of the proceedings record."
"Presents an index of the authors whose articles are published in the conference proceedings record."
"An increasing number of new applications in the electrical insulation and reinforced plastics industries are specifying a combination of unique properties. These properties include higher heat resistance, improved power factor properties at elevated temperatures at 60 cycles and at higher frequencies, improved ultraviolet resistance and weatherability, low weight loss and good retention of physical properties at temperature and after long time exposure at Class F through greater than Class H types of environments. In addition, the resin systems must have a high degree of reactivity, possess excellent handling characteristics, good compatibility, and must be readily adaptable to automation techniques. This paper describes the unique reactivity of this first series of new heat resistant, electrical grade, fast curing thermosetting resins. Two versions of these resins have been commercialized. One system is referred to as B78-156-40VT, the neat resin cut with 40% vinvltoluene to a 15 poise viscosity. The second system, still referred to as Koppers' B78-156-35VT/5DVB, contains the neat resin cut in 35% vinyltoluene and 5% divinylbenzene. This paper concentrates on highlighting the thermal and electrical properties of these new resin systems. The physical properties of castings, glass mat and glass fabric reinforced laminates at room and elevated temperatures, with and without aging are described. Weight loss data for castings and laminates over 1500 and 3500 hours subjection periods are described for Koppers' Y7000-15 and B78-156-35VT/5DVB systems. Comparison of resistance to thermal degradation over 1000 hour aging periods is shown for the new resins and other resins such as silicones, epoxies, thermosetting acrylics, polybutadienes and other polyester systems. The retention of the physical properties of glass mat reinforced laminates based on V700Ö-15 and B78-156-35VT/5DVB at 180 and 220°C. is shown. Comparison to glass fiber reinforced epoxy laminates is made at these same temperatures. Comprehensive work describing the influence of temperatures from 25°C. through 250°C. on the power factor and dielectric constant properties of these new V7000-15 and B78-156-35VT/ 5DVB resin in cast and laminate form at different frequencies and conditioning sequences is tabulated and plotted. Comparison of these same properties for cycloaliphatic and bisphenol epoxy systems is noted. Complete comparisons of V7000-15 and B78-156-35VT/5DVB resins in cast and laminate form to those of cycloaliphatic and bisphenol epoxy systems in terms of arc resistance, dielectric strength-perpendicular and parallel, power factor, dielectric constant, volume resistivity, surface resistivity, insulation resistance, chemical resistance, weather resistance, ultraviolet resistance and track resistance is emphasized."
"The growth of the mica paper business from small beginnings in the early 1950's to the large and important segment of the electrical insulation market which it is today has been marked by great activity and progress in many areas of endeavor concerned with mica and mica paper. This progress ranges all the way from pure research on the structure of mica, through an elucidation of many processes for producing mica papers to the practical problem of applying mica mat tapes to obtain the best overall results.1 A measure of this activity is the fact that in Chemical Abstracts alone, which cover this period, there are well over one hundred pertinent articles on mica and mica paper."
"Reinforced plastics for use in electrical and electronic applications are available with various resins and reinforcements in sheet, tube, rod and molded forms. As a result, various combinations of mechanical, electrical and chemical properties with cost are available. The decision as to which laminate, for instance, should be used in a specific application should be based on a balance between the end use requirements (with sufficient safety factors) and the available laminate properties (and cost in some cases). Often there are materials developed which exhibit outstanding properties in certain areas. However, the need for those properties may never be evident if designers and users of the materials are not aware that the property capability exists. As a result, end use designs are modified to accommodate known materials and the new development is shelved. The purpose here then is to present the capabilities of a new reinforcing material for high pressure laminates. The objective is to provide designers and users of electrical insulation with information of a laminate with outstanding dielectric strength and insulation resistance."
"There is a need for a flexible coated insulation having high-temperature capabilities and suitable for use in nonventilated or sealed equipment operating at high voltages and under conditions unfavorable to silicones as part of the insulation system. The work described in this paper is part of a continuing program to meet this need from both functional and economic standpoints."
"The determination of cold-punchability of electrical grade laminates has usually been restricted to actual punching of the laminate with standard dies. Evaluation of results is visual.1"
"The development of fiberglass reinforced polyester laminates nearly a quarter century ago has been of significant benefit to the electrical manufacturing industry. The unique combination of superior physical strength, excellent dielectric qualities, temperature abilities, and low cost have helped manufacturers meet the competitive requirements of improving reliability and reducing size of a myriad of products."
"The reliability of electrical insulation in a high speed universal motor has for years been of concern to motor manufacturers and their insulation suppliers. Of main concern is lack of correlation between insulation suppliers' test and the results obtained when evaluated in an actual universal motor. The motor manufacturers have over the years developed test fixtures and methods similar to the \"Skil Torture Test\" ∗ as outlined in the paper presented at 1962 Electrical Insulation Conference 1 and in Insulation 2 magazine of February 1964. Other motor producers refer to this type of test as \"Stall Testing\" or \"Lock Rotor Testing.\" This type of testing involves a cycle which includes a locked or stalled rotor heating period, a no load, full speed period, and an off period. The number of cycles to failure indicates a value level for the insulation being tested. This type of testing, however, has two main drawbacks. First, there are a number of variables which can produce unrelated early failures and second, the cost and availability of test units, especially for the insulation manufacturer, makes it highly unattractive as a standard test procedure. Among the variables producing erratic results are field failures, shorts or opens, variations in no load speeds when the voltage is held constant, and variations in stall currents due to variations between fields."
"This paper deals with the stator winding insulation primarily of water wheel generators, and the development and experience of this important part of rotating machines in Norway."
"Both tan δ and electric strength of high voltage insulation are used as measures of its quality. Tan δ measurements, being non-destructive, can be used to follow the quality of an insulation through the processing into the machine and through service. They are also used to evaluate the life of insulation under thermal aging or voltage endurance by measurements on the same samples throughout the tests. In contrast, measurements of the electric strength, being destructive, require new samples for each test. However, an electric strength measurement is functional; it indicates how much stress the insulation can withstand above the operating and test stresses. Tan δ values are, at best, only an indirect measure of anticipated insulation performance and then only in the belief that some correlation exists between tan δ and the electric strength. It would be highly desirable if such a correlation could be substantiated."
"Some varnishes can interact with magnet wire enamels and reduce the thermal life rating of the insulation system below that of the enamel itself. This interaction in some cases is called incompatibility. In essence it is a reduction in the reliability of electrical insulation in rotating machinery, and with this the reliability of the machinery itself. Clarification of the mechanism of this interaction should lead to the wiser selection of enamels and varnishes for rotating electrical equipment with increased reliability and yielding the increased economies associated with improved reliability of machinery."
"While a large amount of information has been gathered on thermal and environmental aging of magnet wire films, and on the effects of corona and electrical discharge on sheet and film dielectrics, very little has been published on the effect of sustained voltages on magnet wire insulations. Under field use conditions many of these films encounter continual voltage stresses of considerable magnitude as well as extremely high voltage surges of short duration. The effect of these conditions on insulating materials has a significant bearing on how well and how long electrical equipment will continue to operate efficiently."
"Turbine generator rotor designs place stringent requirements on insulation. The insulation, operating at Class B temperatures, must withstand mechanical and electrical stresses for the life of the machine as well as maintaining accuracy of insulation alignment. A turbine generator is expected to operate for at least 20 years on a continuous basis without in-service insulation failures. These objecitves are attained using specially selected materials and designs and improved processing."
"If one takes a broad perspective view of present-day ceramic electronic materials technology, we find that MgO is in the group of linear dielectric materials. It is used over wide extremes of (a) temperature (from cryogenic to plasma), (b) frequencies (d-c to Gigacycle range), (c) voltages (d-c, a-c, low-to-high), (d) different environments (space vacuum, ambient, gaseous), (e) under irradiation conditions (u-v, alpha, beta-ray, gamma-ray, x-ray, electron, proton, cosmic ray, (f) for various time durations (microseconds to several years, pulsed and non-pulsed). To meet such application design criteria, a designer must have a first-hand knowledge of the behavior of MgO under all these varied conditions either singly or in multiple combinations. He cannot look at one set of properties such as the electrical and ignore the mechanical or thermal. He must further be aware that ceramic electronic materials (e) are available in a variety of forms (single crystal, bicrystal, polycrystalline, thin film, amorphous); (2) can be processed by a number of different techniques (sintering, hot pressing, slip casting, hydrostatic, isostatic), (3) have properties which can be influenced by processing variables (effect of pressure on compacting or pressing, firing atmospheres such as vacuum, air, inert gases, hydrogen, cooling rates, quenching effects); (4) have properties which can be influenced by impurities (unintentional or deliberately added giving interstitial effects, solid solution effects); (5) have properties which can be influenced by particle size distribution (which in turn has an effect on densification amount of crystalline phased present, fine or coarse grain produced); (6) can be influenced by heat treat and thermal aging effects (time and temperature on grain growth, grain boundary precipitation and depletion, pre- and post-treatment); (7) are subject to plastic deformation effects (static-and dynamic-producing dislocations); (8) and finally are susceptible to voltage and field effects. The extent to which the above variables are parameters affect the electrical and electronic properties of MgO is the basis of my characterization study. Since I have not progressed very far in this project and only completed the literature survey phase, I can only give you a few highlights and general outline of its scope."
"The purpose of the work reported here is development of a new type dielectric that could lead to improved energy storage and other foil-type capacitors of higher volumetric efficiency than metallized film units presently being manufactured."
"The highly successful use of transfer molding to encapsulate electronic components and assemblies has motivated the electrical industry to look at the same process for the plastic packaging of low to medium power electrical devices. Basically, the same techniques and similar equipment and materials can be utilized to advantage in the encapsulation of electrical devices with the same production increases and manufacturing economies gained by the electronics industry."
"The printed circuit industry is aware that dicyandiamide-cured G-10 laminates degrade on storage, often to the point that they lose their ability to withstand exposure to molten solder. This degradation appears to be related to the degree to which the laminate is protected by copper cladding, i.e., the descending order of stability is (1) clad both sides, (2) clad one side, and (3) unclad. This observation, coupled with the fact that good solder dip properties can sometimes be recovered by giving the laminates a heat treatment, suggests that the degradation is due to an outside factor, possibly the absorption of water."
"Some years ago, a specification for a particle accelerator magnet coil stipulated that the insulation between turns be bonded to the conductor with an epoxy adhesive having a tensile bond strength exceeding a specified minimum value."
"For determining the degree of cross-linking in vulcanizable clastomers, a new test method, in which the modulus is measured in a heated liquid medium, has shown superiority in accuracy and facility over several other presently used tests."
"Surface corona discharges occur under two conditions in high voltage rotating machines. One is the breakdown of air gaps between the core laminations and adjacent coil sides. The other is the brush discharge at the interface between ground potential and capacitively induced high voltage on the coil surface. Both types have a long history of damage to insulation."
"The firm with which the author is associated has been using shellac-bonded micafolium for insulating the stator windings of high-voltage rotating machines since 1910, and also, from 1930 onwards, asphalt-bonded micafolium, though largely for higher-voltage machines. Both systems follow European practice in that the required number of layers is wrapped around the slot portion of bar in broad sheets, and then hot pressed. Both have proved themselves very well in practice, and therefore continue to be used today. Difficulties due to creeping, which have been associated with other insulation systems using narrow mica tapes wound in several stages and impregnated with asphalt under vacuum, have not arisen with these two systems."
"While tremendous advances in dielectric materials for ground insulation and turn insulation have been made in recent years, little thought has been given to creepage requirements. Creepage \"requirements\" seemed adequately defined in 1913 when Gray stated: \"To prevent breakdown of the end connection insulation due to this cause (ionization of the air over the slot insulation extension), the distance (from core to the end of the slot insulation) is made as large as possible without increasing the total length of the machine to an unreasonable extent, and the end connection insulation is made strong enough to withstand the full puncture voltage but with a lower factor of safety than that used for the slot insulation.\"1"
"In conventional life testing for fatigue strength, voltage endurance, or insulation life, the normal procedure consists of holding a test specimen at a steady or fixed stress level until failure. Failure time is then recorded as the life, and further samples are tested at other stress levels until enough data have been accumulated to permit plotting a curve of failure time versus stress."
"AC motors and generators with ratings in the range of 500 kW or more generally use form wound coils consisting of multiple turns of rectangular copper conductors. This type of machine over the years has established a very high level of reliability, but, of course, there are some failures and since these invariably involve important applications, they are of concern."
"Man, at any given moment in time, is in the paradoxical position of congratulating himself for his present intelligence at the same time he is berating himself for his previous ignorance."
"The major role of the dry type transformer is to provide distribution of electrical power from indoor installations. They are used in preference to oil filled units by virtue of reduced fire hazards and the elimination of fire resistant enclosures. With increased use of electrical power for air conditioning, data processing, copying machines, higher illumination levels and automated equipment increased output is required, thus larger KVA units. As an electromagnetic device, the dry type transformer is generally noisy and is, therefore, frequently wall mounted near the ceiling to reduce the noise disturbance. Through the use of higher operating temperatures, increased output per unit size can be obtained to ease the requirements of wall mounting. A 150°C rise unit will require up to 50% less volume and 40% less weight than a Class A thermally rated unit of equivalent output. In other instances, such as ballasts for mercury vapor lamps, higher thermal performance is required because of higher ambient temperatures. The dry type transformer is also widely used by the Military, again for its increased output per unit size and elimination of fire hazards. It becomes, therefore, apparent that the key factor in their design, no matter what the application might be, is higher thermal capabilities."
"This paper is a continuation and supplement of a previous paper on this same subject,1 which deals with the accelerated life testing of small low voltage electronic power transformers. In this paper are reported the results of life tests which were incomplete at the time of the previous paper. Additional life tests under different conditions of the same insulation system and modified with a different layer insulation are also reported here for the first time. To present an integrated picture, the results previously reported are summarized here together with the additional and new data."
"This paper is concerned with the comparison of two procedures for the evalution of the insulation systems of transformers when using an electronic type power transformer. These procedures are: IEEE No. 259, \"Proposed Test Procedure for Evaluation of Systems of Insulation for Specialty Transformers,\" and IEEE No. 266 \"Proposed Test Procedure for the Evaluation of Insulation Systems for Electronics Power Transformers.\""
"Users of Proposed Test Procedure, IEEE 259, \"Evaluation of Systems of Insulation for Specialty Transformers,\" have become aware of the need for a low cost screening test of short duration to be conducted prior to manufacture of test transformers. A quick and simple screening test is needed to indicate insulation incompatabilities and faults in an insulation system under consideration. This will serve an economic need by making more certain that labor and material required to produce and life test actual transformers results in meaningful data. This paper proposes a test piece and method. The test piece is described and can be easily assembled by hand with readily available materials. The components of the test piece are of low cost and dimensions are not critical — conditions which promote acceptability and reproducible results at different laboratories. These are prime requirements if a screening procedure is to become a supplement to IEEE 259. A comparison of the data obtained with actual transformers using IEEE 259 procedure and the proposed test piece, both constructed with the same insulation system is shown as well as with twisted pair tests IEEE No. 57 using the same enameled wire. When sufficient background data has been developed using the subject test piece, it is anticipated that a base performance life line would be established for a 105 °C rise system as was done in the case of the transformer test procedure."
"Shielding in Transformers: The prevention of electrical interference is an increasingly important requirement in the manufacture of electrical and electronic equipment."
"This paper discusses an experimental study of the electrical properties of Mylar® polyester films. The investigation determined how the weight and volume of capacitors could be reduced while improving reliability. Test data relates the lifetime of a capacitor to its operating voltage, frequency, and temperature. The data also demonstrates the effect on life of per cent current reversal and insulation thickness. The study showed that a weight savings of 30% to 500% in capacitors can be achieved, but, more important, the test data enables capacitor designers to tailor products to specific applications, thereby achieving optimum performance."
"In the electronics industry, outside of the electron tube field, there is a class of devices that make important and significant use of insulating materials. These devices are of the semiconductor class such as transistors, diodes and integrated circuits. Generally, the insulating material is important, primarily for its basic mechanical properties, since it is used as a packaging medium. In more recent years, of course, thermal properties, sealing properties, etc., have come to be important. There is one class of diode, however, now closely being followed up by certain transistors and even integrated circuitry that has been significantly dependent upon the electrical properties of the insulating material. The microwave diode is probably the only device over the past fifteen to twenty years that has been so dependent (with the exception of high voltage breakdown criteria). Mostly being very low voltage devices (up to 6V) for many years, some diodes are now built with 1000V capabilities. We have been mainly concerned with dielectric constant and loss tangent as the important insulating electrical properties. The frequency spectrum of consideration is from 1000 MHz to at least 100,000 MHz. While this paper is mainly concerned with microwave diodes, it touches briefly on a new concept: the integrated microwave circuit."
"The purpose of this paper i9 to describe the electronic and engineering properties of high frequency grade PPO® polyphenylene oxide. All grades of PPO and Noryl® thermoplastic resin have low and stable electrical properties and there is a special grade designated 681-111 which has low dielectric loss properties into the gigacycle range. It also has excellent structural strength which classes it as an engineering plastic. This is the unique aspect of this material: no other engineering thermoplastic (nylon, polycarbonate or acetal) has the low, stable dielectric properties of PPO. And no good dielectric (fluorocarbons or cross-linked ethylenes or styrenes) has the structural strength of PPO. An additional advantage is its high heat distortion temperature of 375°F. This allows it to withstand dip soldering and other peak temperature requirements."
"Gegard is a new trade-marked process of the General Electric Service Shops Department. It has now developed, from a laboratory technique, into a high production process for resin treating motor windings."
"If there is any one point on which the engineering community agrees, it is the fact that equipment they design must be protected against the effects of its operating environment. Although the exact duration of this protection is in many cases very poorly defined, the universal goal is to obtain the maximum product reliability possible within a certain economic framework."
"The philosophy governing high voltage synthetic resin bonded insulation has been clearly defined. This concept is predicated on the use of solventless polymers processed by vacuum-pressure impregnation techniques. These essential requirements narrow the selection of applicable polymers to but three prime choices; unsaturated polyesters, epoxies and vinyl silicones. It is to be understood that many modifications of these three basic resins do exist but the classification of such materials remains the same. Since vinyl silicones are not of interest at this time, the discussion will be devoted to only the unsaturated polyester resins and the epoxy resins."
"MICALASTIC® insulation is used successfully since 10 years for high-voltage windings of large electrical machines. This insulation system is built up on a basis of mica and synthetic curable resins. Waterwheel-generators, turbo-generators, synchronous condensers and large motors are provided with this type of insulation. The highest rated voltage of machines designed up to date is 21 kv, and the highest rating per machine is 440 MVA. More than 200 machines representing a total rating of approximately 14 Mill. kvA have been provided with Micalastic insulation.1, 2, 3"
"The VITAC® grade of laminates fits into the category of rigid electrical insulation materials designed for high service temperatures. The laminates are glass mat reinforced and are made rigid through the use of thermosetting resins cured by the vinyl polymerization process. Laminates are made in thicknesses of inch and thicker."
"In January, 1946, The Laminated Plastics Co. started to make glass cloth reinforced polyester resin laminates for use in electrical insulation by the heavy electrical industry, replacing the canvas phenolic laminates widely used at that time. The new materials were about twice the cost of canvas phenolic since they used $2.00/lb. glass cloth, 40¢/lb. polyester resin and 04¢/lb. mineral fillers. They had, however, tremendously greater physical strength and vastly superior track resistance. With the introduction of chopped strand mat by Owens-Corning Fiberglas about 1948, it became possible to make laminates which were cheaper than canvas phenolic by using the 60¢/lb. glass mat in place of the $2.00/lb. glass cloth. The resultant product started to be sold in 1949 at 86¢/lb. (canvas phenolic was $1.00/lb.). This new product gained wide acceptance in the heavy electrical insulation market because of its superior mechanical and electrical properties. The sheet stock was cut up into various sizes and shapes and, using metal angles and nuts and bolts, combination structural insulating systems were made."
"Electrical insulation for use in high voltage switchgear is usually categorized as either gas, liquid, or solid. Equipment designers use all three materials in combinations to achieve the maximum utility at minimum cost. Since high voltage switchgear is physically large, air insulation is most often used. Oil insulation is used where compact designs requiring heat dissipating means are needed. Solid insulation is most frequently used in parallel with gas or oil except in the most simple systems, such as cable. Extending the concept of solid insulation combined with a gas insulation to the limit of combination, a high efficiency system has been attained with modern plastic foam."
"The testing methods for measuring the tracking resistance of organic insulators using drops of electrolytic solution such as the IEC recommended test1,2 and the DIN test3,4 have some merits; the test device is simple and the test procedure is comparatively easy. However, in the IEC test, test voltages above 500V or 600V cannot be applied because at the higher voltages an arc bridges the electrodes and the C.T.I. (Comparative Tracking Index) is not significant. Consequently the IEC test is not suitable for testing materials having such high tracking resistance because the C.T.I, cannot be measured."
"Before about 1930, tracking was used to describe a form of surface degradation of electrical insulation due to rubbing contacts, such as brushes, but from that date onwards the term gradually became associated with the formation of a conducting carbonized path caused by the combination of electrical stress and surface contamination. For the purpose of this paper, tracking is defined as \"the decomposition of electrical insulation, caused by the passage of electric current or charge, resulting in the progressive formation (usually tree-like) of a conducting carbon path.\" There are numerous other definitions of tracking in the literature,1 many of which invoke the presence of arcs, scintillations etc.,2 and although these are often responsible in practice for the initiation of tracking, the absence of discharges does not imply that tracking will not occur. For example, Figure 1 illustrates tracking beneath the surface of a phenolic-resin-bonded paper bushing, caused by ingress of moisture into the outer paper layers. This form of degradation was produced by high leakage currents just under the surface of the bushing and, as far as is known, no arcs or discharges were involved in the carbon path formation."
"Electrical engineers, as well as polymer physicists and materials researchers, can gain useful information from a study of the behavior of dielectrics, and of high-megohm resistors, at very low frequencies. This is illustrated by examples. There are two main methods of obtaining ultra-low-frequency data. One is to apply a d.c. voltage producing a time-dependent current which corresponds to an inverse frequency plot. The other is to use an alternating voltage, usually sinusoidal, and apply this to a bridge circuit including the material under study. Recent developments in the latter methods are presented, along with some typical results."
"In recent years,1,2 there has been a rapid development of plastic materials capable of withstanding temperatures of 200°C (392°F) and above, while just a few years ago the thermal stability of a plastic was gauged by its ability to withstand the torturous test of submersion in boiling water."
"First, an historic review will be given of early electrostatic experiments, and the attempts at theories describing electrostatic charging will be discussed. Modern theory had to await the development of thermodynamics, ionic solution theory, and of solid-state physics before charging phenomena relating to liquids and solids could be quantitatively understood."
"There appears to be a steady increase in the number of publications dealing with the electronic properties of organic solids in general. Conductive polymers are of particular interest since they are expected to have better mechanical properties, and are thus more suitable for technical applications, than the monomeric conducting organic materials which are mainly micro crystalline or amorphous solids."
"During the past decade new insulations have been developed at an unprecedented rate. In the fractional horsepower motor manufacturing field a number of special factors influence the kind of insulations which gain commercial acceptance. Fractional horsepower motors are highly competitive, and therefore cost, especially labor cost, becomes an important factor in the acceptance of insulations. It is therefore important to manufacturers of fractional horsepower motors that, in addition to good insulating qualities, insulations be suitable for automatic application in the motor. Many excellent insulations have been bypassed by our industry because they were not suitable for automatic application. Along with the development of better insulations, we have seen energetic development of new automatic processes and equipment for the application of these insulating materials to the motor. These two developments, in my opinion, have been instrumental in keeping the United States ahead of world-wide competition in the manufacture of fractional horsepower motors. In addition to these technological advances, we have made substantial progress in recognizing the difference between the insulating requirements in fractional horsepower motors and other equipment and devising better test methods for appraising new insulating materials for our particular needs."
"The requirement for the optimum portable electric tool motor is that it produces extremely high power output for its weight and size and that it holds up under the normal and abusive operation to which it is subjected during its expected life. To obtain the ultimate in this respect, full advantage must be taken of all applicable advancements in the state of the art. Widespread use has been made of new higher temperature materials to overcome the predominate short time failures caused by severe overloads, but in general the design standards for the allowable temperature rise at rated loads have remained unchanged. It is recognized that is some cases desired speed-torque characteristics, tool handle or case temperature may prevent deviating from the presently established limits; but in many cases, smaller long life motors using new insulating materials and operating at rated load at much higher temperatures are possible. A method of evaluating the insulation systems of portable electric tool motors which incorporate the exposure conditions peculiar to this type of application, and which covers the range of temperatures likely to be encountered under light to maximum \"expected\" overload conditions, is very much desired. Presented herein is a method of evaluation employing certain novel approaches developed by one manufacturer. While it was designed to meet the requirements of power tool motors, it is hoped that the solution suggested is of universal interest."
"With the recognition of overload resistance as a distinct and separate property, much has been added to the knowledge of magnet wire film performance. While various investigations1–5 have resulted in the classification of film insulations according to their resistance to overload, it has also been learned6–8 that this property does not necessarily correlate with long term thermal stability."
"In 1966, for the first time, the value of motors and small generators surpassed $1 billion. In 1964, only two years earlier, the comparative figure was approximately $731 million."
"The growth of load and load density in congested urban areas has resulted in the need to concentrate switchgear for handling large blocks of power in these same areas. As the availability of real estate for such installations diminishes it is important that substations distributing the power make the most economical use of the available space. Such economy is a prime advantage of metal-clad switchgear."
"Continuous advances in rotating equipment design are placing greater demands on electrical insulations. The conditions under which magnet wire operates have been changing. In some cases, this has resulted from the removal of phase insulation, reduction in magnet wire build or the use of high temperature film insulated magnet wire with low temperature ground insulation. Operating temperatures, overload temperatures, voltage stresses and numerous types of atmospheres have increased over those encountered several years ago."
"The selection and application of insulating materials is vital to the design of a double insulated (DI) tool to make it as safe as a properly grounded one."
"360,000 years B.C., in the Paleolithic age, Peking man invented means to create fire. 361,714 years later, Gabriel Daniel Fahrenheit invented the means to measure the effect. This classical gap between hardware and test methods persists today; most notably, in definitive tests of transformer structures."
"Cellulose in the form of paper and pressboard has been used as electrical insulation in transformers for many years. Its low cost ready availability, good electrical properties when immersed in oil' ease of storage and installation, and general reliability have made it virtually a universal choice. It is, however, generally recognized by the electrical industry as the most significant limiting factor in the operating temperature and thermal life of transformers furthermore m a sealed system such as a transformer, the accumulated thermal degradation products of cellulose accelerate cellulose deterioration, and in addition, significantly affect the life of other components."
"Epoxy-glass pressure rings which can be used to clamp and hold the coils of core-form transformers aaginst axial magnetic thrust have been developed. Manufacturing of the parts is accomplished by random continuous wet winding of multiple strands of glass filaments in a mold to a radial build of two to eight inches. Subsequent thermal processing provides mechanical and insulating strength and stability in the pieces such that these may be considered replacements for the steel parts presently used in oil- and Inerteen®-filled apparatus."
"In North America, the density, or the specific gravity of mineral insulating oils, has traditionally been considered to be of no significance in establishing the suitability of the oil for specific applications, but has only been of value to the purchaser in signalling any drastic change in the base crude stock from which the oil was refined."
"As part of our efforts to produce better electrical insulating fluids, we are trying to understand the mechanism of dielectric loss in these fluids. We believe such an understanding, will lead to better insulating fluids and more efficient petroleum refining processes."
"The basic philosophy governing this development effort was concentrated on the possibilities of using dielectric material for a simple lightweight deployable reflector antenna capable of high surface accuracies which include consideration of fabrication, assembly, packaging, deployment and operation techniques."
"The past few years have started to show more major imaginative engineering changes and have continued to set the pace for product developments in electrical insulation and jacketing for wire and cable. Power and communication lines in different sizes and forms have evolved to meet the continuing new electrical and electronic requirements, such as miniaturization in coaxial cables. As expected, bottlenecks accompanied growth; examples of past problems include when polyethylene (PE) was almost not developed,1 when the original polypropylene (PP) caused copper poisoning, and when major fire problems developed. Now PE insulation is the second largest plastics used and by 1971 it will be larger than polyvinyl chloride (PVC); PP due to its toughness and excellent electrical properties is required in different applications such as deep well power cable; fire resistance is provided by PVC."
"Effective interceptor type homing guided missiles must operate at velocities of more than three thousand feet a second in the atmosphere. Developments and studies have indicated that certain of these may eventually be operational in the velocity regime of six to more than eight thousand feet a second. This operational regime is different from the exo-atmospheric regime with a re-entry type vehicle, which encounters its own set of environmental problems."
"The microwave antenna art has borrowed many of its techniques from optics, particularly in its use of reflectors and lenses for collimating microwave radiation into directive beams. Many optical principles are equally practical in both the microwave and the optical regions of the spectrum."
"The subject is magnet wire evaluation. It's evolution has traversed a speck of time within the life span of Science. As with most subjects within the science spectrum, the knowledge has been developed in the past twenty years."
"The IEEE (formerly AIEE 57) test procedure for the evaluation of the thermal stability of enameled magnet wire in air1 did not specify a method of supporting the twisted wire samples during the thermal aging cycles. The ASTM D 2307 method2 which supersedes the IEEE document, now mentions one type of holder, the \"floating\" type, that may be used. There have been numerous methods used in the past to support magnet wire samples by the various commercial and Navy laboratories. In a round-robin test performed by nine laboratories3 in 1958, the method of supporting the samples was optional. The use of various holders has been discussed at various meetings of the AIEE Working Group on Magnet Wire 4 6 but no positive action was ever taken to standardize on the type of holder to be used. A series of tests by a United Kingdom laboratory 7 in 1960 used three methods of supporting twisted magnet wire samples. These methods consisted of (a) hanging the samples on a rod, (b) clamping both wires at one end in a holder and (c) clamping one wire at one end and providing limited restraint on the other wire. The longest life was reported with the clamp-restraint holder (c), the clamp method (b) resulted in a longer life than with the rod method (a). No mention was made in the report of whether the samples were varnished or unvarnished. In 1960 the Naval Research Laboratory reported on the development of a multiple-clamp type specimen holder.8 By the use of this holder ('which is the same as the \"Clamp\" holder reported later in this report) some of the variables associated with the thermal study programs were eliminated. Another holder was described by McClenahan9 which allowed the both ends of the wire to protrude beyond the holder, thus providing essentially a floating holder."
"The evaluation of new magnet wire enamels is a slow and costly process. There are at least one hundred different tests which have been developed by various segments of the electrical industry to determine the suitability of magnet wire enamels. Some of these tests take over a year to complete. A large modern chemical laboratory can synthesize new polymers at an astonishing rate, making complete testing of only a fraction of the polymers practical. This paper deals with the selection of screening tests to determine the best candidates for complete evaluation. Screening test results are compared with the results of more complete later evaluations and finally with commercial experience."
"Judging by the number of inquiries received during the course of a year, there appears to be a reasonable interest in the density of various magnet wire insulations. The determination of the density of such insulations appears, on paper at least, to be a very simple procedure. It involves weighing the coated wire in air, weighing in water, stripping the insulation from the wire, weighing the stripped wire in air and then in water. Water was chosen because its specific gravity is close enough to 1.00 so that volumes are equal to weight of water displaced."
"Today's electrical industry requires insulating material that function effectively in a variety of atmospheres and over wide ranges of temperature. Examples of atmospheres commonly encountered, in addition to air, include vacuum, oxygen, hydrogen, electronegative gases such as sulphur hexafluoride (SF6) and refrigerants such as CCl2F2, and oils, both petroleum and synthetic. To fulfill these needs, organic chemists and insulation engineers have developed a variety of new insulating materials, each of which has unique advantages. The design engineer faces the challenging problem of matching the proper insulating material to the requirements of a particular application."
"The thermal life rating of resin coated magnet wire is primarily based upon twist data obtained on AWG size No. 18 magnet wire when performed in accordance with the procedures of ASTMD-2307.1 Sizes that may be evaluated range from AWG No. 8 to AWG No. 36."
"As the trend continues for electrical equipment to be designed more compactly and with the accompanying rise in operating temperatures, more time is being spent to develop better insulating materials and equipment designs. In the case of switch gear, for example, the size has been reduced by approximately 1/3 over the past ten years. In earlier designs, air gap alone was used, in most instances, to provide the phase to phase separation; more recent equipment has been designed using insulated conductors in order that the distance between them can be reduced. In high voltage equipment, phenolic sleeves were probably the first materials used for insulating bus duct and current carrying members. Sometime after that, casting systems based on epoxy and polyester resins came into use. A newer process currently being investigated by the industry involves the application of epoxy powders to the bus duct and current carrying members using the fluidized bed coating process."
"Non-reinforcing fillers are commonly used in epoxy resin formulations to reduce shrinkage, improve thermal shock resistance, dissipate heat, impart flame retardancy and lower costs. Because of the numerous types of fillers available and the lack of systematic comparisons of the effect of these fillers on properties of representative epoxy formulations, selection of the optimum filler for a given application may involve considerable guess-work. The principal objective of this study is to provide comparative data illustrating the effect of 19 fillers on the electrical properties, shrinkage, thermal shock resistance, water resistance, viscosity and stability of two typical epoxy resin formulations. A flexibilized anhydride cured epoxy system of the type used for electrical encapsulations and a general purpose, rigid, aliphatic amine cured epoxy system were selected as the binders for this study. Filler loadings were equated on a volume concentration basis because of the wide difference in densities of the fillers studied and the more direct relationship of properties such as shrinkage, thermal shock resistance, viscosity and cost per manufactured unit to volume concentration rather than weight concentration."
"This paper is designed for the component manufacturer. It will cover some of the latest developments in the encapsulation of electronic and electrical components, using low pressure transfer moulding."
"Insulators used outdoors have to have long creepage paths, which are substantially longer than the insulator itself. Sheds provide this long path and also form water shedding points to hinder cascade effects in conditions of heavy rain. This form of insulation is well established with porcelain insulators in vertical and U string configurations. Protected creepage paths are provided, and in fact required in many specifications, but it is not established that a protected path is desirable with polymer insulators. Gepol1–4 uses a suspension set with a protected path whereas the systems developed in England do not.5, 6"
"Through most of its eighty year history, the basic structure of the transformer has not been fundamentally altered. The coils have been wound using round or semi-round copper wire, insulated turn to turn with enamel or paper. The insulation between layers and between separate coils has been paper or a similar material such as pressboard. This entire structure is then vacuum impregnated with mineral oil to develop the necessary insulation strength."
"With the increasing application of organic insulating materials in equipment for high voltages, interest in the study and assessment of the partial discharges in voids in solid insulating materials is also growing. This question is therefore investigated in many laboratories, and national as well as international technical committees have already worked out various proposals for tentative specifications. The International Electrotechnical Commission (IEC) 1 has adopted the nomenclature \"Partial Discharges\" (PD) for such phenomena in its publications, whereas elsewhere very often the expression \"corona,\" which has its origin in the gas discharges at sharp edged electrodes, is preferred."
"Insulations used for electrical wire and cable are usually rated as to their ability to operate at a given temperature. 60°, 75°, 80°, 90°, 105°, 125°, 150°, and 200° centigrade are the most common ratings."
"The magnet wire industry has witnessed in recent years a rapid growth in high polymer chemistry. This growth has resulted in the influx of a large number of new materials capable of consideration by the industry. However, scientific progress has been limited because of the design engineer's concern for standardization and inventory control. The development chemist finds that progress is possible if close cooperation is developed between himself and the magnet wire design engineer."
"Perhaps the most important consideration in the design of electrical insulation systems is the compatibility of that system when exposed to the environmental stresses encountered in its intended application. The investigation of the compatibility of such systems began many years ago when premature failures of electrical equipment were first suspected to be caused by incompatibility. The interaction between the components of the system caused a degradation of the properties of the components and this was termed incompatibility."
"The test procedure discussed in this paper is considered to be a dynamic test of magnet wire insulation systems since the test specimens are subjected to the same environments that the products would experience during production. It was developed to make a quick test involving a number of variables so as to make a value judgment with confidence. The various NEMA standards for enameled or film insulated magnet wire contained various tests to be applied to the insulation while on the wire. These standards also refer to the IEEE Test Procedure for the \"Evaluation of the Thermal Stability of Enameled Wire,\" No. 57, which embodies a twisted pair test specimen because it \"simulates to some extent the actual use of the enameled wires in electrical equipment.\" Since most insulating systems are impregnated or dipped in an electrical insulating varnish, the procedure recommends that the test specimens \"also be impregnated in an appropriate electric insulating varnish to simulate as closely as possible the actual insulating structure\" and suggests that the varnish be cured. NEMA has recommended that unvarnished samples be used, since magnet wire manufacturers do not control the kind of varnish used in treating windings. These are static tests made on defined specimens under standard conditions to compare products."
"This program was written for chemists who perform experiments, make measurements, and interpret data. Too few chemists are taking advantage of the available statistical tools, suspecting that these tools are either too complicated or too time consuming. However, I would rather believe that these chemists are as awed by integral equations, as most mathematicians are by structural formulas. There is no need for a person inexperienced in statistics to assume this responsibility but there is a need to take advantage of the available professional mathematician. With this in mind we requested a statistician to outline a plan that would allow us to follow a designed development program having economy in time, maximum information from measured data, and optimum accuracy and precision from the test results."
"Electrical Insulation can be considered from at least three points of view: Theoretical consideration Engineering application Measurement All three are important and interrelated. Understandably an expert in each of the areas tends to emphasize his own points of view. In this tutorial session Dr. van Lint emphasizes the theoretical considerations in developing a model to describe radiation-induced conductivity in magnesium oxide. Ware deals with the properties of polyethylene which are important in its application as a cable dielectric. Dakin presents a very thorough discussion of corona measurement and its significance. Frisco describes the dielectric interrelationships between electrical components which affect both application and measurement."
"When ionizing radiation interacts with insulating material the electrical conductivity and properties are changed significantly. The physics of this problem can be separated into a sequence of chronological steps. 1. The interaction of the radiation with the material to which releases electrons from bound states producing free carriers (presumably both electrons and holes). 2. The motion of carriers under the influence of electric fields (drift) or density gradients (diffusion). 3. Trapping of the carriers at defect sites having shallow energy levels. The energy level is considered to be shallow if during the course of the experiment there is a reasonable probability for the trapped carrier to be released by thermal energy. 4. The thermal release of the carriers trapped at shallow sites. 5. Trapping of carriers at deep sites. 6. Eventual carrier recombination."
"There has developed in the past 10 to 15 years an increasing conscience about corona in electrical apparatus. This has come about because of the experimental evidence for the degradation and erosion effects of electrical discharges, which gives to many organic insulating materials a finite life under electric stress in the presence of such discharges. This has led to the increasing use of corona testing of apparatus of various types, but without a complete understanding of the significance of the test results."
"The purpose of this paper is to point out a few of the ways in which electrical insulation can influence the performance of an electrical system. Examples are given that are somewhat oversimplified. They are presented only to illustrate certain basic principles to those who are not experts in the design of insulation systems."
"In 1894 the first oil-impregnated paper-insulated lead-sheathed cable was used for high-voltage power transmission in the United States. For approximately fifty years no serious challenger appeared on the scene, and even at present, more than seventy years later, paper-insulated cable is still very much in use for all voltages from 15 kv up, and in one form or another is the only insulation used commercially in the 230–345 kv range. However, in the range from 5 kv (or lower) up to 138 kv, a 30-year old material, polyethylene, has seen increasing service. This paper will outline the requirements for a high-voltage cable insulation, and will investigate the extent to which polyethylene meets these requirements."
"Electronic conduction in various polymeric insulating materials has been discussed by many investigators.1–10 Since Fowler gave successful explanation to X-ray induced conductivity in plastics on the basis of energy-band theory including electron traps,1 electron traps have been considered to play an important role in electrical conduction, of polymer insulators. Similar experiments by means of γ-rays were made for polyethylene by Yahagi 2 and for polystyrene by Coppage.10 The former showed that electrons dominate over ions as charge carriers and the latter proposed from the results of pulsed radiation that an activation energy of 0.2 eV in the long-lived photo-current of polystyrene is attributed to a thermally activated drift mobility. No temperature dependence for the induced conductivity of polyamide copolymers could be detected between 10 and 60°C,11 while the dark conductivity followed the usual exponential rule with activation energies between 1 and 2 eV. Ebeoglu 12 investigated pulsed radiation effects to establish correlation between degree of crystallinity and decay characteristics of photo-currents using the band theory. Yahagi 3 also studied the electrical conductivity of polyethylene irradiated in air at 77°K by high-energy electron beam of 1.5 MeV to propose that if allyl type radicals produced in polyethylene have positive electron affinity, they may serve as electron traps. Partridge 13 pointed out from thermoluminescence of polyethylene that 0.03, 0.2 and 0.5 eV trap centers are attributed to the crystal regions, the amorphous regions and the surfaces of the crystallites, respectively. Electron-excited conductivities have also been investigated,14–17 which essentially leads to the build-up of the space charge in an insulator."
"Along with the recent miniaturization of parts for electronic equipment and rapid increase in packaging density, the diameter (line width) of the wire used for winding, wiring and the interval between wires have been steadily decreasing. Therefore, slight metal corrosion caused by insulating material may result in circuit disconnection, and prevention of electrolytic corrosion is becoming an extremely important problem from the viewpoint of improving the reliability of equipment."
"A time sharing computer was used to evaluate dielectric strength test data collected on a spring loaded and a weighted curved electrode test fixture, both of which are acceptable under the ASTM Curved Electrode Test, D1830-61T."
"Short time dc- or ac-tests are carried out on insulation in order to eliminate weak spots which otherwise would fail under service conditions. The normal electric stress in service is a low ac-voltage. In addition momentary increases of this ac-voltage, transient oscillatory and unipolar voltages must be taken into consideration."
"Degradation of polyethylene films by corona discharge has been studied by several authors.1–7 Their findings, however, are inconsistent with one another because of the many complicated factors affecting the mechanism of degradation."
"Immediately following the breakdown of a liquid dielectric a variety of dynamic events appear. Initially, a highly luminescent, thin, plasma column is formed followed by a radially expanding mechanical shock wave. In the process, a gaseous bubble composed of vaporized dielectric is created. The study described here is concerned with this bubble. Specifically, investigations were made into the effects of hydrostatic pressure upon the dynamics of the gas bubble."
"Because of the importance of performance, economy, and efficiency in today's military and industrial markets, emphasis is placed increasingly upon knowledge of the properties of materials. Insulation resistance (the reciprocal of electrical conductance) has not often been of major concern to the user of materials as the insulation resistance of a component or unit is generally several orders of magnitude greater than is required for satisfactory performance. The measurement of insulation resistance has, however, been found to be a valuable tool in materials research and quality control."
"Insulation systems for coils used in particle accelerator and associated magnets are selected to meet particular electrical and mechanical requirements. Voltage range from 6 volts to 10 kv to ground. Mechanical requirements vary with the size of the coil, magnetic forces, and the pressure required for mounting the coils on cores. In addition, many coils are exposed to radiation of various types and intensity."
"Insulated aluminum foil has proved itself superior to round and rectangular copper wire for conductors in electrical coils such as are used in distribution transformers because of its desirable electrical and thermal characteristics as well as decided economic advantages. This paper traces the development of an enamel insulating process for aluminum foil from the initial R&D laboratory work, through the pilot stages and into the beginnings of a high-speed production line. The coating process is described in detail with particular attention to the problem of insulating the edges of the foil. Quality control tests are listed."
"The rapid pace of our changing society results in continued demands for new or improved insulations. To meet these demands, insulation formulations must be revised, and occasionally entirely new insulations are needed to fit a particular application. Development of such new or revised insulations requires a high degree of skill and creativity. The obvious goal is a balance of the many properties required to satisfy the end use of the cable, but the methods or means employed to achieve this goal are far from obvious, even to the skilled insulation chemist. The selection of one or more additives may be critical in achieving the desired property; therefore, both the additives and their quantities must be chosen judiciously. Frequently new compounding techniques must be devised to insure the best blending of the ingredients. To illustrate some principles of creative insulation development, a specific example has been selected."
"Within the last few years the outdoor use of porcelain has been challenged by an increasing use of epoxy resins. Porcelains by themselves do not constitute a bushing since they are dependent on a number of hardware items other than the conductor, such as metal flanges, cap nuts, gaskets and insulating liquids. Porcelains cannot be manufactured to close tolerances and they have low impact strength."
"One of the problems of developing new insulations to fill specific applications is to determine what properties are meaningful and required to really fill the need."
"The detection of life forms that may have independently evolved on other planets (particularly Mars), is one of the scientific objectives of planetary explorations. Contamination by Earth organisms would make it hard, if not impossible, to realize such an objective. Regulations by NASA, therefore, require the sterilization of planetary landing vehicles. This requirement necessitates the selection of sterilizable components and materials. Insulating materials are used extensively on spacecraft. This paper concerns an investigation of the effects of sterilization environments on commercial polymeric insulating materials. Most of the products discussed had previous usage in non-sterilized Jet Propulsion Laboratory (JPL) spacecraft, and thus some familiarity was established with them. None were recommended by manufacturers as sterilizable products."
"A program was conducted to find an insulation suitable for 2 mil diameter cupron and tophel wire f that could operate at ∼ 470°F for a minimum of 5 years in an argon gas environment. The applied voltage on the insulation is 6 volts. The cupron and tophel wires are used as the respective “P” and “N” legs in a radioisotope powered thermoelectric generator designated SNAP-15A.‡"
"A major factor in the successful completion of missions such as Surveyor I and the various communication satellites has been the extreme care taken in the choice of the insulating materials for the electronic units on these spacecraft. Extensive evaluations and close quality control of these materials resulted in assuring a superior reliability of all the electronic devices. The need for lightweight, high density electronic packaging designs has demanded the use of a number of materials, composites, and unique processing steps not normally considered for conventional airborne and missile applications."
"A fluidized bed coating for the insulation of bus bars has been incorporated into a new design of metal enclosed switchgear. The dip-type coating process allows rather complex bus bar configurations to be uniformly coated and insulated with a newly developed epoxy-base insulating material. The switchgear design utilizes the horizontal draw-out of the breaker components from the switchgear cubicles. These cubicles, in turn, are available in factory-assembled groups of from one to five units, depending upon customer needs. Figure 1 shows a typical assembly of cubicles."
"The field emission discharged and electrical breakdown potentials are demonstrated for cellular compounds in four experiments. Three experiments demonstrate the effects of electrode spacing, variations in compound density and type, and a thermal vacuum environment on the field emission discharge? and electrical breakdown potential. The thermal vacuum analysis combines the effects of elevated temperature and low pressure with the application of a constant potential (10 kVdc). The fourth experiment demonstrates that chemical reactions leading to conductive products and compound failure do occur at the field emission discharge? potential. Experimentally, relationships are shown to exist between the electrical breakdown potential and both the electrode spacing and the compound density; the field emission discharge? potential is found to be a function of the electrode spacing, but is not defined with respect to density. The field emission discharge? level is determined to be the critical potential in compound analysis, with the electrical breakdown potential representing the results of accelerated chemical reaction (and emission discharges) caused by the increasing potential."
"Presents the title page of the proceedings record."
"Presents the copyright information for the conference. May include reprint permission information."
"Conference proceedings front matter may contain various advertisements, welcome messages, committee or program information, and other miscellaneous conference information. This may in some cases also include the cover art, table of contents, copyright statements, title-page or half title-pages, blank pages, venue maps or other general information relating to the conference that was part of the original conference proceedings."
"The conference organizers greatly appreciate the support of the various corporate sponsors listed."
"This paper traces the development of the capability for assigning P and Q values to measured spurious response data on multiple conversion receivers. Techniques which are being studied to overcome some of the inadequacies of the present capability and to simplify the collection of spurious response data are presented. Additionally the eventual transition from discrete stored data to a continuous spurious response representation is covered."
"One problem that confronts interference analysts and communication system designers is that of relating operational performance to signal and interference conditions at the input to a receiver. This paper discusses the problem of specifying performance of AM voice communication systems, defines the basic factors that contribute to receiver performance, and outlines methods that may be used to calculate operational performance of a receiver in the presence of interference. It is felt that the results of the work described in this paper will help to provide an understanding of the basic factors that contribute to operational performance, and this information may be used by interference analysts to specify performance and by system designers to develop less susceptible equipments."
"It has been suggested that since real functions must necessarily be continuous in all derivatives, perhaps the binomial pulse will permit a more realistic analysis of physical phenomena than does Fourier analysis where, typically, unrealistic rectangles, trapezoids, and their like are considered. This paper does not attempt to develop an alternate approach to spectral analysis via the binomial pulse, but instead presents the characteristics of binomial-type pulses, and discusses their usefulness. However, it is believed that a thorough understanding of the binomial pulse may lead to a better understanding of spectral theory, and possibly to a totally new approach to spectral analysis."
"Facilities are being developed for the Army to measure radar system responses -where \"system\" is taken in its largest sense to include the operator. The facilities consist of two complementary laboratories, one to video-record radar set responses to a variety of field target environments and the other to play back, with replication capability, the video to radar sets, recreating events for operator response measurements. Not only is the radar video-recorded, but all the causal environmental factors are instrumented and recorded in pulse code. Later, during playback, these varying magnitudes are gated to storage by operator responses, and together with response times constitute a statistical gathering of system input/output -cause and effect -functions. They are analyzed to yield meaningful statistical averages. The initial equipment type under study is the AN/TPS-33, which presents an A-scope target video and a noncoherent, doppler-dependent audio to operator-gated video. Since the operator interprets the targets by A-scope observation and audio monitor, measurement of his performance is within the whole class of measurements on eye and ear information retrieval. Accordingly, the laboratories are being developed with a flexibility amenable to investigation of information retrieval formats of other audio-visual information display systems."
"Current standards and specifications require that most case and cable radiation and susceptibility measurements be made in shielded enclosures. However, it is well known that there are a number of serious problems associated with performing these measurements in a shielded enclosure. This paper presents the results from a comprehensive effort to better define the problems associated with field intensity measurements in shielded enclosures and to develop measurement techniques for making satisfactory measurements. Extensive experimental data are presented to show (1) the magnitude of error that can be expected using present measurement techniques, (2) the field distribution in a shielded enclosure as a function of frequency, and (3) the coupling between a source and a probe antenna in a shielded enclosure as a function of frequency and spacing."
"The currently accepted methods of measuring interference filter performance have been a target of criticism for sometime. Since the adoption of Military Standard MIL STD-220A in 1959, relatively little workhas been done to extend the range of performance. Recently, however, the picture has changed, and is more favorable. Experimentation and refinements thereof are the basis for this report. The methods to be described in measuring filter performance under actual operating conditions provide a new tool not offered by present techniques. The advantages outweigh the disadvantages, and are promising enough to warrant further investigation."
"A solution of electromagnetic field equations with appropriate boundary conditions shows that at the surface of a material with infinite conductivity, no parallel electric field or perpendicular magnetic field exists. As conductivity decreases, there are large relative increases in the parallel electric field and perpendicular magnetic field at the surface. A reduction in permeability lowers the parallel electric field while increasing the perpendicular magnetic field. For most practical shielded enclosures of room size, the shielding effectiveness is determined largely by the quality of the seams between panels, along door edges or filter mountings. Hence this paper presents the results of an evaluation of a method developed by the government of finding faults in a shielded enclosure by detecting changes in the perpendicular component of magnetic field along the surface of the conducting wall with special emphasis concerning continuity of all types of seams of shielded enclosures."
"Most of the major EMC problem areas have been mentioned. Problems are still occurring and undoubtedly as the ship becomes older normal deterioration will generate new problems. At present the ships are undergoing a modification to include a Satellite Communication System (SATCOM) as a backup for the HF communications systems. Upon completion of the SATCOM installation an EMC evaluation will be again performed. It is evident from this paper that bonding and grounding played an important role in establishing a compatible tracking ship. A document prepared by the Navy Department titled Shipboard Bonding/Grounding Specification, will soon be released. The document contains detailed instructions on specific shipboard solutions and should prove very beneficial to those EMC engineers who are responsible for the design of future tracking ships. In the procuring and design stages of future instrumentation ship programs, it is advisable to evaluate the functions of all topside hardware in view of the actual ship's mission. In the case of the Apollo Instrumentation Ships, a significant amount of the deck hardware was installed to comply with Marine Safety Requirements and/or general shipbuilding procedures; i.e. , the safety barrier chains discussed in this paper. In future programs, if non-mission requirements might result in mission impairment, the requirements should be re-evaluated for optimum mission performance."
"The objective of the work described in this paper was to investigate techniques for reducing the electromagnetic coupling between antennas on aerospace vehicles. In earlier work a theoretical and experimental study was carried out in order to determine the coupling between two antennas, either similar or dissimilar the early part of this paper some results of this analysis are presented. In the appendix some methods are presented to show simple calculating procedures for the determination of coupling. Experimental studies were also conducted where different techniques of reducing coupling were developed and tested. Particular emphasis was placed upon the possible effect of different coupling reduction methods on the far field radiation pattern and gain of the representative antenna. Another important aspect was the bandwidth over which a particular decoupling method is effective. The analysis and measurements reported here have been made on the basis of continuous wave propagation."
"High resistivity of titanium alloys (in the vicinity of 200 μohm-cm) requires special consideration of the role of airplane structure as a current return and as an electromagnetic shield. Experimental data and supporting analysis are presented. Voltage drops due to structure currents are larger in titanium than in aluminum airplanes. Return currents in structure are distributed widely instead of being relatively concentrated. For representative skin thicknesses, magnetic field shielding effectiveness is rather insignificant even at frequencies in the ADF range. Achieving EMC in titanium airplanes will require greater than previous use of wire rather than of structure returns for susceptible circuits. To obtain a given magnetic field isolation between a source and a receptor will require greater reliance on physical separation than on intrinsic magnetic field shielding of the structural material."
"Start of the above-titled section of the conference proceedings record."
"This paper describes the digitized topographic data base, the manner in which data are acquired from the Army Map Service, and the mathematical techniques that are applied to yield a useful product for compatibility analysis purposes. Also included is the description of two computer systems which employ the data base. The first, called the Site Analysis Model, provides clear acetate overlays which yield line - of - sight coverage information about communication-electronic equipment sites when placed over appropriately scaled maps. The second, called the Power Density Model, also yields overlays. In this case, the overlays represent power density contours about selected equipment sites."
"This paper presents the results of a study undertaken to develop a general mathematical model for closely-coupled antennas which has application to radio-frequency interference prediction problems. The model to be discussed was developed to determine the power transferred between the HF antennas of a shipboard communications equipment complex. The model is not limited to this use, however, and can also be applied to co-site interference and other multiple antenna coupling studies. The particular application of the model in this study involved several different antenna types which operate over the 2 to 30 Mc frequency range. These include 28 ft. and 35 ft. whips, a vertical three-wire fan antenna, and an inclined twin three-wire fan antenna. In general, these antennas are of necessity located in close proximity to each other, and far-field assumptions are not justified for calculating antenna coupling. In these situations where the spacing between antennas is of the order of a wavelength or less, the interactions between the several antennas must be accounted for when determining the power transfer between a given pair of antennas. If the antenna environment includes nearby reflecting objects, then the interactions between these and the antennas must be taken into account. The model used in this study employs a scattering matrix method of analysis to determine the power transfer between closely-coupled antennas in a complex environment. The multiple reflections between antennas and nearby objects are thus accounted for by using this method. The analysis is performed by considering the group of antennas as a multi-port network, and the reflections occurring within the network also depend upon the impedances at the antenna ports. These impedances are therefore included in the expressions for calculating power transfer."
"Calculation of the near field antenna patterns of aperture antennas has been performed using a computer program. The analysis is based upon the semi-simulative method derived by Hu1. The uniqueness of this method is derived from the simplicity of the theoretical basis. The flexibility of this method allows the user to perform near field calculations for nearly any practical situation."
"Many computer models are in existence that are designed to predict the properties of radio signals received via skywave modes of ionospheric propagation. In general, the prime objective of these models is to optimize communication circuits rather than to analyze interference. The computer model described in this paper was developed as an interference analysis tool. The parameters which are necessary for analysis of a parabolic layer over a spherical earth are obtained from (1) predicted F2-layer ionospheric characteristics, (2) available E-layer characteristics, and (3) a recently developed quasi-empirical determination of layer semithickness. Ray-tracing equations are used to provide critical angles and hop distances for mode selection. Possible modes are identified. Losses are calculated. Experimental statistics of loss and probability of occurrence are used to provide an output directly applicable to interference analysis. Techniques employed in this model, unlike most models, provide identification of possible stable and unstable modes. In addition, the analysis is performed before antenna characteristics are considered in the overall technique. These factors and statistical considerations provide a usable HF skywave propagation model for interference analysis."
"The use of periodic rough surfaces as a tool for research in rough earth scattering problems has been investigated. All of the surfaces studied were periodic in the direction of propagation, uniform in the transverse direction and conducting. Their amplitudes and wavelengths were on the order of the wavelength in the region of interest (X-band). This paper summarizes a set of experimental measurements that were made employing such surfaces, illuminated with a beam of radiation. The surfaces were in the far-field of the antennas used."
"Using quasi-static relationships, a fairly simple derivation for the electric-to-electric-field shielding effectiveness was demonstrated. Shielding-effectiveness computations based on this simple approach appear identical to those based on a more rigorous formulation using scattering theory and numerical integration. If transient penetration is of interest, a \"circuit approach\" which characterizes the transient penetration is also possible; and results using the \"circuit approach\" reasonably approximate the transient penetrating waveform based on scattering theory."
"As indicated in electromagnetic interference (EMI) specifications, standardization of test requirements is intended to result in more uniform testing and greater repeatability. Shielded enclosure EMI measurements in the 14 KHz to 30 MHz range can be performed more uniformly and with a fair degree of repeatability if adequate precautions are observed in establishing test configurations, especially in the location of and method of connecting the vertical rod test antenna to the environmental ground plane. Experimental investigations indicate that : EMI below 30 MHz should be measured in terms of antenna induced voltage (test antenna length specified), : The test antenna separation from the major radiating element of the test sample should not be greater than one foot, : The copper bonding strap for connecting the test antenna to the environmental ground plane should not be longer than one foot and not less than one foot wide, and : Near field path loss from ordinary radiating elements can be readily measured and used for prediction purposes."
"A method of measuring the \"effective\" radio frequency interference radiated from electrical and electronic equipment is under investigation. The method* employs measurement of current in the power supply or ground leads of the interference source. It has been highly developed in France, but is little known in the United States. It has the potential advantage of simplifying the experimental setup, at least for specification testing of certain items, and of avoiding many of the common difficulties and objections to radiated measurement. The method is based upon the principle that a source of radiation, located above a conducting ground plane and acting as a unipole, will induce a current in this plane. A study of the equations for radiation from a current element indicates that if one measures the radiated electric field E, and a voltage proportional to the current induced in the ground plane, V, then the ratio of E x fwhere f is the frequency at whi , ch E and V V are measured, is independent of frequency (at least at low frequencies)."
"This paper describes a sweep frequency technique which permits rapid and accurate measurement of bond impedances over several orders of magnitude (30 milliohms to 1000 ohms) and at frequencies well into the UHF range. The technique, which is based on the insertion loss measurement principle, also provides for a visual display of impedance versus frequency. All required items of equipment are commercially available with the exception of the measurement network which is relatively simple, inexpensive and easy to construct. The details of the bond impedance measurement system are presented along with the actual measurement results which demonstrate the usefulness of the technique."
"Transmitter spectrum models are being developed for systems modulated by typical random signals such as speech. Typical random signals are described by their statistical probability functions rather than the waveform description of deterministic signals. The resulting spectral distribution of the transmitted signal is vastly different from that of a single tone signal or even a signal of multiple tones. Since the waveform of a random signal is unknown, its Fourier transform does not exist and its spectrum is unattainable by way of the conventional route used for deterministic signals. Rather, a meaningful power density spectrum is available from the Wiener-Khintchine theorem via the intermediate step of autocorrelation. Such a procedure can be used to describe voice signals, TV signals and communication signals of other types. This method has been applied to conventional amplitude, phase and frequency modulated systems, and their single sideband counterparts. It has also been used to analyze a PAM/FM telemetry system."
"An experimental study was performed to determine the relationship between mixer design characteristics and spurious product formations. The results of this study provided a basis for the development and validation of techniques for predicting the levels of mixer-generated spurious responses. Typical effects of mixer operating parameters on spurious response levels are presented, and prediction results are shown for numerous data sets on a variety of mixer types."
"This report begins by discussing general properties of matched filters and then proceeds to analyze the effect of undesired interfering signals to the performance of matched filter receivers. Attention is particularly focused on matched filters which exhibit a large time bandwidth product. For these situations, the output-signal-to-interference-power ratio is determined for any type of interfering signal. Use of the central limit theorem allows a determination of error probability whenever the product of interference bandwidth with the desired signal duration is much greater than one. In the determination of error probability, two receiver configurations have been assumed; one a completely linear receiver employing a simple threshold and the other a receiver which uses an envelope detector followed by a threshold decision mechanism."
"Current interference prediction techniques include a statistical model of the transmitter based on power output measurements obtained using a matched termination at the output coupler of the transmitter. Investigation has revealed that a matched termination is not a realistic model of transmission line-antenna systems and that substantial deviations from the power delivered to such a model occur in practice."
"The RFI susceptibility of an FBI CW receiver is determined largely by the characteristics of its mixer(s) and limiters. By modeling these critical elements, the receiver designer can gain insight into the mechanism of RFI generation. As a result the selection of system parameters can be influenced be a realistic appraisal of their influence on RFI performance. Even with such models the necessary computation can be time-consuming and tedious. Therefore, a versatile digital computer RFI simulation has been developed to handle the task."
"This paper discusses two computer-oriented subsystems, the Frequency Allocation Assistance by Computer Techniques (FAACT) System and the Input Message Analysis (IMA) System being developed to assist the Frequency Management Directorate (FMD) of the OCC-E in the accomplishment of its mission. The FAACT System provides for the storage, retrieval, evaluation and display of frequency regulations, technical characteristics, and information on previous allocations. The results of these retrievals and evaluations are displayed as required by the allocations engineer. An allocation can automatically be added to the data base as it is being processed. An executive override is provided to allow the allocations engineer to modify input data, bypass any module or to select any module of the system separately as a design tool. The IMA System is a consolidation of message analysis techniques designed to provide the capability of interpreting, processing, and encoding data from manually-completed, freely-formatted data sheets into fixed-file formats oriented to machine operation and storage. The IMA System allows man to enter data on a free-format data sheet in the terms and units with which he is accustomed. The IMA System then encodes and converts the data into a preset file format. The integration of these systems into the frequency management process allows a more efficient and mutually satisfactory use of the electromagnetic spectrum by all users."
"The techniques defined in the paper enable one to determine an index of system effectiveness for a particular deployment of a military organization in a given tactical disposition. This index will reflect with the required precision the performance of the RF communications system as related to the task of its military unit. Under certain conditions, these techniques may be extended to any communication system where questions of compatibility or vulnerability arise.. The first condition is that there exists for any link in the system a measure of the ability that the given link will perform in the required manner; that is, transmit the necessary information or provide a specific level of service quality. The second condition is that the relative importance of the various links may be assessed with a reasonable degree of accuracy. Such an index allows the rapid assessment of the effect of changes in individual elements of the system on total system performance. It is particularly helpful for changes that tend to improve some areas while degrading others."
"The basic Fourier integral is studied in terms of the maximum possible harmonic amplitudes, whether or not they actually exist. Graphs are then produced which define the pulse shapes in terms of time period, pulse width, rise time and amplitude. Rectangular, trapezoidal, triangular, and two forms of exponential wave shapes are considered. The discrete harmonic concept is further developed to include the harmonic content in a given bandwidth. This, in turn, is developed to represent single pulses and step-type functions, Experimental results are included which demonstrate the accuracy of actual measurements versus the predicted values. Very close correlation can be obtained on pulse shapes which can be represented by the waveforms cited. The appendix presents the derivation of the graphs and indicates how other wave shapes can similarly be rendered in graphical form."
"Many techniques have been proposed to solve the problem of MTI in a clutter environment. These techniques can be classified into three categories depending on the types of information processed. A coherent IF system processes the signal at IF and makes use of both the amplitude and phase information to discriminate between the target and the clutter. A coherent video processor also uses both amplitude and phase but the detection is performed after shifting to a d-c center frequency. Non-coherent processing retains only amplitude information and the detection is done at video. The purpose of this study is to evaluate the performance of the three types of processors and to compare the relative merits of each in the detection problem."
"This paper presents a new approach to the quantitative prediction of component generated noise in a physically large and complex electronic system. Specifically it outlines a graphical technique which may be used to predict with, what appears to be, a fair degree of accuracy, the levels of electromagnetic radiation expected to result from the combined effect of the many sources of noise (e. g., electronic components, subassemblies, and associated interconnections) comprising a typical large electronic system. It is intended that this paper present in a simple and \"easily digestible\" manner the basis for this prediction approach. An attempt has been made to present the material in a way that will interest a wide spectrum of readers. It is the writer' s hope that this paper will stimulate comments from the analytically minded engineer who has devoted considerable thought to prediction work in the light of field theory, as well as from the applications engineer who labors on a day by day basis with this whole area of RFI prediction."
"Those concerned with intersystem electromagnetic compatibility are vitally interested in the effect one system has upon another system in the same electromagnetic environment. One facet of the intersystem approach is to minimize spurious emissions from transmitters as an aid in minimizing spurious electromagnetic energy in the total environment. Spurious emissions from high power microwave amplifiers constitute a major source of extraneous energy in the overall environment; such spurious emissions have long been recognized as a major problem and have been minimized via the use of filters at the transmitter and/or receiver of communication-electronics systems. Klystrons are in wide use as power amplifiers for transmitters, and this paper reports the results of a design technique which decreases the harmonic output of a klystron used as a high power microwave amplifier. Harmonic signal reduction is achieved through an axially symmetric output cavity whose dimensions are adjusted in the design stage so that output cavity resonances do not coincide with the second, third, and fourth harmonic frequencies of the tube."
"This paper presents comparison of the audio-conducted and r-f radiated susceptibility threshold of several circuits, each designed to perform similar low pass filter function. Additional tests are discussed which determine the filtering limitations imposed by crosstalk and interactions existing within the basic filter circuitry."
"The design parameters were thoroughly investigated for a low-noise transistor switch capable of meeting EMI specification requirements when switching direct current. The principles used in the design of the switch were to suppress the current leading to the transistor base and to select a transistor such that the resultant amplitude spectrum of the current was within the required current probe limits. The investigation included the evaluation of transistor parameters for low-noise switching, the proper selection of filter components, and the proper placement of the components. The values for the filter components were based on the transistor gain from which the maximum tolerable amplitude spectrum of the driving voltage waveform was determined. The design parameters were matched against derived general equations which are well tabulated for general utility and are obtained by use of modern network theory where the current waveform and subsequent amplitude spectrum are derived by Laplace-Fourier transform methods."
"In pulse-time and pulse-code systems (radar, communications, navigation), a flat-top pulse envelope with relatively short duration rise and fall is desirable for high transmitter efficiency and circuit simplicity. This pulse shape is often desirable for fulfilling the system requirements such as pulse-position measurement accuracy and detection probability. However, the shortduration rise and fall lead to a broad spectrum and potential interference with other receivers; i. e., poor electromagnetic compatibility (EMC). For good EMC a confined spectrum is desired. The conflict between transmitter efficiency and spectral confinement is not the only signal design compromise involving EMC and pulse shape. Another stems from the fact that narrow bandwidth pulses, while desirable for EMC, are detrimental to pulse-time resolution and pulse-position measurement accuracy."
"The evolution of integrated circuitry and, in particular, the low cost of digital integrated circuits has affected the design procedure of digital equipments. The equipment manufacturer no longer designs logic circuitry to fit particular specifications and requirements. Instead, he chooses from the variety of logic circuit types available, depending on the performance specifications of the system to be designed. The criteria for making this choice are certain functional parameters such as power dissipation, propagation delay, and noise margin as well as cost and reliability. However, in the interest of minimizing certain EMC problems, other parameters must be considered before a choice of circuit type is made. The following paragraphs propose parameters to be considered, suggest test methods for obtaining data on these parameters, and present design recommendations for minimizing certain EMC problems."
"This paper describes a number of techniques useful in the reduction of the following RFI phenomena in reflection-type parametric amplifiers: (1) Spurious responses (Intermodulation between the pump and the signal) (2) Saturation of the amplifier by a large input signal (3) Intermodulation between two input signals (4) Cross-modulation between two input signals Spurious responses has been considered to be the most important RFI phenomenon in parametric amplifiers. Theory demonstrates the deleterious effect of spurious responses upon the gain, the gain-bandwidth product, and the noise temperature of both single-diode and balanced reflection-type paramps. Some of the RFI reduction techniques are incorporated into an experimental paramp which is called a preferred circuit. Another experimental paramp was built without many of the preferred circuit features to serve as an experimental control. Measurements were made which agreed with the theory and also provided further information about thé performance and the RFI characteristics of each amplifier. All data led to the conclusion that most preferred-circuit modifications incorporated in the experimental model not only improved the RFI characteristics of the paramp but also either improved or did not seriously harm the conventional paramp performance."
"The method of measuring the insertion loss of filters presented in this discussion overcomes all the disadvantages of previous standards. It can measure insertion loss with full rated power currents flowing, without being adversely affected by the heavy currents, and without affecting the performance of the system. It can be clamped around filters at installations without disturbing the circuits under test and thus can evaluate filters while they are working into realistic load and source terminations. All of these advantages are combined in a system that is capable of performing measurements in a short amount of time. The remaining step is to prepare a supplementary specification in which are incorporated these principles."
"Radio Frequency Interference Analysis has been one of the last measurement systems to be automated. It has previously been accomplished by laborious point-by-point data taking. Measurement of RFI, furthermore, is complicated by the use of a multiplicity of transducers, non-standard test setups, variations in specification limits, and the almost infinite variety of equipment under test which creates signal intercept problems. Automatic RFI/EMC measurement systems proposed or marketed to date have either been massive and mechanically tuned, using combinations of adapted commercial equipment, or were designed for a narrow range of uses. The FSS-250 system described in this paper is composed of instruments specifically designed for system usage, and in combination offer simplicity, compactness and a variety of uses previously unavailable."
"Current advances in the state of the art in nearly all fields of electronic technology are increasing the number of the already abundant problems in radio frequency interference (RFI). A great many of these difficulties are caused entirely by magnetic field radiation. The number of magnetic interference problems is increasing rapidly due to several factors: the increasing use of semiconductor devices in power switching applications; the trend toward miniature circuitry; and the general increase in sensitivity of new electronic systems. Many of the interfering fields are of an impulsive nature and therefore contain a wide band of frequencies. In order to attack RFI problems in specific systems the interference producing fields must be measured and their sources identified prior to producing the RFI remedy. To accomplish the measurement of broadband impulsive magnetic fields a new instrumentation approach was required."
"The transient has always been a phenomenon both difficult to detect and to analyze. This becomes quite evident when attempting to conduct a transient investigation program during a systems compatibility test. Why is it so difficult? Because numerous test points must be continuously monitored and data acquisition equipment in sufficient quantity is usually difficult to obtain. In many cases, days are required to analyze the data. To solve this dilemma a fresh approach to the problem must be made. One answer is to couple a high speed data acquisition capability with automated data analysis. This paper describes such a system."
"This paper has described the development of a wideband receiving system applicable to EMI evaluations of high data rate digital equipment. This system is composed of five subsystems; one of which has the basic configuration of a DA receiver, and the other four have the basic configuration of a NFC receiver. An analysis was performed and expressions were derived for the broadband sensitivity ((Si)M) of the two receiver configurations. These expressions were verified experimentally with a maximum difference of 3 db observed between measured and calculated values of (Si)M. The calculated receiving system broadband sensitivities are, in general , between -7 and 0 db are 1 μV/MHz. The design procedure was documented and desirable component characteristics were discussed.paper."
"The problem first confronting shielded enclosure designers is that of determining the correct type of metal to be used and its required thickness. The shielding efficiency equations that must be solved to answer this problem are at best complex and cumbersome to handle. Graphical techniques developed to date are inaccurate, time consuming, and, in general, very difficult to use. The shielding charts developed for this presentation offer a simple, rapid method for solving the shielding problem in minutes. The examples herein demonstrate the great power and scope of the charts."
"This paper explores, specifically, the effects of repeated temperature shock and of exposure to nuclear radiation on the shielding effectiveness (S) of enclosures fabricated from several common metals, incorporating several types of seam construction. This paper results from a Boeing-sponsored companion study to work performed for the U. S. Army Electronics Laboratories. It in no way purports to supply all the answers, but is presented in the hope that it may arouse sufficient interest so that unresolved questions will be thoroughly investigated."
"This paper deals with the development of shielding effectiveness tests for the test program covering the frequency range from 0.1 to 30 MHz. In addition, a relationship between these test results and the weapon's susceptibility to electromagnetic radiation under worst case conditions is established."
"This paper describes a new type of conductive foil tape with a special pressure sensitive adhesive that is itself conductive. This tape offers shielding effectiveness together with rapid and simple installation. Although only recently introduced, this tape has already found application in shielding enclosures,on stripline, as electrodes for conductive glass, for several classified uses and in RFI troubleshooting. A major advantage of this tape is that when properly applied, it provides a continuous easily removable RE seal without screws or conducting gaskets, spring fingers, soldered seams or peel strips."
"In this study the standing waves induced in the transmission system formed by the cylindrical shield of a coaxial cable and a conducting plane are examined theoretically and experimentally as a function of the shield-to-ground impedance at the end points only. Ordinarily, standing waves are, eliminated by terminating a guiding system in its characteristic impedance. In this situation, however, the exciting source (i.e., incident radiation) is distributed along the length of the transmission system."
"Presents an index of the authors whose articles are published in the conference proceedings record."
"Presents an index of the authors whose articles are published in the conference proceedings record."
"Conference proceedings front matter may contain various advertisements, welcome messages, committee or program information, and other miscellaneous conference information. This may in some cases also include the cover art, table of contents, copyright statements, title-page or half title-pages, blank pages, venue maps or other general information relating to the conference that was part of the original conference proceedings."
"Presents the table of contents/splash page of the proceedings record."
"Presents the title page of the proceedings record."
"Ionic conduction in polymers probably occurs when ionizable groups, present either intrinsically or as impurities (including water), dissociate to a fractional degree and provide a dynamic equilibrium of mobile ions. Application of an external electric field perturbs the equilibrium until a new steady state is reached; it also causes a net current to flow. Reactions at the electrodes and the concentration of ionizable sites are important."
"The electrical conductivity of a polymer, σ, in a particular direction (z) is given by σ(T, z) = Σi qi ni (T)μi(T, z), (1) where qi = charge, μi = the mobility in the z direction, and ni = the number of the charge carriers. The questions that must then be asked are: 1. How do the charge carriers move through the solid? 2. How are the charge carriers created? 3. How are the answers to 1 and 2 related to the intrinsic properties of the polymer? (See Figure 1.)"
"The definition of conductivity, σ, is indicated in Figure 1 for a sample exhibiting ohmic behavior (i.e., J ∝ E). If a sample is non-ohmic, the dependence of J on E will be quite different; e. g., J ∝ E2) for space-charge-limited current (Child's law), or J ∝ eE for collision ionization (at high E). Conductivity is considered as a product of two independent quantities: carrier concentration and mobility σ = e Σi niμi. Carrier concentration can be influenced or determined by ionizing radiation, impurities, electrolysis, or temperature. Mobility can be determined by the mass of the carrier (ions are usually slower than electrons), viscosity of the medium (for fluids), or scattering mechanisms that dissipate energy. To understand σ, then, we must understand n and μ."
"In previous work1 it was pointed out that polymeric materials behave as electrically linear systems under particular conditions, such as low field strength, and that the dielectric permittivity must have dispersion at low frequencies. Theories and models that describe conduction on a molecular scale have restraints that are set by phenomenological laws. In the investigation of the limits of particular conduction mechanisms it was found that the Cole-Cole diagram must have perpendicular intersection(s) with the real axis."
"Iodine, when absorbed in polyethylene, greatly enhances the electrical-conduction current that is observed when a direct stress is applied. Using electrolyte-solution electrodes, one or both of which contain iodine in solution, this conduction process has been investigated over a range of iodine concentrations, field strengths, and temperatures for polyethylene films of 3-mil and 5-mil thicknesses. The polyethylene film that was used was supplied free of additives and was characterized by a density of 0. 92 g/cc and an inherent viscosity of 0. 94 dl/g in Tetrolin at 135°C and a concentration of 0.1%. However, similar phenomena to those described in this report have been observed in other polyethylenes containing all the usual additives."
"This paper reports results of a study of the conductance of (n-Bu)4 NSC Ν in a 80:20 (weight) solution of polystyrene:diphenylmethane (PS:DPM) as a function of electrolyte concentration, temperature, and applied field strength."
"The residual charge is that part of the charge contained in a capacitor which does not flow out quickly when the capacitor is shorted. This phenomenon has been studied since the early 1800's, and it was pointed out by Maxwell2 that a nonhomogeneous dielectric or a multilayer dielectric consisting of materials of differing conductivities would give rise to a large residual charge because of interfacial charge-trapping. If a homogeneous dielectric such as a polymer film is converted into a capacitor by applying electrodes that make proper contact, the electrode effects are avoided, and the residual charge that is observed is found to result from the partial alignment of the dipoles of the polymer. The method of measuring the residual charge and its relation to the dipole moment are described in the following section."
"Some of the phenomena of electrical conduction in polyethylene, as observed in this study, are: voltage-current curves; temperature-dependence of conductivity; and the effect of environment on the magnitude of conductivity in air, in vacuum, and in silicone oil."
"The failure of a simple dielectric structure at voltages much lower than design expectations, and in an intolerably short operating time, presented an opportunity for this study to be made at the Lawrence Radiation Laboratory, under contract with the Atomic Energy Commission."
"In the literature dealing with dielectric properties, there is a wealth of information on the subject of dielectric-relaxation behavior of polymeric systems; however, little has appeared on the relationship between the molecular structure of polymers and their dielectric constants."
"Dielectric relaxation of mixtures of polar molecules has not been studied extensively in contrast with solutions of polar molecules in nonpolar solvents and pure polar liquids. The initial studies on dipolar mixtures by Alexandrov and Dzhian1 and Schallamach2 involved relatively complex nonrigid molecules, and the detailed interpretation of their behavior as mixtures is vitiated by their complexity. Schallamach, in his study of the temperature-dependence of mixtures of complex molecules at low temperatures of the order of −100° C and at a single radio frequency, has come to the conclusion that the dielectric relaxation in mixtures involves the disturbance of relatively large regions in the liquids, so much so that the individuality of the two members is not significant. Studies by Denney,3 on a single mixture of alkyl halides at temperatures close to the melting points of the individual components in the audio and radio-frequency regions, seem to support Schallamach's conclusion. The present investigation of mixtures of certain nitriles is a continuation of our systematic study of mixtures of simple rigid polar molecules at microwave frequecies near room temperature."
"In the past, most dielectric studies of liquids have been made only as a function of temperature. While there have been some results published on the effect of pressure on the dielectric constant of liquids,1,2 they have been of low accuracy. Therefore, a program of measurements has been undertaken for the precise measurement of the dielectric properties of liquids over a wide range of pressure and temperature."
"Eugenol, CH2 = CH1CH2· C6H6· (OCH3)(OH)1,3,4, is an aromatic alcohol, the essential element of oil of cloves. The benzene ring has, in addition to the hydroxyl group, a methoxy group and an un-saturated hydrocarbon chain (see Figure 1)."
"Equilibrium dielectric constants and densities of 3-octanol, 2-octanol, 2-methyl-3-heptanol, and 5-methyl-3-heptanol (hereafter referred to as 7;3, 7;2, 2;3, and 5;3, respectively) were measured as a function of pressure to 4 kb from about 100° to the respective freezing points. This study was undertaken in an effort to understand the nature and pressure dependence of the short-range order in these hydrogen-bonded liquids."
"When a charge carrier moves through a gas or liquid under the influence of an electric field it suffers many collisions in which there are momentum and energy transfer to the medium, such that bulk motion of the fluid results. There is also a complementary effect, in which a moving liquid couples to charge carriers and gives them a directed motion.1"
"Steady-state space-charge-limited currents in insulators have been widely studied and provide much useful information on carrier mobilities and carrier trapping. Transient measurements may be even more informative, but the general subject of transient conduction in the presence of space charge is a difficult problem to treat analytically, and no general solutions exist, although there are solutions to some particular cases.1"
"The problem of double injection into an insulator having ohmic contacts and a finite electron-hole recombination rate has been studied by Parmenter and Ruppel,1 who have given an exact solution, and also by Lampert,2 who has used physical ideas to develop flexible approximate methods that can be applied to this problem."
"It was reported in earlier dc and ac work on silicon oxide films that a maximum voltage for breakdown can be observed. The breakdown is thermal, and the voltage can be accurately calculated. This letter is a preliminary report on breakdown investigations with pulses."
"It has long been known1 that when a constant electric field is applied to an alkali halide crystal the electric current decays rapidly at first and then gradually settles to a steady value. The time constant associated with this type of polarization varies from specimen to specimen and is very sensitive to temperature, indicating that the phenomenon is associated with crystal imperfections. The effect has been extensively studied for many years, but the theory is still not in a very satisfactory state, owing to the lack of systematic results and the discrepancy of results reported by different investigators. The purpose of this paper is to examine possible mechanisms based on the experimental results being reported."
"It is presently thought that the formation of etchable tracks in dielectrics arises from secondary processes. Damage in the dielectric is produced by interactions between delta rays ejected by the passing ion and the molecules of the medium. Molecular fragments resulting from secondary interactions are more soluble than the parent molecule. Provided that sufficient fragmentation has taken place and that the etchant can pass freely down the damaged trail into the medium, an etchable track is formed. These considerations lead to a criterion of minimum dosage at a minimal diameter, limited from below by the size of the solvent complex, approximately 5 Å in diameter, and from above by electron-microscope observations that the diameter of the damaged region is less than 100 X. and may be as small as 50 Å. Further, it must be anticipated that the required dosage is of the order of the gamma-ray dose capable of producing macroscopic damage to the bulk material. These requirements are met in the present theory in which the dose of ionization energy at approximately 20 Å from the ion's path must exceed a critical value consistent with radiation-damage experiments on bulk materials."
"Organic polymeric insulation failures can occur in two main directions: One is a break in film continuity which may be caused by embrittlement due to thermal aging, hydrolysis, oxidation, electrolysis, and manufacturing defects; the other failure mechanism can be due to the change in resistivity, which can also be brought about by the chemical changes listed under embrittlement. The field of organic polymeric semiconductors illustrates this latter point of resistivity. Here, the emphasis is on the deliberate production of organic semiconductors. In the insulation field one strives to avoid the conductive state. Embrittlement, the first mechanism of failure, reduces to the point of lack of continuity of the organic insulation film. This type of failure can be illustrated by photomicrographic techniques used by metallurgists and resinographers. The technique is not new, but its application to embrittlement failures of insulation is new."
"Earlier studies of the intrinsic dielectric properties of thermosetting polymers revealed that each material exhibits a characteristic temperature (tmax) above which the dissipation factor and conductance increase rapidly.1 It has been suggested that this characteristic temperature is related to a first-order transition of the polymer. 2 In addition, it has been demonstrated that insulating materials, held at temperatures above tmax, undergo aging, as shown by irreversible changes in dielectric properties.3 The present study was undertaken to assess the effect of various atmospheres on electrical-aging characteristics and, hopefully, to gain insight on the mechanisms of insulation-aging processes."
"Until the last decade, electrostatic generators appeared to have died a natural death, despite the determined efforts of notable workers such as Felici and Trump. Application was limited to high-voltage low-current devices, for example, accelerators and x-ray machines, whose simplicity and reliability offset low power density. Interest was revived with man's entry into space, where light, efficient, high-voltage generators, capable of operating in this environment, are required. The ability to operate at high temperatures in vacuum, with a minimum of losses, made the variable-capacitance electrostatic generator a better prospect than the more conventional electromagnetic generator."
"Problems of current injection into insulators generally do not yield to exact analysis. A particularly useful approximate method for studying such problems is the method of regional approximations. This method is illustrated by applying it to several problems of one-carrier, steady-state current injection into an insulator with ohmic (reservoir) contacts. The principles of the method undoubtedly have wider application."
"Pressures have been growing for increased power transmission via underground cables, in spite of costs which may be 10 to 20 times as great as for corresponding overhead systems. To reduce these costs, the trend has been toward higher power capability through higher operating voltages. This has led to a growing concern over increasing dielectric losses and to a more careful consideration of the replacement of the widely used paper-oil insulation by other lower-dielectric-loss systems (e.g., polymer and pressurized gas). In this paper we examine the limitations on the oil-paper system for voltages above the presently used maximum of 345 kV and compare costs with a model fluid-impregnated polymer system."
"The object of this program is to measure the electrical properties of solid polymeric films in composite structures with oil. There are many routes one can take to evaluate electrical insulating materials for use, for example, in high-voltage-cable applications. You can build a cable and test it — a very expensive procedure — or you can wrap models using small-diameter rods and a limited number of wraps of tapes. Another approach is to use a uniform-field flat-film system using guarded electrodes. It is possible that accurate data can be obtained easily and inexpensively from measurements made in a uniform field."
"It is a well-known fact that when some insulants under dc voltage are subjected to a polarity reversal, the breakdown immediately after the reversal may appear at a substantially lower voltage than the breakdown without polarity reversal. Since complete discharging of the sample does not occur after the polarity reversal, the voltage due to the charges remaining in the sample will add to the reverse voltage applied and will, in effect, increase the value of maximum stress in the sample. References 1, 2, and 3 consider the transient-stress distribution at the instant of polarity reversal in a cylindrical sample of oil-paper insulation subjected to temperature gradients. In their considerations, the influence of polarization on the maximum stress occurring immediately after a rapid polarity reversal is not taken into account and, as will be indicated later, this leads to substantial errors. The purpose of this paper is to establish the electrical strength of oil-paper insulation under rapid polarity reversals, with all space charges present in the insulation taken into account."
"The damaging effects of discharges on dielectrics under alternating voltage stresses are well known, but previous work by Rogers and Skipper1 has suggested that the effect is minimal under direct stresses. This is because the discharge repetition rate in voids is low as it is controlled by the very high resistance of the healthy insulation in series with the void. In attempting to determine the effect of reversing the polarity on life of dielectric-containing artificial voids, it was observed that there were exceptions to this generalization, and under steady conditions very rapid breakdown could occur. The effect was observed with polythene film packs containing air-filled artificial voids. It is therefore of limited practical importance, but the arrangement is one that is commonly used in the laboratory as a means of assessing the discharge resistance of materials."
"It has been shown1 that the distribution of the gradient in a dielectric under dc conditions generally depends on the rate of the voltage variation. This fact has already been studied in connection with a voltage polarity reversal1,2 in extra-high-voltage dc power cables, but it can also be of importance to define a correct testing procedure for the same cables. Conversely, an analysis of the transient behavior of the dielectric may also be useful from a physical point of view, in order to get a deeper knowledge of the phenomena involved."
"Certain aspects of the general ionogram analysis problem, common to most methods of attack, are discussed as an introduction to the papers of this series. Present attainable accuracies and criteria affecting the choice of method for typical problems are discussed. This paper contains, in part, results of discussions of the URSI—CIG Subcommittee on N(h) profiles held at its meeting in London, May 1964."
"Any numerical method for inversion of the integral equation $h'(f)= \\int_{0}^{h_{R}(f)} \\mu'(f_{N}(z),f)dz$ must satisfy certain requirements in order to avoid introducing features into the true-height profile which are not indicated by the ionogram. These requirements are first investigated by considering the equation as an integral transformation of fN(z) for several model distributions. In order to satisfy the above-mentioned criteria a second-order lamination process was developed; its mathematical principles are presented in this paper and its implementation at the Institute for Telecommunication Sciences and Aeronomy is discussed in the two following papers."
"Details are given of a practical computer formulation of the solution to the ionogram real-height problem developed at the Institute for Telecommunication Sciences and Aeronomy (ITSA) by A. K. Paul. The method can make full joint or independent use of the ordinary and extraordinary group-height information available from modern high-quality radio soundings of the ionosphere. It takes advantage of the strong dependence of group height on the vertical electron-density gradient at the reflection level to provide a profile with continuous gradients; this is an important feature when applying profile data to radio ray tracing or certain aeronomical problems. Corrections for the “starting” and “valley” portions of the distribution (not directly observed on the soundings) are made by fitting simple models for these regions to portions of the ordinary and/or extraordinary echo data. The problem of numerical convergence of integrals involving the group refractive index infinity is solved by a new expression for the index in which the singular part can be integrated explicitly. The layer maximum is obtained by a parabolic extrapolation which maintains the continuity of gradient to the layer peak and which does not require an independent estimate of the critical frequency."
"A description is given of procedures developed at the Institute for Telecommunication Sciences and Aeronomy (ITSA) to permit accurate extraction of virtual-height data from ionograms in a form easily usable by digital computers. Criteria are described for identification of the significant interval limits along ionogram echo traces."
"A simple and more direct derivation of the equations used in the overlapping-polynomial analysis of ionograms is given. A set of five simultaneous equations is obtained which define the five polynomial coefficients required at each frequency. The steps involved in programming a computer to calculate these coefficients and analyze a virtual-height record are outlined. The calculation of the coefficients takes about 40 percent longer than the calculation of the coefficients for a lamination analysis using the same number of points. Since, however, the polynomial method requires only about one quarter as many points as a lamination analysis for a given accuracy, a considerable saving is achieved both in the time required for measuring the virtual heights and in the computer time required for calculating the coefficients and analyzing the records. A procedure for allowing for the presence of ionization below the nighttime F layer is also described; this includes corrections for both the low-density ionization in the E region and the finite ionization gradient at the bottom of the F layer."
"A method for obtaining N(h) profiles from h'(f) curves by the direct use of the phase refractive indices is developed for both the ordinary and extraordinary modes. The method is extended for solving the starting problem by the joint use of ordinary and extraordinary h'(f) curves and by assuming the Chebyshev expansion regarding the profile below fmin. It is pointed out that the phase height at fmin is useful for obtaining an accurate profile above fmin. The profile is assumed to be a monotonic function of height, but the method can be extended to include the profile containing a valley. The effect of the earth's magnetic field is included without a height variation, and the method neglects the effect of electron collisions."
"The relationship between the slope of an ionospheric virtual-height curve and the higher derivatives of the N(h) profile is derived and discussed. The slope is found to depend mainly on the second-height derivative at the reflection point of the probing wave. A method of ionogram analysis based upon this formulation is proposed. The appendix presents new forms of the phase refractive index and its derivatives."
"Real-height analysis of multifrequency ordinary and extraordinary virtual-height traces has been carried out at Lindau since 1956 with methods of our own design. They all take account of underlying ionization and extrapolate the real-height profile up to the peak of the layer under discussion. This extrapolation is based on observed virtual heights rather than on deduced real heights. At least second-order approximations of the profile are used here. All of the methods allow for analysis of monotonic and nonmonotonic virtual-height traces. They differ only in their final accuracy. A model method is described first; only 8 min are necessary to reduce a simple F trace. The respective real-height data have proved very useful for statistical purposes. Since 1957, very accurate and general manual methods have been in use. One and one-half hours are necessary for a full analysis of one ionogram. While these methods rely on an estimate by eye of the critical frequency of the layer of interest, the digital computer method in general use at Lindau since 1962 deduces this value too. The accuracy of this digital computer method is much better than the technical accuracy of the present ionosondes. A complete real-height analysis of one virtual-height trace, showing a critical frequency of 16 MHz, amounts to about 14 min of computer time (IBM 650). Test results on a series of theoretical ionograms of monotonic and more or less complicated nonmonotonic electron density-height profiles, valley profiles, are also reported."
"The “ten-point” manual method of ionogram reduction provides true heights at selected frequencies. The method is especially convenient when only the height of maximum density is required, but it can also be used to obtain the complete profile. A single true height is obtained as the average of ten virtual heights sampled at fixed submultiples of the frequency. The sampling points, which depend on the geomagnetic parameters, may be rapidly selected by using the appropriate transparent overlay. A correction for underlying ionization may be incorporated by reading one virtual height from the extraordinary trace."
"Two extensions of the basic polynomial analysis are described. Firstly the polynomial representation of the real-height curve is modified to include a parabolic peak; this greatly increases the accuracy of calculations near the peak of the ionospheric layers. Secondly the analytic expression for the real-height curve is used to obtain expressions for the height of the peak (hm) and the scale height at the peak (H). Integration of the real-height curve also gives an expression for the effective subpeak thickness of the ionosphere (T), defined as the total amount of ionization below the peak divided by the density at the peak. These three expressions are then used to obtain coefficients relating hm, H, and T to the virtual heights at any required frequencies. Eighty-four sets of coefficients are given for analyzing h'(f) records taken anywhere in the world, with critical frequencies between 1.5 and 20 MHz. These coefficients give the values of hm, H, T, and the real heights of reflection directly in terms of the virtual heights at five or six different frequencies. For calculations on a single ionospheric layer the accuracy is extremely high, being equivalent to that obtained with a lamination analysis using more than 50 points. For calculations on the daytime F layer, coefficients are provided with alternative sampling points chosen to reduce the effects of the E and F1 layer cusps, so that the height, scale height, and total content of the F layer can be determined with an accuracy equivalent to a lamination analysis using more than 20 points. Finally, coefficients including an extraordinary-ray correction for the underlying ionization are given, to enable accurate calculations for the nighttime F layer."
"Results from the Institute for Telecommunication Sciences and Aeronomy (ITSA) synoptic surveys of ionospheric morphology by systematic calculation of large numbers of electron-density profiles are described. Averages of individual hourly profiles provide a quantitative measure of the day-to-day variability of the ionosphere in addition to much information concerning average ionospheric structure. The average profiles can also be obtained from a “composite virtual-height curve” representing all of the observations at a given hour in a month. It is shown that these two ways of obtaining averages are equivalently useful for survey purposes. Observations from five years of profile calculations using both systems illustrate the decrease of F-region electron content, height of peak density, and characteristic thickness with decreasing solar flux in a 12-month running average."
"A method is presented by which profile parameters of the F region may be obtained from the ionogram measurements systematically collected and published by the world ionosonde network. The graphical procedures allow for the effect of the earth's magnetic field, and correct for underlying layers."
"A group of mathematical ionospheric models are defined and given numerically together with precisely calculated virtual heights. The models are intended to permit decisive tests and intercomparison of N(h) methods."
"No abstract is available."
"The far field produced by an arbitrary monofrequency source in a compressible magnetoplasma is expressed in terms of the modal plane waves in that medium. The field ϕ is made up of the electromagnetic field and the velocity-pressure field of the electrons. Its sources may include, besides electric and magnetic currents, forces acting on the electrons and sources of electrons. A modal plane wave ϕk satisfies the source-free wave equation and at a given frequency ω is determined, except for a factor, by its wave vector k. The extremity of k lies on a dispersion surface Gω depending on the frequency. The far field at point x is represented by $\\frac {1}{r} \\Sigma a(k)\\varphi_{k}$ where the wave vectors k are such that the outward normal to Gω at point k is in the direction of x. The ϕk being chosen to have unit energy flow vectors, the coefficients α(k) are simply related to the geometrical properties of the surface Gω and to the Fourier transform of the sources on that surface."
"Rigorous generic integral solutions for the fields radiated by phased-line distributions of electric or magnetic currents in the presence of two arbitrarily anisotropic half spaces are evaluated asymptotically by the saddle-point technique. The resulting field constituents are shown to be interpretable invariantly as geometric-optical (incident, reflected, and refracted) and diffracted (lateral-wave) contributions. These fields are then derived directly from ray-optical arguments, thereby providing a justification for this procedure without intervention of the rigorous formulation. Because of the general validity of ray-optical concepts in connection with asymptotic solutions in the far zone, use of ray techniques is then advocated also for more complicated configurations which are not amenable to rigorous analysis."
"Based on a rigorous integral representation, the far fields radiated by an electromagnetic point source in the presence of a planar interface between two arbitrary homogeneous, lossless, anisotropic half spaces are evaluated. An invariant ray-optical interpretation is given to the stationary-point contributions (direct, reflected, or transmitted rays) and to the branch-curve contributions (lateral rays) to the asymptotic evaluation. The invariant form of the results highlights the local character of the ray-optical fields and permits one to postulate a generalization of the ray-optical method of analysis to the problem of reflection and transmission at a gently curved interface, which is generally not amenable to a rigorous analysis."
"Transient radiation from an infinitesimal dipole in a uniaxial plasma medium is examined for the signal frequency ω0 greater, as well as less than, the plasma frequency ωp. The propagation of the main signal is calculated along different angular directions as functions of radial distance, and time. It is found that, as a consequence of the anisotropy of the medium, the geometry of the “wavefront” may deviate considerably from a spherical surface. For X = (ωp/ω0)2 < 1, the signal travels further along the magnetic axis than in the direction transverse to this axis. A much more pronounced effect occurs for X > 1, as the “wavefront” becomes four leaved. These correspond to non-overlapping regions where the signal is either strictly propagating or strictly evanescent. For a given time there is also a dark region separating these two where no signal has reached. Of particular interest is the result that the critical characteristic bicones where the fields become infinite in the steady-state analysis always remain in the dark region. This dark region narrows to zero only in the limit of t → ∞. These results shed new light on the so-called “infinity-catastrophe” problem which has become a subject of much controversy in recent years. The results of the present study suggest the desirability of a more realistic model for the medium which will include finite losses."
"An exact solution of Maxwell's equations is given for the problem of a magnetic line source parallel to the axis of a perfectly conducting cylinder in an inhomogeneous uniaxial medium of infinite extent. The inhomogeneity is due to the curvature of the lines of force of the static magnetic field responsible for the anistropy of the medium. These lines of force are taken to be concentric with the cylinder. The exact solution is transformed, for frequencies above the plasma frequency and for large cylinder radius, to a more rapidly convergent form which is given a geometric interpretation. This geometric interpretation can then be used to obtain approximate solutions when the magnetic field and the scatterer are more complicated and do not admit an exact solution of Maxwell's equations."
"In this article it is shown that a rotationally symmetric potential can be derived in a uniaxially anisotropic medium whose optical axis is parallel to the axis of symmetry of a rotational boundary. The medium can be homogeneous or piece-wise homogeneous, i.e., stratified or inhomogeneous where the inhomogeneity is along the axis of symmetry. It is further shown that a scaled Neumann problem can be formulated. Scaling can be extended for proper complex anisotropies. As an example, the scattered field of a dipole above and alined with the axis of symmetry of a conducting prolate spheroid immersed in a uniaxially anisotropic, homogeneous medium whose optical axis is parallel to the axis of symmetry of the boundary, is discussed. A special case of this problem is the field of a dipole scattered by a conducting disc perpendicular to the dipole."
"An integral equation for the tangential electric field excited in a slit by an H-polarized plane wave in a gyrotropic medium, such as a magnetized plasma, is solved for a wide slit by a modification of the Wiener-Hopf technique. The slit edges are parallel to the gyrotropic axis and normal to the otherwise arbitrary direction of incidence. Calculations for normal incidence on a slit with kα = 4 and 8, where k is the propagation constant in the medium and 2α is the slit width, show that the field becomes less uniform in both amplitude and phase with increasing anisotropy, demonstrating that the uniform field assumption used by some workers is invalid with appreciable anisotropy. The asymptotic form of this solution agrees with that obtained by geometrical diffraction theory, verifying earlier work based on this approach and providing a simple expression for the aperture field in slits of more than about two wavelengths in the medium."
"The problem of electromagnetic plane wave scattering from a plasma-coated, conducting, circular cylinder is considered. Both the TE and TM modes of polarization (with respect to the cylinder axis) are used. Numerical results are given for the back-scattering cross section per unit length of the cylinder for normal incidence with the TE mode of incidence. In addition to evaluating this cross section with the use of the general model of a compressible, anisotropic plasma for the sheath, several simpler models are also used and evaluated numerically. When compressible models are used, two different boundary conditions, the rigid and the soft boundaries, are used at the plasma-air interface. The results of these calculations are then compared. The results indicate that when the soft boundary is used, only a slight degree of coupling between the electromagnetic mode and the pressure mode is obtained. A much greater degree of coupling is obtained with the use of the rigid boundary."
"Reflection, transmission, and absorption coefficients for oblique electromagnetic waves with parallel polarization incident on a warm plasma slab with a static magnetic field normal to its boundary, are studied. The effect of variation in the angle of incidence, the static magnetic field, the slab width, the plasma temperature, and the collision frequency on the various coefficients is shown graphically. It is found that the transmission coefficient increases with an increase in the plasma temperature. A change in the magnetostatic field strength decreases the transmission coefficient in one frequency region while it increases it in the other. For wave frequencies greater than cyclotron frequency, a sharp cutoff phenomenon occurs in the reflection coefficient at some angle. The absorption coefficient is found to be greater for larger slab-width, except at a small frequency region where it shows oscillations."
"The reflection of both right-hand and left-hand circularly polarized plane electromagnetic waves normally incident along the direction of an imposed static magnetic field in an anisotropic plasma, has been investigated. Detailed measurements at a frequency of 9.2 Gc of the intensity and phase of the wave reflected from a helium afterglow plasma Over wide ranges of plasma frequency and electron-cyclotron frequency were carried out. The measured reflected power varied from less than 1 percent of the incident power to complete reflection, and large undulations in both intensity and phase of the reflected wave with changing electron density and magnetic field were observed. Comparison with theory based on a simple sharply bounded uniform plasma slab shows good agreement for the general nature of the dependence of the reflected wave on the plasma properties. The exact electron densities corresponding to the maxima and minima and the absolute values of the intensity and phase of the reflected wave are not accurately predicted by this simple theoretical model. In the region of the electron-cyclotron frequency, for an incident right-hand circularly polarized wave, the reflected signal undergoes a reduced variation in phase, and the intensity, after attaining a maximum, is observed to decrease with increasing electron density."
"A previous paper, part I, presented the basic theory of propagation in nonuniform gyrotropic media in terms of an £ and H mode representation. The representation results in a type of coupling that is independent of the rate of variation in the medium and thereby permits the study of regions with strong inhomogeneities along the gyrotropic axis. The coupling between modes arises due to the deviation of the gyromagnetic parameter $Y = \\frac {\\omega_{c}}{\\omega}$ from zero and infinite values. Part I provided solutions for models with Y > 1. In this presentation, details will be given for the Y < 1 case which is pertinent for propagation in the ionosphere at medium and higher frequencies. An iterative expansion procedure is employed, as previously, and some general properties are deduced from the solutions. The analysis is applied to the evaluation of the far field radiated by an electric current element exterior to a parabolic electron density layer. These results are applicable to the study of propagation through an ionospheric layer or an ionospheric irregularity."
"In coupled-mode theory the wave field in a stratified anisotropic medium appears decomposed into modes, which are coupled in accordance with a set of coupled wave equations. The modes can be defined in various ways. In the conventional formulation they correspond to waves in a homogeneous magnetoionic medium; the present theory uses modes of vacuum propagation characteristics. The coupled wave equations for these vacuum modes have a fairly simple form. The effect of the medium appears in the coupling matrix, whose elements contain a number of terms depending on the various parameters of the medium. The coupled wave equations, originally obtained from a study of partial reflection at differential slabs of the medium, are now derived in two different ways, both rather direct. In one derivation the vector potential is split into ascending and descending parts. The other derivation adheres to the matrix formalism of the conventional coupling theory as far as possible, thus indicating the essential deviations from the conventional theory. The vertical energy flux densities of the modes are expressed in terms of the field quantities used."
"Various definitions of wave modes can be used to decompose the field of electromagnetic waves in a stratified magnetoionic medium. Magnetoionic modes corresponding to a homogeneous medium of the local characteristics are a very common, though arbitrary choice. They are not necessarily practical for computation or interpretation in all situations. This paper deals with Poeverlein's modes which have the characteristics of waves propagating in vacuum. His modes represent the waves that would be obtained in an extremely narrow vacuum gap introduced at the point under consideration. The formalism is demonstrated and compared with conventional coupled-wave theory in the simple case of vertical propagation in a horizontally stratified isotropic medium. The numerical solution of the general vacuum-mode wave equations is discussed for oblique incidence on a horizontally stratified, anisotropic medium with arbitrary orientation of the magnetic field. Particular attention is paid to the problem of numerical swamping. A method is developed for dealing with the swamping phenomenon, which emphasizes the physical aspects of this computational problem.2 Computations were made on a realistic ionospheric model at 16 kHz. The results obtained are compared with other authors' results for the same profile."
"A biorthogonality relation is presented between the eigenfunctions of the operator representing the linearized anisotropic multifluid description of a cylindrical warm plasma and the eigenfunctions of the corresponding adjoint operator. This biorthogonality relation is used to describe the solution to the plasma equations when the plasma is excited by general sources, as well as to decompose a known solution into the appropriate eigenfunction expansion."
"The mode matching technique is employed frequently in formulating discontinuity problems in isotropic waveguides. An example of this procedure appears in the work of Hurd and Gruenberg who have solved the problem of a bifurcated waveguide. They derive two doubly infinite sets of equations by using the continuity of the interface electrical and magnetic fields, respectively. The final equation for the large waveguide mode coefficients is obtained by subsequent elimination of the unknown mode coefficients of the smaller guides from the first two sets. A key step in this two-step method of formulation involves the Fourier analysis of the fields using orthogonal mode functions as the basis. In the anisotropic version of the same problem, which is considered in this paper, it is observed that the conventional procedure does not lead to a convenient form. This is a consequence of the fact that the anisotropic guide modes are no longer orthogonal. It is shown that by using biorthogonality relationships introduced by Bresler and others, it is possible to derive a set of equations in the desirable form for the anisotropic case as well. An interesting observation about the procedure is that the matching of interface tangential electric and magnetic fields is carried out in a simultaneous manner, and hence, the final equations are obtained in a one-step process as opposed to the two-step procedure conventionally followed in the isotropic case. The paper discusses the solution of the infinite set of equations appropriate to the anisotropic case and compares it with the Wiener-Hopf solution derived elsewhere."
"No abstract is available."
"Measurements of the field intensity of VLF transmissions from NPM at 19.8 kHz were made at four fixed ground sites located in Bechuanaland, Africa, during July and August 1963. The sites were in the vicinity of the antipode of the transmitter in Hawaii. Each site employed both a vertical whip and a vertical, rotating loop antenna. The data indicate that a standing-wave interference pattern is present in the antipodal region most of the time. During local sunrise and sunset, such a pattern appears to be absent and the signal appears to be received primarily from one general direction. Oscillations of 1- to 2-hr periods in the diurnal amplitude data are explained as being due to interference of signals arriving from various direction, with phase changes associated with changes of the terminator position along the paths. The difference between east-to-west (E-W) and west-to-east (W-E) attenuation rates for the first waveguide mode is examined. A value of about 0.6 dB/Mm is consistent with the observations."
"Some particular solutions have been reported for the mode structure and eigenvalues of cavities partly filled with ferrite. Further results are presented for the general mode structure and eigenvalues for circularly cylindrical cavities partly or completely filled with ferrite magnetized in the axial direction. Numerical results and representations are given for some typical cases."
"Propagation of an electromagnetic groundwave over a plane surface in which the argument of the surface impedance is greater than Π/4 but less than Π/2 is considered in some detail. The numerical distance, p, over such a surface is characterized by 0 ⩽ arg p ⩽ Π/2. The groundwave behaves in a peculiar manner, and this is attributed to the interaction of two phasor components representing a trapped wave and a Norton surface wave. Approximate expressions are derived which determine the magnitude and phase of the groundwave attenuation function when these two waves are inphase and antiphase. A method is also given for estimating the asymptotic phase for large |p| which was previously not possible except through detailed calculations. Finally, detailed curves are presented which show the amplitude and phase of the groundwave attenuation function versus p."
"A coupled multimode analysis technique is applied to a model of the earth-ionosphere cavity at ELF in which the ionosphere is replaced by a thin, anisotropic shell. The unique feature of the analysis is that it is capable of illustrating the effects of a dipolar form of geomagnetic field. Numerical values of the cavity resonant frequencies and quality factors for several values of electron density and collision frequency are presented for both a homogeneous and a dipolar magnetic field configuration. The main purpose of the paper is to demonstrate that a coupled multimode analysis is applicable to such nonsymmetrical configurations."
"The utilization of refractive index surfaces in conjunction with the Clemmow, Mullaly, Allis (CMA) diagram greatly simplifies the determination of the regions of Cerenkov radiation and the types of waves emitted in a cold, collisionless, electron magnetoplasma. Also, the physical insight gained by this approach is used to explain the qualitative behavior of the power spectrum."
"A distribution of current across the elements corresponding to the optimum condition is given as a solution of the characteristic equation Ba = λCa where B and C are matrices whose elements depend on the type of sources and their spacings. The value “a” is a column matrix whose elements define the array excitation. The beam efficiency or gain of a nonuniformly spaced array is increased over that of a uniformly spaced array. To find the element positions, one first finds the direction, known as the direction of steepest descent, of maximum change in the largest characteristic value; the direction is given as grad λ, where the partial derivatives are taken with respect to the element positions. By proceeding in the direction of steepest descent, one will arrive at the point located in the element position space that represents the optimum spacings. Perturbation methods are also used to show how the beam efficiency or gain is increased by nonuniformly spacing the elements."
"A theory of nonuniform arrays based upon the classical moment problem is developed in this paper. We suppose that a given pattern can be represented as a Fourier-Stieltjes transform of a cumulative current distribution over a finite (normalized) aperture interval, which we then approximate by a step-function distribution whose “treads and risers” are determined as follows. The moments of the step-distribution are equated to the moments of the continuous distribution belonging to the given pattern, producing a set of nonlinear equations for the positions (treads) and amplitudes (risers) of the steps. The former turn out to be roots of an orthogonal polynomial, of degree equal to number of array elements, belonging to the (continuous) cumulative distribution; the latter can then be found from a resulting set of linear equations and are the so-called Christoffel numbers. An equivalent development, which helps to illuminate the basic ideas, is to approximate the kernel of the Fourier-Stieltjes transform by a Lagrange interpolation polynomial. Both of these approaches will produce, in general, an array factor with both nonuniform spacings and amplitudes, and will be said to be optimum in a moment sense: i.e., the original distribution and its approximation agree in their first 2M moments if M is the number of elements used for the approximation. The equivalence of the moment and interpolation methods implies a mean-sguare minimality for the polynomial factor of an error representation for the latter method. But the remaining factor of the error representation involves a parameter which cannot in general be determined explicitly; this error form is therefore of little use for large apertures (compared to the number of elements involved). Practical application of moment synthesis would therefore have to rely for an error assessment largely upon either statistical estimation or pattern computation. These facts notwithstanding, the moment method can be used to produce remarkable pattern approximations in the near main-beam region, and, if the number of elements is sufficiently large, acceptable pattern behavior everywhere. Its chief drawback is that a large number of elements requires the computation of zeros of a correspondingly large degree polynomial."
"The general problem of electromagnetic wave scattering by thin inhomogeneous circular cylinders is completely formulated. An integral equation for the induced axial current distribution is derived and solved for an incident plane wave of arbitrary direction of propagation. A knowledge of this induced current allows the determination of the scattered fields as well as the scattering cross section. For convenience the conductivity is only considered to vary axially. Numerical results are presented for the induced axial current and scattering cross section. An important application of this work is in missile vulnerability studies. To this end numerical results are presented for a missile having an ionized exhaust trail. The conductivity of the exhaust trail is considered to taper exponentially along its axis."
"An HF backscatter radar system is simulated by a digital computer method which includes the detailed influence of the ionosphere through use of precomputed rays. To insure a fairly realistic simulation, allowance is made for the following factors: a spherical earth and ionosphere, electron density variations with height and range, absorption which varies with range and ray angle, antenna gain as a function of azimuth and elevation, ground scattering and specular reflection characteristics which vary with range and angle of incidence, and the transmitted pulse shape. The main approximations are (a) that ray theory is used with the assumption that most energy is distributed uniformly between closely spaced ray paths, and (b) that the effect of the geomagnetic field on ray-path range and transit time is neglected. This computer simulation has two main applications. First, it permits the study of idealized backscatter problems by controlled variation of one parameter at a time. For example, a localized irregularity may be inserted in the ionosphere and the backscatter can be calculated with and without it. Second, it is possible to match experimental backscatter with synthetic backscatter for the purpose of evaluating the ground-scatter coefficient or estimating the existing ionospheric structure. This process requires carefully calibrated experimental data because the comparison must be quantitative. Some early results of this work are shown."
"A method is presented for computing the field of a vertical electric dipole over a homogeneous conducting half space coated with an anisotropic conducting slab. The asymptotic form of the solution indicates that the field varies essentially as an inverse square of the horizontal range. The results have application to HF radio propagation over smooth terrain with dense vegetation."
"The viability and effectiveness of URSI, which have brought us together once again, we enjoy only because of the dedicated efforts of men such as John Howard Dellinger—men who have gone before us, seeking more effective ways to achieve our purposes, preventing us from becoming engulfed by uncontrolled growth while still being responsive to the changing needs of our science, and especially to the needs of the young men entering our field."
"No abstract is available."
"It is shown that some of the general coupled electromagnetic modes in a large dielectric cylinder are of a whispering-gallery type. These have the property that their energy is mainly confined to the region near the boundary. When the axial wave number h is greater than the external wave number k2, these modes are shown to be unattenuated. However, if h is less than k2 the modes are leaky. Approximate expressions are derived for the circumferential, phase velocity of these spiraling-type whispering gallery modes."
"The Maxwell-Euler equations are reformulated through linear operator and generalized transform techniques into an equivalent matrix integral equation. The dispersion relation is obtained from the kernel of this integral equation for a homogeneous, anistropic, and compressible electron-fluid plasma. Some illuminating graphs showing the propagation constants as functions of the normalized plasma frequency are developed analytically to study the dispersion relation. These kinds of graphs are usually plotted from the limited amount of numerical data available in the literature (e.g., Ginzburg, 1961). Clemmow-Mullaly-Allis type of diagram for the compressible plasma is sketched from these graphs. Actually, dispersion curves are obtained which are inversely related to the wave normal surfaces calculated by Allis, Buchsbaum and Bers (1963). A proper terminology for the three types of waves involved in an electron plasma is also introduced."
"The situation in which the internal conductor of a coaxial transmission line projects through a ground-plane without any change in diameter is analyzed with reference to the infinite antenna and the parallel-plate antenna. An experimentally meaningful value of the admittance which takes into account the geometry of the antenna-to-coaxial line junction is obtained. This is achieved by utilizing a mathematical model in which an annular aperture or “gap” is represented by a frill of of magnetic current. The field distribution in the aperture is assumed to be of the same form as the TEM mode alone in the coaxial line. It is shown that the effect on the admittance of neglecting the TM modes in the line at the aperture, is very small. In the case of the parallel-plate antenna, the theoretical results are shown to agree remarkably well with experiment. It is also shown how the theory may be applied to the problem of finite length cylindrical antennas."
"The problem of a thick cylindrical antenna driven by a delta-function generator is investigated. Numerical solutions are obtained for two different mathematical models: one is driven by a delta-function generator on both outside and inside surfaces of the antenna, and another is driven only on the outside surface. In both cases, the current singularity near the driven point has been taken care of and subsequently subtracted out, before the numerical solution is applied. For antennas with circumferences less than a free-space wavelength, the results are compared with the experimental data. For antennas with larger radii, no experimental data are yet available."
"The growing importance of electrically thick monopole antennas has suggested a re-examination of the model used in the derivation of the integral equation for the current in tubular antennas. It is shown that when such an antenna is driven from a coaxial line in the usual manner, which maintains a field along a narrow circumferential region on the outside surface of the tube (instead of along both the inner and outer surfaces), an additional term is required in the integral equation. This is negligible when the antenna is electrically thin, but of major importance when it is not. A quantitative comparison of conductances is provided over a wide range of thickness."
"An open-ended iterative technique is presented for solving a Fredholm integral equation of the second kind having a singular kernel, using a digital computer. To ascertain the accuracy of the solution, the original equation is recast analytically into a Fredholm integral equation of the first kind. The unknown function is then obtained by expanding it into a series of orthogonal functions and determining the unknown coefficients by inverting the infinite matrix (truncated at the desired order) using machine methods. The numerical results obtained from the two procedures are in complete agreement. This implies that a definitive solution of the integral equation is obtained. The problem chosen for solution in this paper arises in connection with the determination of the current distribution along a perfectly conducting open-ended cylindrical tube that is sufficiently thin so that the phase change of the plane wave exciting electromagnetic field across its diameter may be neglected. A solution for the current that converges is obtained because the structure is driven by the field along its entire length — not at some discrete point by a slice generator, as is the case in the usual theoretical model of the linear transmitting antenna. Curves for the current distribution along the structure for parallel incidence of the electric field are given. Also, the radar cross sections of several tubes for the same field orientation are determined."
"A wire is run very close to the surface of a highly conducting cylinder and parallel to its axis. The cylinder is longer and of much larger radius than the wire. Arbitrary values of impedance are connected between the ends of the wire and the cylinder. One objective of this study is to develop formulas for the currents in the load impedances when the transmission line formed by the wire and its image is driven by the nonuniform field consisting of the superposition of the incident plane-wave field and the backscattered field from the cylinder. A second objective is to obtain formulas for the load currents in the terminating impedances of a transmission-line loop oriented parallel to and in the near-zone field of the cylinder. Coupling to the image two-wire line is taken into account. Since the theory depends fundamentally on the field very close to an unloaded cylindrical receiving antenna of moderate diameter, a portion of the paper is devoted to a short-cut procedure for obtaining expressions for this field which satisfy the boundary conditions. A brief tabulation of integral values required in the theory is supplied."
"The electric and magnetic field components produced by vertical and horizontal dipole antennas (both electric and magnetic types) located at or above the surface of a semi-infinite conducting medium are derived and presented for the quasi-static range. The horizontal separation between the transmitting and receiving dipole antennas (ρ) is assumed to be much greater than their heights (h and z, respectively). These derivations are the result of applying the quasi-static approximation to the basic Sommerfeld integrals, utilizing the reciprocity theorem and expanding the exponential term involving the antenna heights in a power series. When ρ is much greater than an earth skin depth (δ), ρ ≪ δ, or h = z = o+, the formulas for the field-component expressions reduce to previously derived results. Some numerical values for these expressions are also provided."
"Spherical and cylindrical dipole fields and the equipotential lines orthogonal to the lines of flux are described here in terms of various parameters. Differential distances along and across the lines of flux are derived. The “breathing balloon” concept is introduced by using a method of increasing the shell parameter L by an increment ΔL. The different parameters describing the dipole field are given in a concise form."
"This digest presents, in part, graphical solutions for the electric field in the far-diffraction region when radio waves are diffracted over a homogeneous spherical earth with a ridge or a cliff in the radio path. More complete details for this method of calculation were recently published by this author."
"A six-stage nomogram is presented for determining the refraction of a radio wave entering the earth's atmosphere in terms of surface meteorological conditions and the apparent elevation angle of the incoming wave."
"No abstract is available."
"Numerical results are presented which describe the statistics of scattered signals observed with an interferometer. The ratio of nonscattered to scattered flux and the wavefront autocorrelation are related to the distributions and average characteristics of real amplitude product and phase difference. It is shown how a combination of pure amplitude and phase-dominated information can yield unique solutions for the two wavefront parameters without a priori information concerning them. The treatment is based on assumption of a randomly phased angular spectrum."
"The problem of estimating the number of unresolvable targets in a close configuration producing a single radar return is investigated by analyzing the slow fluctuations of the received signal. It is assumed that the targets have identical statistical properties. If nothing is known about the scattering cross section S of a single target, the problem is shown to have no unique solution. Solutions are given for the case when the mean of S is known, when only the type of distribution of S is known, and when the correlation function of the random process S(t) is known. Verification of the results by computer simulation is reported."
"Wave propagation in a random medium with inhomogeneous background is studied. The medium is assumed to be characterized by a dielectric permittivity ∊0(x) + ∊1(x) where ∊0(x) is a function of space and ∊1(x) is a random function of position. With ionospheric propagation application in mind, the background medium is taken as an inhomogeneous plasma region with electron density varying as a function of z. A slab of random irregularities is assumed to be imbedded in the plasma. Fluctuations and correlation functions of spherical waves propagating through this medium are calculated using W.K.B. and pertubation techniques. They are compared with the results obtained for the case where the background medium is homogeneous. It is found that the corrections to the fluctuations due to the inhomogeneous background are maximum when the irregularity slab is at the peak of the electron density profile. From this result, it is believed that scintillations of radio signals from satellites are more easily observable when the irregularities are near the peak of the ionosphere electron density profile."
"This paper sets out to develop a vector field theory of time-dependent backscatter from a large target and shows how the cross-polarization of the return signal follows as a natural consequence of certain spatial asymmetry of the target with respect to the illuminating source. It presents an analysis of radar backscattered power from a distant, slightly rough sphere for both pulsed and sinusoidally steady-state sources. At first, an integral expression for the received power is developed for an arbitrarily rough sphere. Then the height deviation from the mean sphere is specialized to have a bivariate Gaussian distribution and a Gaussian correlation function. The average direct- and cross-polarized received powers are derived for both the pulsed and the steady-state cases. Numerical results are computed for the case of a very slightly rough sphere for which σ/δ is of the order of 10−4 and presented in contrast with experimental data from a target with a much larger scale roughness, namely the moon. (In this paper σ represents the standard deviation of heights and δ is the correlation distance.)"
"The reflection coefficient of a plane monochromatic electromagnetic wave incident on an idealized laminar plane stratified jet stream is determined. This is accomplished by applying die principle of invariant imbedding to derive a differential equation for the reflection coefficient. The differential equation which is of the Riccati type is solved approximately for the case of a jet stream with a parabolic velocity profile."
"The influence of a finite ground plane on the field of a raised electric dipole is considered from an analytical standpoint. The method for evaluating the integrals is discussed briefly and some asymptotic results are given which illustrate the limiting behavior for ground screens of large diameter. It is shown that the resulting pattern may be crudely interpreted in terms of the direct radiation of the source dipole, its image in an infinite ground plane, and contributions from the edges of the ground screen."
"No abstract is available."
"Further investigations are made into the forms of the coupled equations that govern the propagation of electroacoustic waves in an isotropic, stratified, compressible plasma. First-order equations are considered in a more suitable notation than hitherto, and then the embedded form and the second-order forms are derived that are valid throughout domains containing certain reflection and coupling points. Limitations of the W.K.B. solutions are pointed out, thereby correcting rather extravagant claims that have been made previously."
"The scattering of transverse electric (TE; Ez = 0) and transverse magnetic (TM; Hz = 0) plane waves from a perfectly conducting cylinder located in a warm (compressible) plasma is considered. Numerical values for the total primary cross sections (TE—TE and TM—TM scattering) are given. Results for the ratios of the total conversion cross sections (TE—TM, TM—TE, TE-electrokinetic (EK) and TM—EK scattering) to the corresponding primary cross section are also presented. The effect of varying the cylinder radius, plasma frequency, electron temperature, and angle of incidence are shown. A comparison is also made of results obtained from a vacuum-sheath model with those due to a more realistic inhomogeneous sheath model. It is found that, except for near-grazing angles of incidence, for cylinder radii much Tess than the EM wavelength or the plasma frequency nearly equal to the incident wave frequency, the conversion cross sections are on the order of 10−2 or less of the primary cross sections. The primary cross sections are, at the same time, not appreciably affected by the sheath or nonzero temperature."
"The power flow from a short linear current element is computed by integrating the Poynting's vector over concentric cylindrical surfaces of various radii ρ. An effective antenna resistance is defined as the ratio between the integrated power flow and the mean square source current. In a lossless medium the integrated power flow is independent of ρ, and the conventional expression is obtained for the radiation resistance. In a slightly iossy medium, and at moderate distances ρ the effective resistance R remains unaltered for frequencies ω above the plasma frequency ωp. For ω < ωp, a simple asymptotic approximation shows that R which is inversely proportional to the antenna length ℓ for ρ small is gradually changed to R ∼ ℓ2/ ρ3 with increasing values of ρ. There is an optimum antenna length ℓ ∼ ρ which maximizes the power flow for this value of ρ. For very large distances from the source the power flow is proportional to ℓ2/ρ4 and it remains of the same form for frequencies above and below the plasma frequency."
"The admittance of an infinite cylindrical antenna is calculated as a function of exciting frequency and exciting gap thickness. The results obtained show that an asymptotic analytical expression derived for the susceptance by Chen and Keller and also later by Fante, is strictly valid only in the limit of vanishing gap thickness. An altenate analytical form is presented for the susceptance, which removes this restriction and which gives good agreement with the correct susceptance values obtained in this study."
"The scattered field, when a plane wave is incident along the axis of a slotted, perfectly conducting, semi-infinite cone, is obtained by a superposition of the scattered field from an unslotted cone and the radiation field from the slot on the cone. The slot is a finite, thin, circumferential slot backed by a cavity which is characterized by an admittance. The induced voltage is represented by a sinusoidal distribution. The amplitude of the induced voltage is then related to the incident field by expressing it in terms of the radiating and load admittances of the slot. Expressions for the radiation admittance and the scattered far fields are derived."
"This paper treats electromagnetic radiation from sources immersed in an isotropic lossy non-dispersive medium moving at nonrelativistic uniform velocity. The inhomogeneous wave equations for the radiated fields are derived and are solved by means of a suitable transformation of the dependent variables. The well-known radiation phenomena are found to be modified when the moving medium is lossy. The results show that, in general (1) the far-zone field is elliptically polarized (2) the far-zone electric and magnetic fields are not mutually perpendicular (3) the far-zone Poynting vector is not purely radial. As an illustrative example, the case in which the source is an oscillating dipole is worked out in detail."
"The problem of scattering from a homogeneous body is formulated in terms of two coupled integral equations relating the effective electric and magnetic surface currents Ke and Km. The formulation chosen, in which each equation involves the constitutive parameters of only one medium, is especially suited to the case of a high conductivity scatterer. From the equation for the conducting medium, one can derive, under increasingly restrictive assumptions, first an explicit expression for Km, in terms of Ke, then a curvature-dependent boundary condition relating the two currents, and finally the usual Leontovich boundary condition. Numerical results for scattering from circular cylinders of small radius show the advantage of the curvature-dependent condition over the Leontovich condition."
"The problem of the propagation of radio waves over territories consisting of mixed land and sea areas has to a great extent been treated by the compensation theorem. However, these investigations have been analytical and, therefore, limited to rather simple configurations. This paper investigates whether the compensation theorem could be used in a more direct numerical approach, whereby it becomes possible to treat arbitrary mixed-path propagation problems. The method is checked by comparison with a simple problem for which an analytical solution is known."
"Solutions expressed in the form of multipole expansion are presented for the electromagnetic fields scattered by two spheres making use of the translational addition theorem for vector spherical wave functions. Some numerical computations for the backscattering cross section are compared with a few experimental results reported by other workers, and the computational problems are discussed in general."
"A semi-infinite homogeneous ionosphere with a dipping static magnetic field is used as an approximation to the upper region of a cylindrically stratified ionosphere model. The presence of a vertical static magnetic field component is neglected in the lower stratified regions. The presence of TM modes in the space between the earth and the ionosphere excites coupled TE and TM modes in the upper half space, and these TE fields also propagate in the cylindrically stratified region and in the space between the earth and ionosphere. The TE waves modify the effective surface impedance for the TM modes and the propagation parameters are determined by an iterative solution of the modal equation. Propagation parameters are calculated numerically for a homogeneous sharply-bounded ionosphere and also for stratified ionosphere models. The interference distance D of the two lowest waveguide modes is increased for propagation in the east-to-west (EW) direction relative to the west-to-east (WE) direction for frequencies less than 25 kHz and for the angles between the vertical and the direction of the static magnetic field in the range of 20° to 60°. These results are consistent with the recently reported measurements by Crombie (1966). The attenuation rates computed for the sharply bounded ionosphere model are in excess of 5 dB/1000 km for EW direction of propagation, but are lower in the stratified ionosphere models."
"An earlier computation of the correlation functions of the components of the electric field resulting from the propagation of high-frequency spherical waves through an intermediate layer containing a weak dielectric random continuum is generalized so that the results hold for a wide class of dielectric two-point correlation functions."
"Previous analyses of transient-wave propagation in unbounded radial lines have been restricted to excitations at the origin. This paper considers the more general case of excitations uniformly distributed about a circumference of arbitrary radius. The inverse Laplace transforms of some modified Bessel functions of the form Kn(as)Im(bs) are evaluated by means of a Green's function formulation."
"While discussing radiation from current distributions in a lossless compressible plasma, Dr. Wait derived two expressions which were denoted by Λe and Λp. He calculated radiation resistance for EM and P modes of linear antenna by integrating Λe sin θ and Λp sin θ over a limit from zero to Π, imposing certain restrictions which made integrations simple but approximate. Cook and Edgar also solved these integrals, neglecting a few terms and applying certain conditions. In the present note an alternative approach has been made. The so-called Wait's general integrals are solved as they were, without using approximations or neglecting any terms. The conditions imposed by the above workers prior to integrations are applied afterwards. It is shown that our solutions agree with the results obtained by Cohen, Chen, and Wait but differ with that of Cook and Edgar."
"The different methods of presenting radio refractive-index data currently in use are compared. It is concluded that a tabulation using the Smith and Weintraub constants for N as a function of total pressure, temperature, and dew-point temperature best serves the needs of radiometeorologists. A tabulation using these parameters comprising 49 tables for N is described."
"It is interesting to read a recent article by Stogryn and find that complicated averages of several random variables were carried out to completion for a Gaussian stationary random process. However, it makes one wonder whether a simpler approach is not possible under the same assumptions Stogryn made. It seems proper to simplify the scattered field expression before calculating the scattering coefficient. This is possible using partial integration technique (Beckmann and Spizzichino, 1963), since Stogryn assumes that his integrand could be expanded in a power series in the surface slopes. What it amounts to then is to combine the technique of Beckmann and Spizzichino (1963), and Kovalev and Pozdnyak (1961)."
"One of the purposes of my recent paper (Stogryn, 1967) was to obtain expressions for the bistatic scattering coefficients of a normally distributed random surface without any approximations in addition to the Kirchhoff approximation. The results are given by eqs (9) and (31) of that paper. It does not appear to me that the same result can be obtained more simply by an initial integration by parts as discussed in Beckmann and Spizzichino (1963), and suggested by Fung. The use of an integration by parts is indeed effective for an infinitely conducting surface where certain coefficients (a, b, and c in the notation of Beckmann and Spizzichino) are independent of position, but an examination of section 5.4 (Beckmann and Spizzichino, 1963) shows that to achieve simple results in the case of finite conductivity, additional ad hoc approximations such as writing the expected value of a product as the product of expected values are necessary. Such additional assumptions have been used by Fung (1966) in his studies also. This type of approximation was avoided in section 4 of Stogryn (1967), and hence more complicated procedures were necessary."
"No abstract is available."
"No abstract is available."
"A rocket-borne experiment, in which measurements of the RF capacity of two spherical probes of different size were taken at several frequencies, is described. The experiment was designed to measure electron density, and was performed during an auroral disturbance. Analysis shows the data agree up to 90 km with electron density measurements by a wave-propagation experiment. Above this height the probe data indicate the presence of field-alined enhancements in the ionization. The characteristic “thickness” of these enhancements is ≈ 400 meters. The electron temperature could be estimated from the data, and values in excess of the neutral temperature were indicated."
"During the period August–December 1965, time-duplex transmissions in the frequency range 11.6–13.8 kHz were radiated from the VLF station GBZ at Criggion, Wales. Measurements on these transmissions were made at a few selected sites at large distances from the transmitter, and also by monitoring the signals aboard a high-speed aircraft. A study of the rms variation of the phase delay of the difference frequencies in the range 200 to 2200 Hz, indicate that the phase-delay fluctuations of two frequencies separated by 200 Hz are not independent. The implications of this in terms of navigation requirements are discussed, it being shown that on the available experimental evidence, for rms errors of 5 nm, the use of two-beat frequencies (200 Hz and 1.2 kHz) would be sufficient for navigation assuming a common frequency near 11 to 12 kHz. Further, the measurements of the propagation characteristics obtained by monitoring the transmissions as a function of distance in an aircraft indicated that modal interference out to distances of order 3000 km contributes an important part to the overall rms phase-delay fluctuations throughout a 24-hr period."
"The quantitative determination of the circuit and field properties of arrays of parallel, nonstag-gered dipoles is treated theoretically and experimentally when the lengths of the elements and the distances between them may differ greatly. The simultaneous integral equations are replaced by approximately equivalent algebraic equations which are used to determine the coefficients of a simple three-term approximation of the currents. Theoretical distributions of current, self and mutual admittances, field patterns, and other properties of simple two-element and five-element arrays are shown to agree well with measured values. Coupled elements ranging in length from longer than a wavelength to a small fraction of a wavelength are included in the study."
"A 12-element log-periodic dipole antenna is investigated with the three-term theory described and verified experimentally in a companion paper (Cheong and King, 1967). The general frequency-independent behavior for the distributions of current, the driving-point admittances, and the power for all elements over a wide range of frequencies. The driving-point admittance, field pattern, beam width, and minor-lobe level are determined for the antenna over the same frequency range. The director and reflector action of the elements is pointed out. It is concluded that a new and powerful tool is available for the complete and accurate analysis of log-periodic dipole antennas."
"In determining the impedance of a cylindrical dipole in intimate contact with a plasma, the effect of the induced acoustic sources (force and fluid flux distributions) on the antenna surface must be accounted for in addition to the effects of the induced current distribution. This is accomplished by the derivation of a suitable stationary formula for impedance which accounts for the effects of all the induced sources. In this variational formulation it is only necessary to know the functional form of the induced sources and not their relative magnitudes in order to obtain impedance values. In general, the effect of the acoustic sources on impedance was found to be quite small for the current and force distribution used."
"The various forms of solution for the problem of an arbitrarily oriented electric or magnetic dipole in the presence of a half plane are reviewed and presented from a unified point of view. Some new results are given and errors in the literature are corrected."
"Theoretical and experimental studies of the scattering by a two-dimensional periodic array of narrow, perfectly-conducting plates have been carried out. The scattering in the resonance region is treated. The present work is restricted to a normally incident plane wave; however, the approach described here can be extended to the case of oblique incidence. The surface current ${\\bar {J}}_{x}$, on a single plate is expanded in a series of N terms. An integral equation is obtained for ${\\bar {J}}_{s}$ by enforcing the boundary condition on the tangential electric field. The N unknown coefficients of ${\\bar {J}}_{s}$, are found by satisfying the integral equation exactly at N points. The solution for the scattered field was found to be highly sensitive to the location of the N points at which the integral equation is satisfied. A set of N points is found by introducing a suitable error gauge which involves ∫Js·Eτ ds. where the integral is taken over a single plate and Ēτ is the calculated total electric field. Within the frequency band considered, the reflectivity of the array is seen to range from unity at its first resonance to zero at certain frequencies where Wood's anomalies occur. Also, the frequency shift of the array resonance from single element resonance is observed. Values of the reflection coefficient calculated as a function frequency compare well with experimental values."
"Analytical and numerical procedures are described for the evaluation of the following functions:$$\\begin{aligned} V'(X, q, q_1) &\\cong V(X, q)+ \\frac {q_{1}-q} {(\\pi i)^{1/2}} \\int^{x_1}_{0} \\frac {V(X-{\\hat X}, q)W({\\hat X}, q_{1})} {({\\hat x})^{1/2}} d {\\hat X},\\\\ &V(X, q) = \\frac {1} {2 \\pi ^{1/2}} {\\int _{\\Gamma}} \\frac {e^{iXt}}{W^{'}_{1}-qw_{1}(t)} dt, \\\\ &W({\\hat X, q_{1}})= \\frac{1}{2}\\left(\\frac {i{\\hat X}} {\\pi}\\right)^{1/2} \\int _{\\Gamma} \\frac {e^{-i {\\hat X}t} w_{1}(t)} {w^{i}_{l} - q_{1} w_{1}(t)}dt. \\end{aligned}\\end{equation}$$ The contour Γ, for the integrals in the complex t plane, may be taken from ∞e−i2Π/3 along a straight line to 0 and then out along the real axis to + ∞. In addition, ωl(t) = √[Bi(t)]-iAi(t)] and ωl'(t) = √π[Bi'(t)-iAi'(t)] where Ai, Bi, Ai', and Bi' are Airy functions in the standard notation. The real quantities X and x1 and the complex factors q and q1 are the parameters of the problem. The function V', which characterizes the pattern of a loop antenna on the earth's surface, is illustrated graphically for low radio frequencies for a mixed land/sea propagation path."
"The statistics of multiple-scattering contributions to the electric field received at a point beyond a layer containing a forward-scattering random dielectric continuum are investigated. Specific statistics such as first and second moments of the field are derived via high-frequency approximations in all terms of the Born series, thus circumventing controversial derivations from an approximated wave equation. The results and their range of validity are compared to those predicted by Rytov's approximation."
"With some interest, I have read that Pappert, Gossard, and Rothmuller have developed a comprehensive computer program to obtain numerical results for the propagation constants of an earth-ionosphere waveguide with an arbitrary electron-density profile. The overall agreement between their approach based on Budden's (1961) work and our method (e.g., Wait and Spies, 1960; Wait, 1960) is quite reassuring. If nothing else, it should lay to rest the controversies which have arisen in connection with the importance of accounting properly for earth curvature in calculating the characteristics of the least attenuated modes."
"In a previous publication1 the author has shown that the lateral corona currents flowing between the leader sheath and the core of the first return stroke in a lightning discharge radiate ELF waves whose spectral peak amplitude is of the same order as that of the VLF waves emitted by the return itself. The equation deduced by the author is:"
"This is a short note drawing attention to the recommendations of international working parties (at Lindau, Germany and Leicester, England) concerning descriptive nomenclature and standard parameters for use in oblique ionospheric radio propagation. The description of oblique ionograms involves the use of terms such as lowest observed frequency, maximum observed frequency, and junction frequency. Path structure is defined by reflections from ionosphere and ground starting at the transmitter. This method is extended to the case of backscatter. Finally, for intercomparison of magnetoionic raytracing programs, standard numbers are suggested for the earth's radius, the free-space velocity, and the geomagnetic field."
"No abstract is available."
"No abstract is available."
"The scattering of waves obeying the scalar wave equation is studied by a method which can be applied to large fluctuations of the refractive index. Besides the general theory, a detailed treatment of the scattering from a half-space and from a slab is given. The results can be applied to circumstances under which the Born approximation fails. This situation seems to arise in connection with the electromagnetic scattering from wakes of supersonic reentry vehicles."
"Techniques for resolving the components of a multipath field are investigated in this paper. Both linear and circular probing schemes are discussed. A method for analyzing the linearly probed data is given, which is considerably simpler than the procedure followed by Watterson in an earlier paper. The method is also extended to the circular case. It is found that the resolution in the circular case is poorer than for the linear scheme."
"Starting with a previous formalism, a method is developed for computing the tangential magnetic field on the surface of an inhomogeneous spherical earth for excitation by a plane wave. The model consists of a two-section earth which is piecewise homogeneous. As has been shown before, the line integral approximation for the pattern function may be evaluated in terms of various representations for the pattern function and the groundwave attenuation functions for homogeneous earth. In the present paper, the results are cast in a form suitable for numerical work. This involves some nontrivial transformations of the relevant contour integral representations. Some specific examples for 50 and 100 kHz show that a marked recovery effect takes place as the receiving antenna is moved from land to sea."
"Very-low-frequency radio-wave diurnal phase changes for frequencies between 10.2 and 26.1 kHz, inclusive, are tabulated and plotted as a function of frequency and path distance. Ninety measurements are listed, of which 25 are new data. By using a daytime theoretical phase velocity for a homogeneous, sharply bounded ionosphere at 70 km which agrees well with experimental data, it is possible to obtain a nighttime first-order-mode phase-velocity curve which does not change with frequency in a manner which is easy to predict. First-order-mode phase velocity curves are used to obtain estimates of first-order-mode group velocity. These calculations suggest that for frequencies less than about 16 kHz the nighttime group velocity is greater than the daytime group velocity. Above 16 kHz it appears that the nighttime group velocity is less than the daytime group velocity. Calculated average group velocity is in agreement with a recent experimental measurement at 17.8 kHz within the experimental error."
"A finite scattering matrix, S, for a plane-wave excited infinite array is developed for the purpose of relating a number of array and active-element properties. The size of S depends on the polarization in space, the grating lobe locations, and the propagating modes in the feed. Array properties such as scattering on receive, transmission amplitude and phase, surface-wave propagation, phase and amplitude of the active-element pattern, etc., are described by this matrix. For the lossless array, the unitary conditions on S further relate the array properties. Some of the results are illustrated by the exact S matrix for an infinite TEM parallel-plate array. The active element characteristics, and the occurrence of surface-wave-type mutual admittances, are discussed in terms of S."
"Ray-optical concepts are introduced for propagation of electromagnetic and electroacoustic waves in an unbounded compressible plasma, and are then applied to the analysis of radiation in the presence of plane or curved interfaces and obstacles. The method involves tracing of the electromagnetic and acoustic rays through the medium, due account being taken of coupling in source regions, at boundaries, and at scattering centers. The formulas for reflected, refracted, and diffracted fields derived in this manner are verified for special cases by the rigorous treatment in part II, thereby providing confidence in the validity of the procedure."
"Different two-dimensional geometries involving bounded, homogeneous, isotropic, compressible plasma regions are considered, and exact integral representations are developed for the electromagnetic and dynamical fields due to various excitations. Specifically, the geometries include plane and cylindrical interfaces, and also a perfectly conducting half plane embedded in the plasma. Asymptotic analysis of the exact solutions by the steepest-descent method leads to results which may be cast into a ray-optical form. It is shown that the geometric-optical and diffraction fields derived in this manner agree with those obtained in part I by direct application of ray-optical procedures. This conclusion lends substance to the validity of the ray-optical method and suggests its utility for even more general configurations which are not readily subjected to rigorous analysis."
"The input resistance of a short filamental antenna in a warm isotropic plasma is computed for several antenna lengths and for a wide range of frequencies. These computations, which are based on kinetic theory, are compared with the result of the hydrodynamic equations. The comparison shows that the hydrodynamic result is incorrect below the plasma frequency, but is a good approximation above the plasma frequency if the antenna is long compared to a Debye length. For antenna lengths comparable to a Debye length, however, the hydrodynamic result is valid only at frequencies far above the plasma frequency."
"The high-frequency limits for radio transmission are calculated from the data of vertical sounding stations. For distances < 2000 km, only the vertical data of the station at the midpoint of the path are used. To check this rule, oblique and vertical sweep-frequency records which were observed under normal and anomalous conditions were compared. If the distribution of ionization is nearly constant along the route, normal conditions are present, and the high-frequency limits calculated from the midpoint station are consistent with the oblique observations. Anomalous conditions are present during winter nights. At this time the critical frequencies may vary over a distance of 500 km by a factor of 2 or more. These steep gradients imply that the maximum observed frequency (MOF) is much higher than the calculated maximum usable frequency (MUF). Additional transmission modes are observed which are explained using rough models. The steep gradients were found to be moving southward during the night. A statistical analysis indicates that the magnitude of the gradient and the extent of this motion is increased with increased magnetic activity."
"It is shown that for the plasmas present around a wide variety of reentry vehicles, it is acceptable to replace the plasma by an impedance sheet. Using this notion, a variational expression for the admittance of an arbitrary aperture (fed by a waveguide) in an infinite conducting plane covered by an impedance sheet is developed, and examined in some detail. We found that a purely real impedance sheet tends to suppress the higher-order modes, while a purely imaginary sheet can enhance or suppress the higher modes, depending upon their nature. Finally, we showed that in situations where the dominant mode is a good approximation to the aperture field, the radiation pattern is attenuated by a factor $10\\log_{10}\\left|\\frac{1}{1+\\frac {Y_{s}} {Y_{c}+Y^{(0)}_{a}}}\\right|^{2}dB,$ where Ys is the plasma surface admittance, Yc is the dominant mode characteristic admittance of the waveguide, and $Y^{(0)}_{a}$ is the aperture admittance with no plasma present. The validity of this expression has been verified by experiments with impedance sheets."
"The radar backscattering characteristics of the lunar surface are examined in detail at a wavelength of 23 cm. The backscattered waves are studied both for circular and for linear polarization of the transmitted wave. Effects relating to the orientation of the local plane of incidence on the moon with respect to the polarization of transmitted or scattered waves are investigated. The experimental results appear to strongly support the hypothesis that the returns at oblique angles of incidence arise through single scattering from discrete objects, as opposed to the returns at near normal incidence which are dominated by quasi-specular reflection."
"A new method of obtaining an ionospheric index of solar activity, based on the monthly median foF2 at 4 hours of the day (0, 6, 12, and 18 local hours), is described. The index for each month of the year has been determined, together with regression coefficients of quadratic equations for every hour at several typical stations, by minimizing the standard percentage error of foF2 estimates. The index has favorable features: the standard deviation of index above and below its running average is smaller; the standard percentage deviation of residual of foF2 and the standard percentage deviation of total error in forecasts of foF2 are much smaller than those of the index obtained by the current method for calculating an ionospheric index of solar activity. Reasons for considering the new index a better approximation to an ideal solar index for the ionosphere are presented."
"For a plane electromagnetic wave at nose-on incidence on a semi-infinite perfectly conducting cone expressions for the surface field components are obtained. These have been programmed for numerical computation and data are presented for the magnitudes and phases as functions of the distance from the tip for three different cone angles. Comparison with results derived from the physical optics approximation and from a simple wedge approximation shows that the differences — between the exact and physical optics values are not attributable to a tip-excited wave."
"The admittance of a slotted-sphere antenna immersed in a tenuous plasma was measured at frequencies between 35 and 110 MHz in the region of resonance of the probe-plasma system. A set of antennas with radii R between 0.8 and 3.2 cm was used. The electron density and temperature were varied thus allowing studies to be made over a range of the parameter R/LD from 6 to 30, where LD is the Debye length. The approximate theoretical model of Harp (1964) for the position of the resonance was compared with measurements and was found to be adequate for values of (R/LD) ≳ 15. The width of the resonance line Δ was essentially independent of gas pressure for pressures below 10−3 Torr but was found to be a strong function of R and LD The empirical relation (Δ/ωp) ≃ 7.8 (LD/R)1.5 where ωp is the plasma frequency, fits the observations. Some form of collisionless damping causes the observed line broadening."
"An integral expression is derived for the current distribution on an infinite, perfectly conducting antenna alined with the magnetic field in an anisotropic incompressible plasma. Use is made of the Wilcox radiation condition and the notion of generalized eigenfunctions. An asymptotic evaluation of the integral is presented, and it is shown that the current distribution contains the wave numbers of the two plane waves possible in this medium."
"Experimental data suggest that the spectral density of the radio refractivity, N, exhibits a strong dependence on stability (Richardson's number, Ri) at the low frequency range and a weak dependence on stability at the high frequency range. Furthermore, the average spectral decay of N was found to be in reasonably good agreement with the “—5/3” law; however, significant departures from this law were observed depending upon the frequency range considered. In fact, systematically smaller spectral decays were observed at low frequencies and larger decays at high frequencies."
"The method of steepest descents has been used to evaluate solutions for the potential of a vertical electric dipole over an interface, wherein the characteristics of both media have been expressed in generalized (nonmagnetic) terms. The nature of the propagation is found to depend upon the relative loss tangents of the two media, and to consist of spherical waves and (in the more lossy region) two additional waves with surface-bound properties, independently of the location of the dipole."
"We are assembled here this evening to commemorate one of the pioneers in radio science, Prof. Jonathan Adolf Wilhelm Zenneck. The occasion and the location of this meeting could not have been chosen more appropriately. This is the first General Assembly of URSI to be held in Zenneck's native country, Germany. Zenneck was a great advocate of URSI. Before World War II, he was chairman of the German National Committee and vice president of URSI, two posts which are now held by one of his former students, Professor Dieminger. After the War, Zenneck was elected honorary president of the German National Committee."
"No abstract is available."
"Calculations for the ordinary ray under different conditions show that the effect of collisions can considerably reduce the virtual heights given by ray theory. This reduction is, however, caused entirely by the errors inherent in ray theory. Phase integral calculations show that the simplest ray theory result, ignoring collisions, is accurate to within 0.1 percent except under those conditions which require a full wave treatment. Calculations of absorption by integrating the absorption coefficient k up to the level X = 1 also give incorrect results, because of ray theory limitations. These errors are exactly counterbalanced by the errors in a commonly used approximation for k. The use of this approximation therefore gives results which are more accurate, by several orders of magnitude, than the use of the exact expression."
"VLF atmospheric data recorded during four 6-hour periods was analyzed to evaluate the feasibility of employing a new technique to determine attenuation rates over a particular path. The technique involves recording the spectral components of atmospherics arriving from within an adjustable azimuthal direction. Changes in transmission loss, deduced from the observed spectra, between day and night conditions for an approximate 3000-km path indicate differences in total transmission loss of about 15 dB at 5 kHz, 1 or 2 dB at 10 kHz and 40 kHz, and a negative loss, or gain, between 12 kHz and 30 kHz."
"The 400-foot radio telescope of the University of Illinois Vermilion River Observatory, operating at 610 MHz, depends upon a complicated focal-line antenna array for its steering in declination. In order to obtain an acceptable compromise between bandwidth and economy, the transmission line system for this array is a compromise between the “branching” system and the “traveling-wave” system. The transmission-line arrangements are analyzed in detail. The intricacy of the transmission system results in low overall power efficiency of the radio telescope, but permits easy and accurate adjustment of declination. An approximately optimum compromise between “sensitivity” and confusion is achieved, notwithstanding the low efficiency. From astronomical measurements, the effective area of the telescope is 2200 m2, its pointing accuracy is 2 minutes of arc, and its beamwidth is 15 minutes of arc. Two comparison-type radiometers are operated in synchronism, to utilize all of the operating time of the telescope. Minimum detectable signal level in a single observation is approximately 10−26 wm−2Hz−1."
"The wide variations in refractive index gradients that may be encountered for nominally line-of-sight microwave maritime paths can cause severe fading. A common type is known as k-type fading which includes phase-interference fading and also diffraction fading as the refractive index gradient varies over a wide range. Lewin (1962) was the first to provide an engineering design procedure that roughly approximated: (a), the required terminal antenna heights to reduce diffraction fading, and (b), the required diversity separations (frequency or space) to provide a dynamic reduction of phase-interference fading. The diversity design procedures, (b) above, have since been derived in a more accurate manner although they presuppose that item (a) has been provided for. The present paper meets this requirement. It provides a more accurate design procedure for determining the requirements, (a) above, to reduce diffraction fading. As an aid for the procedure, a new computer-derived curve is presented for the attenuation by a spherical earth at grazing conditions."
"A finite, balanced helical wire antenna excited by a delta-function generator is investigated. The geometry of a helical wire is examined and an exact integral equation for the current distribution along the antenna is formulated. For a thin helical wire, the exact integral equation can be approximated by a one-dimensional approximation, which can be solved by a Fourier-series method. In the solution, the logarithmic singularity at the driving point is taken into account and is subsequently subtracted out. Thus, the input admittance is obtained. The theoretical results are compared with the experimental result. It is found that the current amplitude decays exponentially. This is contradictory to the usual assumption that the current along a helical antenna is a traveling wave with a constant amplitude."
"The current, the input impedance, and the far field pattern of a cylindrical antenna with tapered resistive loading are determined. The distribution of the resistive loading along the antenna is a particular function multiplied by a constant positive parameter α. The current on the antenna and the field pattern are evaluated for a wide range of lengths with several different α's ranging from 0 to 1 and for positive integers. They are found not critically dependent on the parameter α. For α near or greater than 1, the antenna is nonreflecting."
"Based on a variational formulation, an expression is derived for the admittance of a circumferential gap in an infinite cylinder covered by a set of coaxial dielectric or plasma layers. The gap is fed by the dominant TEM mode in a narrowly spaced, parallel-plate, radial waveguide. Numerical computations are presented for a multiple-layer model of a lossy plasma and for a dielectric layer which supports surface waves. These computations are compared with admittance measurements of a similarly excited metal cylinder surrounded by an annular plasma. The plasma is produced in a long double-wall cylindrical vessel by a pulsed d-c discharge in argon at 0.4 Torr. In the experiment, the radial guide is excited by a small axial probe fed by a conventional coaxial air line. The admittance viewed in the coaxial line is related to the gap admittance by an experimentally determined two-port network representing the junction region. The measurements are in fair agreement with calculated values based on a three-layer model of the inhomogeneous plasma and the discharge tube."
"Spectral densities of components of the electromagnetic fields of thermal radiation in a uniform magnetoplasma are shown to be related to the radiation resistances of electrically small antennas radiating in the magnetoplasma. For antennas of arbitrary size and shape the conventional concepts used to describe antenna performance in isotropic media, i.e., gain, effective area and effective length are generalized to anisotropic media and relationships between them and radiation resistance established. A thermodynamic method is used in the derivation of the relationships. A new derivation of the radiation resistance for an electrically small dipole in magnetoplasma is given based only on the far-zone radiated fields."
"In this paper an attempt is made to show that the lateral corona currents that flow between the leader sheath and the core of the first return stroke radiate ELF waves whose spectral peak amplitude is of the same order as the spectral peak amplitude of VLF waves emitted by the return. The total energies radiated by the corona and the return are also estimated, and the difference in their magnitudes in relation to the spectral peak amplitudes explained. The corona current mechanism is, however, not the only source of ELF energy. The long continuing currents involving large quantities of charge transfer (as reported by Kitagawa and others) cannot be explained by the corona mechanism, but they are capable of emitting ELF waves."
"The recent formulations on electrodynamics of moving media proposed by some authors are reviewed. It is pointed out that all these apparently new formulations can be uncovered in the earlier work of Minkowski and Born. It is recommended that this classical work should be thoroughly covered in the curriculum of educational institutions offering graduate courses in electromagnetic field theory."
"It is shown that the effective earth's radius technique may be applied to ray tracing through a horizontally stratified atmosphere over a smooth, spherical earth, where the refractive index profile consists of relatively thin layers of nearly-constant n-gradient. With this method the refraction (bending) of the radio ray becomes a closed form function of the elevation angle, which is itself a closed form function of the refractive index profile. This allows ray tracings to be performed with less computing time and with a much higher degree of internal precision than formerly. This latter advantage facilitates computation of small dispersive effects at optical wave lengths. It is shown that the radial distance power-law model of n(r), inherent in the effective earth's radius approach, is nearly identical, for relatively thin layers, with the simple constant gradient model which has been widely used in the past, thus assuring compatibility with previous results."
"In a previous paper (Wait, 1966), an expression was derived for the fields of two parallel line charges in an anisotropic medium. A quasi-static theory was used, and to facilitate the analysis, the line sources were encased in a cylindrical dielectric rod. An important conclusion was that the resonant frequencies of the driving point impedance did not depend on the geometry of the device; at least, this was true to within a first order. This is in contrast to many other plasma diagnostic devices (Heald and Wharton,. 1965)."
"One year's observations of VLF transmissions from NLK received over a long transequatorial path at Smithfield, South Australia, are described. Phase cycle slipping on this path is common and is shown to be an integral part of the direct path modal interference pattern during the sunrise transition. The seasonal variation of cycle slipping and the sunrise fading is shown to be a function of the angle made by the propagation path with the sunrise line. The occurrence of phase cycle slipping and the associated fade spacing anomalies are interpreted as arising from anomalously high mode conversion when the sunrise line is in the vicinity of the geomagnetic equator."
"Periodic field strength variations which were observed during sunrise on VLF signals propagated over long paths are discussed. The stepwise phase increase and the minima of the signal amplitude may be explained by the waveguide-mode theory; they are caused by interference between the first and the converted second mode. Owing to a weak second mode at lower frequencies, the sunrise effect at lower frequencies in general is only weakly developed. The reversed stepwise phase variation observed at higher frequencies may be explained by a strong converted second mode whose amplitude exceeds that of the first mode."
"An experiment was earned out to study modal interference effects and the extent of agreement with theoretical results obtained previously. Field strength data for transmission from two stations in Hawaii on several frequencies between 16.6 and 26.1 kHz and from NPG on 18.6 kHz were recorded aboard an aircraft while in flight between California, Guam, Japan, and at a ground site near Washington, D.C. The experimental observations show considerable modal interference and very good agreement with the theoretical results for the isotropic case. For frequencies above 20 kHz the experimental data indicate the existence of at least the first three modes for propagation to the west and to the east, out to distances greater than 3 Mm. The data at 19.8 kHz, however, indicate three-mode effects for propagation to the east but only two modes to the west. The fading of the field strengths at Washington, D.C., during sunrise was frequently greater than 20 dB. The depth of the fades, in general, increased with frequency, whereas their time of occurrence was relatively independent of frequency — over the range of 19.8 to 26.1 kHz, which was expected from theory."
"The sunrise variations of phase and amplitude of VLF signals received over a single long path, at frequencies between 9.2 and 26.1 kHz are interpreted as interference between waveguide modes. The deduced differences in phase velocity and attenuation rates of the first two modes are in accordance with theoretical calculations and with earlier observations in a more restricted frequency range."
"Multimode propagation and mode conversion at the sunrise and sunset lines must be considered to explain the diurnal variations on some VLF paths. In this investigation the model selected to represent the transition from one steady-state ionosphere condition to the other was an abrupt change in the surface impedance and reference height of the ionosphere. Comparisons of calculated and recorded amplitude and phase variations during sunset showed that sunset could not be approximated by an abrupt ionosphere transition. Comparisons of calculated and recorded variations during sunrise, however, indicated that the simple analytical model approximated the propagation conditions during sunrise for the east-to-west and west-to-east paths that were considered."
"The surface impedance of a cylindrically stratified anisotropic ionosphere has been computed in the presence of a transverse static magnetic field without requiring explicit representations of the individual cylindrical wave functions in the lower ionospheric layers. The propagation parameters are determined from the usual transcendental modal equation which is solved starting out with an initial real solution dependent on the reactive part of the ionospheric surface impedance. The surface impedance computations are continued below the ionospheric boundary height, and the impedance reflected to the ground level by the ionosphere is compared with the ground impedance. The accuracy of the computations is shown to be comparable to a few percent uncertainty of the ground impedance for low conductivity ground. The propagation parameters of the first three waveguide modes are calculated for a number of ionosphere models which include the recent D region models of Deeks (1966). For propagation in the east-to-west direction, the phase velocity of the second mode is shown to be discontinuous when the real part of the ionospheric reflection coefficient undergoes a sign change. This condition is characterized by an absorption peak and for ionosphere models of lower anisotropy (lower values of ωH/ν, where ωH is the gyrofrequency and ν is the effective collision frequency) the interference distance D of the two lowest modes is increased for propagation in the east-to-west direction relative to the west-to-east direction, but it is decreased for larger ωH/ν ratios which are representative of available models of stratified ionosphere."
"Airborne phase and amplitude records of the transmissions from NPM on 19.8 kHz were obtained near its antipode in July 1963. The data are used to deduce attenuation rates at VLF. The results are presented as curves of attenuation rate of the dominant waveguide mode versus geomagnetic bearing of propagation path as measured at the transmitter. Results are given for both daytime and nighttime propagation and are considered applicable for sea water paths at temperate latitudes."
"In July 1963, the Naval Research Laboratory and the Navy Electronics Laboratory conducted a joint experiment in the vicinity of the antipode of the very low frequency transmitter NPM (19.8 kHz). An analysis of data collected by the Naval Research Laboratory during aircraft Bights in the immediate vicinity of the antipode during this experiment is presented. A definite increase in field strength in the antipodal region was observed; inverse square root of distance variations in the field strengths over sections of the antipodal area were seen. A diurnal pattern in which highest field strengths occurred at local sunrise, lowest field strengths at local sunset, and intermediate signal levels at local noon and midnight was observed. Inferences of antipodal movement could be drawn from the data. The antipodal situation appeared to be complex, and further study is needed before a complete understanding can be obtained."
"VLF signals received in New Zealand from NPG, Seattle, via the whistler mode are usually shifted in frequency during transit. They traverse a region of the magnetosphere which is bounded approximately by the magnetic longitudes of transmitter and receiver and which may vary in latitude during a single night over a range of several degrees. In general, signals are detected only when entry and exit points of the appropriate field lines are in darkness. They are subject to a form of geomagnetic control. The roles of ionosphere and magnetosphere as frequency shifting devices are examined, and it is concluded that the chief agency is an equatorward movement of preferred paths during the night."
"The fields of 10-kHz radio waves propagating into and through the lower ionosphere are calculated by numerical methods, and the attenuation, polarization, and power flow characteristics are examined as a function of height for daytime and nighttime ionospheric electron density profiles with varying angles of incidence, directions of propagation relative to the earth's magnetic field, and dip angle. The conclusions are that virtually all the attenuation of the wave occurs in the lower D region of the ionosphere, that the transmitted wave is nearly circularly polarized, and that the energy of the transmitted wave is traveling nearly along the magnetic lines of force in agreement with the predictions of ray theory.” The analysis also shows the strong variation in transmission with dip angle and with change from day to night ionosphere in agreement with observed variations in intensity and in frequency of occurrence of “whistlers.”"
"A formal solution to the problem of determining the fields generated by an infinitesimal, arbitrarily oriented, electric-dipole source located in an isotropic medium bounded by parallel plane-stratified, anisotropic media is derived."
"The observed changes of phase and signal amplitude of VLF radio waves, propagated over distances varying between 1,000 and 10,000 km, which accompany solar flares have been studied for the period 1961 to 1964. In general, the phase of the received signal advances and the signal amplitude increases during the onset of a solar flare. However, observations of the GBR transmissions at Rome (1,500-km path) show that for this particular path the phase of the received signal retards in contrast to all other paths studied. Assuming that the conductivity of the lower ionosphere varies exponentially with height under both quiet and disturbed conditions, it is possible to evaluate the waveguide mode characteristics of VLF propagation over large distances. Using this theoretical approach it has been shown that the observations can only be interpreted if both the D-region electron density profile is lowered and the gradient of ionization density increased. The magnitude of the flare-produced changes in ionization density profiles of the lower ionosphere have been evaluated analytically from solar X-ray data. These profile changes are consistent with the lowering of the D region and increase in ionization gradient that are required to explain the VLF radio wave observations."
"The VLF radio broadcasts of GBR(16.0 kHz), NBA(18.0 or 24.0 kHz), and NSS(21.4 kHz) have enabled worldwide comparisons of atomic frequency standards to parts in 1010 when received over varied paths and at distances up to 9000 or more kilometers. This paper summarizes a statistical analysis of such comparison data from laboratories in England, France, Switzerland, Sweden, Russia, Japan, Canada, and the United States during the 5-year period 1961–1965. The basic data are differences in 24-hr average frequencies between the local atomic standard and the received VLF radio signal expressed as parts in 1010. The analysis of the more recent data finds the receiving laboratory standard deviations ${\\hat \\alpha}_{i}$, and the transmission standard deviation, ${\\hat \\tau}$, to be a few parts in 1011. Averaging frequencies over an increasing number of days has the effect of reducing ${\\hat \\alpha}_{i}$ and ${\\hat \\tau}$ to some extent. The variation of the ${\\hat \\alpha}_{i}$ with propagation distance is studied. The VLF-LF long-term mean differences between standards are compared with the recent portable clock tests, and they agree to parts in 1011."
"This paper discusses measurements of atmospheric noise which have been made at various times during the past two years in Malta, G.C.; Point Barrow, Alaska; Boulder, Colorado; Tokyo, Japan; Hawaii; Miami, Florida; and at various locations throughout Central and South America. Most of the measurements were average measurements of the vertical electric field intensity and amplitude probability distributions of the vertical electric fields. The atmospheric noise spectra obtained at these widely spaced locations over this large frequency range provide a good basis for rough estimates of noise field intensities at any global location. The results correlate well with lightning spectra and propagation attenuation coefficients. The amplitude probability distributions provide interesting and useful information regarding the characteristics of the noise and are used to convert the average measurements to rms values. These are some of the first amplitude probability distributions obtained throughout this frequency range. Subsurface noise spectra have been computed for several earth models as an aid to subsurface communicators."
"The results of a 16-month study of the phase and amplitude variations of 100-kHz Loran-C pulse signals between Attu and Sitkinak in the Aleutian Islands are presented. The data show changes in signal amplitude which occur at the same solar zenith angle throughout the year and phase changes which do not occur at the same solar zenith angle throughout the year. Signal amplitudes averaged 15 dB higher during the night than during the day. The shape of the measured diurnal phase and amplitude changes supports a two-layer formation of the lower ionosphere, the lower layer primarily influencing the signal amplitude, and the other primarily influencing the signal phase. The data suggest that an amplitude change occurs at a solar zenith angle of 100°. This effect occurs while the sun's rays reaching the ionosphere are still penetrating the ozone layer."
"Closed formulae for the reflection coefficients of a sharply bounded ionosphere for plane waves incident from any direction at the magnetic equator are derived."
"A magnetic line source is placed parallel to and possibly near a land-sea boundary on a flat earth. The problem is two dimensional, but its solution may be employed to examine the corresponding three-dimensional configuration which involves a vertical electric dipole. The mathematical model consists of a perfectly conducting half plane (sea) in the interface between free space and an imperfectly conducting dielectric (land). The far field, over both sea and land, is required. The method employed is to evaluate the rigorous, contour integral solution of Clemmow (1953), under the assumption that the complex refractive index n of the land is large. This integral is evaluated first for points not too near, but not necessarily far from the coastline. A second field representation (useful very near the shoreline) as a Bessel-function series is derived. Analytical comparison is made with recent work of Wait (1963) and Bach Andersen (1963). Good agreement is found except in the immediate neighborhood of the coastline. The onset of the “recovery effect” over the sea and the associated rapid phase variations near the coastline, are found for a wave incident from over the land; the corresponding effects for a wave incident from over the sea are also noted. These are in qualitative agreement with experiment. Numerical results are exhibited for a frequency of 10 MHz and n=3.91—i 2.30."
"An infinite set of coupled first-order differential equations is derived for the complex amplitude of the forward and backward waves in multimode waveguide structures of varying surface impedance boundaries. Using a quasi-optical approach in the first analysis, the waveguide is considered to consist of an infinity of elementary waveguide sections, with an infinitesimal variation of the surface impedance between two such adjacent waveguides. The second analysis is an extension to the application of the generalized telegraphist's equations for nonuniform waveguides. The two methods are compared in general. Finally, waveguide structures with varying surface impedance boundaries and nonuniform cross sections are considered."
"The ray solution for a point source located in a medium with varying propagation constant given by $k(z) = h_{0} \\surd {sech^{2} \\alpha z - \\beta^{2}}$ exhibits for β = 0 the interesting property of the focusing of all rays at periodic distances. The problem of finding the exact solution for the electromagnetic field reduces to that of finding Green's function to the scalar wave equation, $\\nabla^{2}C + h^{2}_{0} ({\\rm sech}^{2} \\alpha z - \\beta^{2})C = (1/2 \\pi r)\\delta(r)\\delta(z- Z_{0})$. The eigenfunctions for this equation consist of a mixed spectrum, i.e., a continuous set of eigenfunctions plus a finite number of discrete eigenfunctions. The mixed spectrum is normalized and shown to form a complete set, in which the Green's function is expanded. Examination of the discrete spectrum in the far field reveals that all the lower order modes add in phase where ray theory predicts focusing. Integral approximations for the continuous spectrum show that it represents a nonpropagating, rapidly decaying field, which is negligible compared to the discrete spectrum, except in the region “close” to the point source."
"The nature of electromagnetic wave propagation in a partially ionized paramagnetic gas in a static magnetic field is explored. It is necessary to characterize such a medium by second-order tensor expressions for both the permittivity and permeability, the former being that characteristic of an ordinary magnetoplasma, and the latter that for a magnetized paramagnetic medium. Employing linearized forms of these and Maxwell's equations leads to a general dispersion relation. For lossless conditions it is shown that the resonances and cutoffs associated with the free electrons and those due to the paramagnetic constituents are independent. This leads to some interesting, hypothetical propagation conditions that may exist in planetary or stellar atmospheres. Application of this theory is made to the ionosphere, in which atomic oxygen is the major paramagnetic constituent. Accounting for collisional losses, it is shown that the upper limit of the absorption at the peak of the atomic oxygen electron spin resonance line in the ionosphere is only 5 × 10−4 times the background absorption due to the free electrons; the effect of Doppler broadening would be to decrease this number. The minute nature of this absorption line is supported by the apparently complete lack of experimental evidence of electron spin resonance effects on radio wave propagation in the terrestrial ionosphere. It is also shown that the internal radiation (noise) in the ionosphere must exhibit a similarly weak absorption line at the electron spin resonance, due to the nonequilibrium nature of the energy distribution of the free electrons."
"Daily measurements of atmospheric attenuation at 15 and 35 GHz were made over a 6-month period using the sum as a source. Curves showing percentage time distributions at various zenith angles and attenuation as a function of zenith angle for various weather conditions are presented. Clear sky attenuations were found to be well correlated with absolute humidity. The effect of solar flux variations is discussed."
"A cylindrical antenna of infinite length imbedded in a concentric dielectric rod has been studied in detail by using a Fourier transform technique. The antenna radius is held constant while the thickness of the dielectric rod is varied over a wide range. The results have been compared against the corresponding properties of an infinite antenna in free space. It is found that the presence of the dielectric gives rise to a transmission current in addition to the radiation current. Increasing the thickness of the dielectric layer tends to increase the transmission current, decrease the radiation current and made the radiation pattern more broadside."
"The reentry vehicle model employed in this study consists of a plasma-clad sphere with a narrow circumferential slot cut at the equator. The slot is excited by a biconical transmission line driven at its center by a coaxial cable. The homogeneous plasma is assumed to be in contact with the sphere. The driving-point impedance referred to the input terminals and the radiation field in terms of the input current are determined. The efficiency of transmission is calculated by taking the ratio of the power obtained by integrating the Poynting vector over the surface of a great sphere to the power supplied the linearly tapered radial transmission line by the coaxial cable. The voltage appearing across an impedance connected to the terminals of the biconical transmission line is evaluated in terms of the amplitude of an incident plane-wave electromagnetic field. Numerical results are presented exhibiting the transmission and reception qualities of the equatorial slot antenna on the reentry sphere for a range of frequencies and plasma properties."
"An exact formula for the current distribution I(η) along an unloaded (short-circuited terminals) prolate spheroidal receiving antenna of arbitrary eccentricity is derived when the incident field is a plane wave with the electric vector directed parallel to the major axis of the spheroid. A knowledge of the current I(0) and the input impedance Z0, derived earlier by Chu and Stratton, completely determines the receiving characteristics of the antenna when it is loaded by impedance ZL at η = 0. The current distribution along the antenna is obtained from Ampere's law by integrating the magnetic field at the surface of the spheroid around cross sections perpendicular to the major axis. This integration removes the azimuthal angular dependence providing sufficient simplification in the mathematics, so that the exact current distribution may be obtained from an equation involving a single infinite sum. The plane-wave scattering problem is completely formulated. It is shown that the solution for the scattered fields can be obtained only by solving simultaneous infinite matrix equations. Numerical results are presented that compare spheroidal antenna receiving current distributions to cylindrical antenna current distributions. Also the induced center currents are compared for a number of antenna-shape parameters. These reveal that thin cylindrical antenna theory may be extended past its theoretical limits of validity."
"It is known that the impedance match of a phased-array antenna can be improved over a range of scan angles by connecting lossless circuits between the transmission lines leading to the radiating elements. Now it is demonstrated that, by more complex interconnections in an infinite series, perfect impedance match can theoretically be obtained for all scan angles. This is proven first for an infinite linear array, and then for an infinite planar array having a square or triangular arrangement of the elements."
"Phase measurements of the 18.6-kHz transmissions from Jim Creek were recorded during 1964 and 1965 at São José dos Campos (SP), Brazil. The diurnal signal phase variation presents an average time shift delay of 80 μs, which is rather regular throughout the year. The behavior of the phase rate of change during sunrise and sunset is discussed in terms of the interference pattern of propagation modes and in terms of the angle between the sunrise (and sunset) line and the transmitter-receiver great circle path. Experimental evidence permits one to conclude that the phase-path reflection height is a strong controlling factor of the second-order mode propagation. Observations also show that the angle mentioned above is an important parameter in VLF phase studies."
"Diurnal phase changes of VLF signals propagated over long paths (d > 5000 km) are discussed. Assuming the model of single-mode propagation, the annual mean phase change corresponds to the value expected from the theory. The strong scatter of the individual values may possibly be explained by a nonnegligible second mode during nighttime propagation. In the interpretation of the diurnal phase changes of VLF signals propagated over arctic paths, the dependence of the ionization in the lower ionosphere on the solar zenith distance has to be considered."
"A computer program based on formalism developed by Budden will be used to evaluate the adequacy of some approximations that have been used in VLF waveguide propagation studies. The program makes allowance for the inhomogeneity and anisotropy of the lowest part of the ionosphere, allows for earth curvature, and may be used for arbitrary direction of propagation at any latitude. The results of this program will be compared with calculations of Wait and Spies who used a model ionosphere consisting of an exponential variation for both electron density and collision frequency. This comparison will allow us to demonstrate a close numerical equivalence between the modified refractive index formulation and the spherical coordinate formulation as implemented by Wait and Spies. Also, it will be shown that an approximation introduced by Wait and Spies during the course of applying the effective surface impedance concept, though quite valid for first-order mode calculations, is inadequate for daytime second-order mode calculations."
"The modal wave solutions of an isotropic, plasma-filled, parallel-plate waveguide are examined in detail using both the cold- and the warm-plasma models without collision. It is found that three types of modal waves—optical, acoustic, and slow-wave modes—mav exist in the guide filled with warm plasma. In the zero-temperature limit, both the propagating characteristics and the field solutions are studied for the purpose of comparing with the results obtained in a cold-plasma waveguide."
"When a harmonic steady state electromagnetic wave, polarized in the plane of incidence, propagates in a plane-stratified isotropic plasma (regarded as a dielectric), the electric field is found to diverge at the level of plasma resonance. It is shown that this physical inconsistency can be removed by discarding the steady state assumption. In the transient case, the field remains finite, but the magnitude of the longitudinal component increases linearly with time, while that of the transverse component increases as the logarithm of the time."
"The problem of electromagnetic scattering from a statistically rough surface bounding a uniform, finitely conducting medium of infinite extent is treated in the Kirchhoff approximation. Both intensity and polarization of the scattered wave is considered. Explicit formulas are obtained for the special case of a normally distributed surface. Comparison is made with previous results obtained by other authors under the assumption of infinite conductivity."
"A simple one-dimensional model for wave propagation in a random medium is considered. A few approximate methods of solution are investigated and compared with the exact solution. In particular, Tatarskii and Gertsenshtein's “renormalization” method is applied and shown to give results which, under certain assumptions, coincide with the exact solution."
"Rytov's method (method of smooth perturbations) has been used extensively to solve problems involving wave propagation in turbulent media. The closure procedure employed in the, Rytov theory is, however, questionable. In this paper the Rytov result is compared with the results of the perturbation theory of linear stochastic operators. It is shown that the Rytov method does not yield the field correct to first order in the perturbation parameter, and it is concluded that the method is not generally valid beyond the limits of the Born (single-scatter) approximation."
"Influence of sub-surface insulating layer on electromagnetic ground wave propagation, J. R. Wait, IEEE Trans. Ant. Prop. AP–14, No. 6, 755–759 (Nov. 1966)."
