"It is shown that the lower bound on zero-error capacityC_{0}as presented by Shannon [1] and Gallager [2] is\\ln \\alpha, where\\alphais the maximum number of channel input symbols, no two of which have a common output symbol."
"Two solutions are presented to the problem of finding from one spectral factorization all spectral factorizations of a non-negative para-Hermitian matrix. The first solution results from the theory of equivalent networks while the second is given through a derivation from first principles."
"Recursive relations are given for updating the conditional densityp(\\theta_{k} | X_{k-1}, \\cdots X_{1})(also forp(\\theta_{k} | X_{k}, \\cdots, X_{1})), where\\theta_{k}is a parameter of the density ofX_{k}. The observationsX_{1}, X_{2}, \\cdotsare assumed to be conditionally independent (i.e., for known parameters), and the sequence of time-varying parameters\\theta_{1}, \\theta_{2}, \\cdotsconstitutes a Markov-M sequence. The result requires the storage of an intermediate function of(\\theta_{k-1}, \\cdots , \\theta_{k-M})."
"The following simple abstract model for a class of communications problems is adopted: the set of possible transmitted signalsxis taken to be the unit ball in theL_{2}space of functions defined on[-T, T](bounded energy); the transmitted signal is assumed to be operated on by a convolution operatorH; and the final observed received signalzisz = Hx + n, wherenis an unknown error, caused either by additive noise, lack of complete knowledge ofH, or other causes, of norm less than some specified\\epsilon(not necessarily small). The problem is to determine how many \"distinguishable\" signals can be sent, i.e., how manyx_{i}there are such that they_{i} = Hx_{i}are separated in norm by at least\\epsilon. The chief results are asymptotic upper and lower bounds on the rate of error-free transmission possible, i.e., the ratio of the logarithm of the number of distinguishable signals to the time interval2TasT \\rightarrow \\infty. These estimates are in terms of the Fourier transform of the kernel of the convolution operatorH. The suitability of the model and the nature of the results are discussed."
"The Fourier representation of signals and its relation to the signal structure in time and frequency, and more generally the inherent properties of phase-modulated signals, have received considerable attention in the past. These topics have led to such seemingly unrelated studies as the representation of a signal in a combined time-frequency plane, \"instantaneous power spectra,\" and the ambiguity function and its transform relations. It is shown in this paper that the studies can be unified by the introduction of the concept of the complex energy density function of a signal. The function is an extension and combination of the one-dimensional energy density functions in time and frequency, the energy density spectrum|\\Psi(f)|^{2}, and energy density waveform|\\psi (t)|^{2}. On the basis of the complex energy density function, the significance of complicated-appearing transform relations is readily understood. The new concept also conveys a good insight into the internal structure of phase-modulated signals."
"The system of sine and cosine functions has been distinguished historically in communications. Whenever the term frequency is used, reference is made implicitly to these functions; hence the generally used theory of communication is based on the system of sine and cosine functions. In recent years other complete systems of orthogonal functions have been used for theoretical investigations as well as for equipment design. Analogs to Fourier series, Fourier transform, frequency, power spectra, and amplitude, phase, and frequency modulation exist for many systems of orthogonal functions. This implies that theories of communication can be worked out on the basis of these systems. Most of these theories are of academic interest only. However, for the complete system of the orthogonal Walsh functions, the implementation of circuits by modem semiconductor techniques appears to be competitive in a number of applications with the implementation of circuits for the system of sine and cosine functions."
"The detection of stationary Gaussian signals in a background of stationary Gaussian noise by the analog multiplier correlator, the polarity coincidence correlator (PCC), and the sample polarity coincidence correlator (SPCC) is considered. It is assumed that signal and noise have identical normalized autocovariance functions, and they are not cross correlated with each other. The main contributions of this paper are the exact expressions for the output signal-to-noise ratio (SNR) for the correlators mentioned for all values of the input SNR. It is shown that there exists a critical value of the input SNR, such that, whenever this value is exceeded, the PCC output SNR exceeds that of the analog correlator. A sufficient condition for this gain in output SNR is obtained in terms of the input SNR. This result is illustrated for stationary Gauss-Markov processes."
"One simple method of data compression relies on the approximation of the source output by polynomial segments or \"interpolators.\" The parameters of each polynomial are transmitted in place of the original data. This paper presents a method of theoretically analyzing such techniques. Straight line interpolation is considered specifically although the ideas can he readily generalized. It is shown that the class of compression methods considered may or may not perform well depending on the data and, thus, that in some cases more complex techniques, including possibly adaptive methods, might he used, depending on the knowledge of the data statistical model."
"The measurement of linear time-varying systems and the mapping of densely distributed radar targets provide the motivation for the problem of estimation of linear multidimensional weighting functions in Gaussian noise. The assumption that the weighting function to be estimated is a sample of a Gaussian process of known autocorrelation function, and the adoption of either a maximum a posteriori probability or a minimum mean-square error criterion for the excellence of the estimate reduces the estimation problem to that of the solution of a Fredholm equation, the kernel of which is a generalization of Woodward's ambiguity function. A unique solution is assured if the statistics involved have sufficiently short correlation intervals. Closed-form solutions to the Fredholm equation, in particular two-dimensional cases of time- and frequency-shifted signals, are obtained over infinite domains of the weighting function by using Fourier and Wiener-Hopf techniques, and over finite domains by solving the eigenvalue problem of the ambiguity function. Generally speaking, the estimation error decreases with the decrease in the domain area; within a domain of unit area, perfect reproduction can be approached by increasing the SNR, in agreement with previous resuits on strictly noiseless measurement of linear systems. The appropriate \"optimum\" signal processor performs on the received signal a linear operation that is, essentially, an \"inversion\" of the eigenvalue spectrum of the ambiguity function; the extent of inversion is,limited:by its accentuation of the additive noise of the interference from neighboring areas of the domain. Only under extreme circumstances of constant eigenvalue spectra or of vanishing signal-to-noise ratios is the optimum processor equivalent to a \"matched filter.\" The performances of the optimum processor and of the matched filter are compared in several examples."
"The unsupervised estimation problem has received considerable attention during the last three years. The problem usually considered, however, is only one of a class of unsupervised estimation problems. In this paper, a \"mixture approach\" defined previously is used to define this class of unsupervised estimation problems, and state precisely the a priori knowledge used to define each problem. After using available a priori knowledge to construct precisely the mixture appropriate to the unsupervised problem, the parameters characterizing this particular unsupervised problem can be estimated, or a Bayes minimum conditional risk receiver can be constructed. The class of unsupervised estimation problems includes the following cases: unknown number of pattern classes, dependent observation vectors, nonstationary class probabilities, more than one vector observation taken with a single class active, lack of synchronization, and unsupervised learning control and communications."
"Techniques are discussed for using cloud maps (observations) made on a moving cloud of particles to predict the cloud's future location and shape. The amorphous cloud concept is used to model particle clouds in terms of surfaces moving through state space. Observations are modeled by possibly 'noisy' surfaces obtained by projecting the state space cloud onto the observation space. Deterministic and maximum likelihood 'type' prediction techniques are defined. Explicit algorithms are derived for deterministic prediction in the case of linear dynamics and ellipsoidal cloud maps. These algorithms include a closed-form bound and a non-linear programming technique that was successfully implemented. The analysis is motivated by the problem of a radar observing a cloud of chaff particles in orbit (on a ballistic trajectory) around the earth."
"The signal-to-noise ratio at a single-element detector scanning a television picture can be improved if the detector receives light from many picture elements simultaneously. This paper describes a scanning reticle, with transparent and opaque elements chosen according to a binary biorthogonal sequence, that will provide an exact reproduction in the same scanning time as a reticle scanning only one element at a time. For general pictures, the proposed system will require greater bandwidth, but for pictures consisting of only a few bright spots, the bandwidth can actually be compressed. This system provides a \"quick look\" picture in less than the usual scanning time, which is of particularly good fidelity if the original picture contains only a few bright spots."
"A nonlinear filtering scheme with noiseless feedback is presented, based on a consideration of the minimum-mean-squared error filtering of independent signal samples corrupted by additive noise. The explicit solution for the general case is very complex. However, if the signal-to-noise ratio is assumed to be large and the nonlinear estimating filter has zero memory, the problem may be simplified by reducing it to the zero-memory prefiltering problem combined with predictive feedback. The improvement over the linear case without feedback is shown to be the product of the improvements due to the zero-memory non-linearities and the feedback. An example is considered to illustrate the improvements in the error,"
"The number of(n - m)terms as a function of the length between their recurrence is derived for maximal length linearn-stage shift-register generated sequences. An(n - m)term is defined as that state remaining following specification ofmcomponents, of thencomponent shift-register state, as \"don't care\" variables. The derivation makes application of the cycle-and-add property for such sequences. The distribution is shown to be of value(2^{m} - 1)for all recurrence lengths less than the period of the sequence and of value(2^{n} - 1)when the recurrence length is equal to the period of the sequence. [1] In addition, it is concluded that the distribution of(n - m)terms for de Bruijn sequences (maximal-length nonlinear recursions) is dependent upon(n - m)term construction."
"The reviewer feels the author has succeeded, where many have failed, in writing a textbook for a course in detection and estimation theory. Derived from course notes, this text includes many of the peripheral structures which make a book suitable for classroom. Among them are numerous examples, over 120 pages of problems and a l2-page glossary of notation. The text is well referenced and is indexed by both subject and author."
"It is shown that the Poisson transform used in the statistical theory of photodetection corresponds to a simple sign measurement and has mathematical properties which suggest its use in other areas of signal theory."
"Noise cancellation systems that in essence form the ratio between the detected videos of two different channels have frequently been used to reduce the effects of continuous external interference. As yet, no quantitative treatment of such systems is available in the literature. This paper examines the statistical properties of the cancelled video output and determines such quantities as false-alarm probability and probability of detection in terms of threshold setting and signal-to-interference ratio. In general, for optimum detectability two distinct thresholds are required (in contrast to conventional detection systems), although specific numerical results are given for the more practical, suboptimum cases of a single threshold and a symmetrical dual threshold. Both a nonfiuctuating target and a Rayleigh fading target are considered."
"Connections between the theorems of Bussgang, Price, McMahon, Novikov, and Wiener are established, and new theorems are introduced for nonlinear functionals of Gaussian random processes by the use of functional calculus. In particular, Novikov's formula is extended to obtain an expression for the Wiener-Hermite kernels of a functional in terms of its functional derivatives."
"This paper deals with the time jitter caused by noise in a trigger circuit; specifically with its probability density (PD). The model adopted for the circuit assumes that the initiation of switching occurs at the instant when the front of the input signal crosses some reference level. The time jitter is defined as the fluctuation of the initiation time due to the presence of an additive noise. It is shown that, when the corrupted signal has one crossing at the reference level, the PD of the jitter is given by the crossing rate at the same level. This rate, in turn, is known in the case of a general uncorrupted signal added to a stationary Gaussian noise. Hence, the PD is determined for various examples of uncorrupted signals. In many cases, the PI) tends rapidly to the Gaussian law as the signal-to-noise ratio (SNR) becomes larger. In other cases the deviation from the Gaussian law remains significant even for large SNRs. It is also shown that the one-crossing situation occurs in most cases of practical interest, specifically when the SNR is fairly large and the noise is spectrally of the same order of magnitude as the signal. Finally, the case is considered where the signal and the additive noise are prefiltered by low-pass systems."
"First- and second-order stochastic gradient algorithms are developed for suitably approximating the unknown density and distribution functions of a random vector from a sequence of independent samples. The mean-square-error criterion and the integral-square-error criterion are used in the approximations. The rates of convergence and the approximation error are also evaluated."
"An upper bound is derived for the probability of error of a digital communication system subject to intersymbol interference and Gaussian noise. The bound is applicable to multilevel as well as binary signals and to all types of intersymbol interference. The bound agrees with the exponential portion of a normal distribution in which the larger intersymbol interference components subtract from the signal amplitude, and the smaller components add to the noise power. The results are applied to the case of random binary signaling with sinx/xpulses. It is shown that such signals are not so sensitive to timing error as is commonly believed, nor does the total signal amplitude become very large with significant probability. However, the error probability does grow very rapidly as the system bandwidth is reduced below the Nyquist band."
"Expressions are derived for the moments of the distribution of weights ofM-tuples or subsequences of longm-sequences. The expressions display a systematic relationship between the moments and the characteristic polynomial or generating function. An algorithm for determining the third moment, which measures skewness, is shown to provide a practical aid for selecting optimum m-sequences for various correlation-detection design problems."
"Two new classes of type-B1 burst-error-correcting convolutional codes are introduced. One of them requires a shorter length of guard space and a smaller number of shift register stages than optimum type-B2 codes used for type-B1 burst correction. Another class of codes improves the required number of shift register stages considerably when the correctable burst length is very large. In addition, these codes require a very short length of additional guard space to restore the decoder to correct operation after a decoding failure. Both classes of codes are derived in a straightforward manner and their implementations are also very simple. Thus, we can avoid type-B2 code procedures to correct type-B1 bursts. The codes derived here result in the more efficient and simply implemented type-B1 burst-correcting convolutional codes."
"A study of the efficiency, error-correcting capabilities, and limitations of graph theoretic block codes is presented. Augmentation of graph theoretic codes and their generation is discussed. It is shown that such augmentation techniques can substantially increase the level of efficiency of these codes and potentially could increase it to the level of the best available codes. Furthermore, the augmented graph theoretic codes are shown to be easily decodable."
"This special issue on the use of coding and error-control techniques comprises four papers and two correspondences. Four of these articles are concerned with communication over burst-noise channels, one reports on sequential decoding over an essentially additive Gaussian noise channel, and one examines the source encoding of analog waveforms for transmission over a noisy binary channel. Coding can provide significant if not dramatic improvements in communication over certain channels in certain instances. Several of these instances are detailed in the papers in this issue. One is struck in reading these papers, however, that, with but one exception (diffuse coding), most of the applications are still experimental. The widespread use of coding is not yet here."
"It is shown, under weak assumptions on the density function of a random variable and under weak assumptions on the error criterion, that uniform quantizing yields an output entropy which asymptotically is smaller than that for any other quantizer, independent of the density function or the error criterion. The asymptotic behavior of the rate distortion function is determined for the class of\\nuth law loss functions, and the entropy of the uniform quantizer is compared with the rate distortion function for this class of loss functions. The extension of these results to the quantizing of sequences is also given. It is shown that the discrepancy between the entropy of the uniform quantizer and the rate distortion function apparently lies with the inability of the optimal quantizing shapes to cover large dimensional spaces without overlap. A comparison of the entropies of the uniform quantizer and of the minimum-alphabet quantizer is also given."
"The estimation of the scattering function of a random, zero-mean, homogeneous, time-variant, linear filter is considered. The sum of the random filter output and independent noise is the input to an estimator. The estimator structure is equivalent to a bank of linear filters followed by squared-envelope detectors; the envelope detector outputs are the input to a final linear filter. The estimator output is shown to be an unconstrained linear operation on the ambiguity function of the estimator input. Except for a bias term due to the additive noise, the mean of the estimator output is an unconstrained linear operation on the scattering function of the random filter. The integral variance of the output is found for a Gaussian channel. The mean and variance clearly indicate the tradeoff between resolution and variance reduction obtained by varying the estimator structure. For any well-behaved channel it is shown that an effectively unbiased estimate of the scattering function can be obtained if the input signal has both sufficient energy and enough time and frequency spread to resolve the random filter; the random filter is not required to be underspread. The variance of an estimate can be further reduced by increasing the time or frequency spread of the transmitted signal."
"A sufficient condition involving a hypothesis of mean-square convergence is given for the convergence of discrimination information. A stronger condition requiring uniform convergence has already been given. An example is given which satisfies the mean-square convergence hypothesis but not the uniform convergence hypothesis."
"A study of linear estimators that minimize the variance of the error squared is reported. A projection principle and a sufficiency test establish and verify minimality. When the signal process and the data process are jointly Gaussian, the problem is completely solved for unique absolutely minimizing operators, which are found to be a cascade of the classical minimum-mean-squared error estimator and an amplifier."
"An upper bound estimate on the Bayes misclassification error is derived using a kernel function to estimate probability density functions. As a result of this bound, a relationship between a Euclidean distance and a probability of misclassification is indicated."
"The number of straight-line sequences and the probability of observing any straight-line sequence are given for a uniformM-level independent data source withTsample sequences."
"A recent work by the authors describes a new class of nonparametric statistics formed by summing the rank statistics on data subsets of a fixed number of sample valuesm. This paper derives the locally-most-powerful tests of this class under the assumption of independent sampling."
"A new criterion for measuring separability of two pattern classes is given that is based on the determination of an averaged minimum distance from the mean feature vectors of two classes to an optimal separating hypersurface determined by Baye's postulate."
"This paper considers the joint optimization of a class of radar signals and filters in a number of clutter-pins-noise environments. The radar signal processor in this case will be optimum in the sense that its output at the time of target detection yields the maximum ratio of peak signal power to total interference power. If the interference at the input to this signal processor is a Gaussian random process, this processor also yields the maximum probability of detection for a given value of false-alarm probability. The signals used are pulse trains and the filters are tapped delay lines. The purpose of signal design is to determine the optimum complex weighting for each pulse of the pulse train. Filter design yields the optimum complex weighting for the output taps of the delay line. Filter design for a specified signal is considered first. This is followed by combined signal and filter design and matched filter design. Constrained signal and filter design is investigated last. It should be emphasized that the optimizations require a knowledge of the clutter time-frequency distribution. For practical situations, when the clutter distribution is unknown, an adaptive filter is proposed that automatically provides the optimum filter weights for a given transmitted signal. When the clutter has a range-time extent less than the equivalent range-time extent of the signal, filter design alone yields nearly optimum performance. As the clutter becomes extended in range-time, it is necessary to consider jointly the design of signal and filter to obtain an optimum radar signal processor. In this report it is suggested that the signal be designed under the assumption of the clutter being extended over a broad range of Dopplers and that the signal processor consist of a bank of adaptive filters. Then each filter output yields the maximum ratio of peak signal to total interference power for this signal design."
"A method proposed by Pickard for estimating the center frequency of the power spectrum of a Gaussian process is analyzed in terms of the mean and variance of the estimator. Through limiting and differentiation, this method consists essentially of counting zero-crossings with positive and negative weights so that our analysis of the center-frequency estimator sheds some light on the zero-crossing problem. A simple expression for the variance of the estimator is obtained by a novel application of Price's theorem for zero-memory nonlinear devices with Gaussian inputs. The effects of nonideal limiting and, hence, nonideal counting upon the mean and variance of the estimator are examined in detail. The mathematical techniques employed are felt to have potential usefulness for related problems in communication theory."
"An optimum system for transmitting a sample function from a stationary second order process over the BSC in real time is formulated under the mean-integral-square error criterion. The optimum number of channel bits and the optimum assignment of these bits to the samples is determined for the SGM process withR(\\tau) = \\exp(-|\\tau}). The system error is evaluated and compared to the error performances of systems using time sampling with and without data compression. Shannon's information rate is also computed for these systems and compared to the theoretical limit and to Goblick's BSQC digitizer. We also present a waveform representation technique based on Hotelling's method of principal components. The waveform-to-vector converter consists of a time sampler followed by a digital filter, and the vector-to-waveform reconstructor consists of a digita filter followed by a linear interpolator. Performance is shown to be comparable to KL sampling."
"A new logical basis for information theory as well as probability theory is proposed, based on computing complexity."
"This paper is concerned with the minimum mean-squared error (MMSE) nonlinear prediction of a class of random processes. A class of random processes is defined by the property that its MMSE zero-memory predictor is represented by a finite sum of separable terms. Sufficient conditions for the existence of such processes are also considered. The nonlinear predictor is restricted to be composed of a linear filter in parallel with a zero-memory nonlinearity (ZNL) preceded by a variable delay, The optimum predictor is shown to be the solution of linear integral equations with the same kernel as for the optimum linear predictor. The first step of the derivation also yields a simpler scheme which ,only requires the addition of a ZNL to the optimum linear predictor. The improvements in the MMSE of the two nonlinear systems over the linear case are compared and illustrated by a numerical example."
"Band-limited pulse trains derived from a discrete stochastic process are considered. An upper bound is obtained for the average probability that the magnitude of the departure of the instantaneous signal value from the mean signal value exceeds\\lambdatimes the standard deviation, as a function of\\lambda. This upper bound is useful in the analysis and prediction of intersymbol interference, quantizing errors, and digit errors in digital data communication systems."
"A computer-oriented algorithm is developed for designing optimum waveforms for a pulse-position-modulation communication system. Nonlinear modulation threshold effects are incorporated directly into the design by introducing constraints on the sidelobe peaks of the autocorrelation function. The search is performed over the class of signals satisfying constraints on average power, peak power, and bandwidth. The optimum signal in this class is the one whose autocorrelation function has the sharpest central peak while the sidelobe peaks are below the specified constraint level. Numerical results for a realistic problem are presented, and the effect of introducing the correlation and peak power constraints is studied. It is shown that a large reduction in the sidelobe peaks is possible with relatively little loss in the sharpness of the central peak."
"The minimum rms (root-mean-square) bandwidth ofMreal equi-energy time-limited signals is derived for the case of either a specified code or a specified correlation matrix. The minimum bandwidth depends only on the nonzero characteristic roots of the correlation matrix, or equivalently, of a matrix derived from column properties of the code. The optimum waveforms depend additionally on the characteristic vectors of the respective matrix and are given by linear combinations of a time-limited fundamental sine wave and its harmonics. An upper bound on the minimum rms bandwidth is approximately proportional to the rank of either matrix. Applications to several codes and correlation matrices are given, including some best binary group codes, which indicate a worthwhile saving of bandwidth for the optimum waveforms as compared with conventional waveforms. The energy concentration of these optimum rms waveforms compares very favorably with that of the time-truncated prolate spheroidal wave functions, which concentrate most energy in an assigned frequency band. Furthermore, the optimum rms waveforms are easier to generate and process."
"A reasonable model for the atmosphere as an optical communication channel is presented and then reduced, with some approximation, to an equal-strength diversity system. By using the realistic assumption of a very large variance for the channel's random phase, the operations that the maximum-likelihood receiver must perform are determined. This resulting receiver is also a min-max receiver. Functional bounds to the error probability that results with orthogonal waveforms are determined. The variation of these bounds with the energy-to-noise ratio per diversity path and with the amount of atmospheric turbulence is discussed, and numerical results are presented for the low-rate (union-bound) performance. These results demonstrate that the error probability depends strongly on the amount of turbulence. However, if the amount of diversity can be controlled, the minimum energy-to-noise ratio per information bit for which the error probability can be made to vanish is independent of the turbulence. This minimum is just that which would exist in the absence of turbulence."
"A Gilbert bound for periodic binary convolutional (PBC) codes is established. This bound shows that regardless of previous decoding decisions any fraction of errors less than\\alpha/2can be corrected in a constraint length by some PBC code if the constraint length is sufficiently large andR, the code rate, is less than[1 - H(\\alpha)]/2, 0 \\leq \\alpha < \\frac{1}{2}."
"Simultaneously orthogonal expansion of two processes is one of the major mathematical tools for solving the problem of optimum detection of Gaussian signals in Gaussian noise. This expansion yields two integral equations: a homogeneous equation for the threshold and an inhomogeneous one for the test statistic of an optimum decision rule. After reviewing the optimum detection theory leading to the integral equations, four examples are presented to illustrate techniques of solving these equations and determination of the thresholds and test statistics. These techniques involve only elementary calculus and simple linear algebra. Finally, by way of example, an asymptotic interpretation of \"white noise\" in the context of optimum detection theory is given."
"The proposed detector uses three vector samples to decide which one of two distinct stationary or quasi-stationary stochastic processes is present at its input. A reference sample is obtained from each of the two processes during an initial learning interval, and the third sample is taken on the decision interval. It is assumed that independent samples can be obtained from the stochastic processes. A weighted linear combination of two2-sample Mann-Whitney statistics defined on the three vector samples is used at the detector. An upper bound on the asymptotic or large-sample error probability is obtained, which indicates that, unlike the2-sample detector, the new detector is insensitive to the {\\em a priori} signal probability and operates well in an unspecified environment. Comparisons are made between the proposed model and the standard2-sample model at both small and large values of signal-to-noise ratio. An extension to intermediate values of signal-to-noise ratio is obtained by considering two examples, dc signal in additive noise and Lehmann's nonparametric class of alternatives. Owing mainly to an invariant optimum threshold setting, the proposed procedure results in a significantly better performance over a wide range of signal-to-noise ratio."
"The generation of cyclically orthogonal binary codes of the same least period is discussed. It will be shown that pairs of cyclically orthogonal binary sequences of length and least periodN = 2^{k}rcan be synthesized for all integerskand any nonprime odd integer r. The structure of these codes is self-evident from the synthesis; hence, codes of any given length of the indicated form are readily obtained. Bounds on the maximum possible number of mutually cyclically orthogonal binary sequences of the same least period are also presented."
"The suitability of using error-correction coding to improve the performance of an HF AUTODIN circuit is investigated. It is demonstrated that coding is not a practical method of improving the performance of HF AUTODIN circuits that possess good frequency complements and can make effective use of them."
"The performance of a sequential decoder on data transmitted on a spacecraft link was demonstrated on February 26, 1968, culminating a series of experiments utilizing Lunar Orbiter V and the Deep Space Net (DSN) Echo station. It was demonstrated that sequential decoding can perform on a spacecraftlink as well as was predicted by theoretical results and laboratory experiments. Performance is significantly better than that of practical block codes. For example, an erasure probability of10^{-4}can be attained using sequential decoding with2dB less signal-to-noise ratio than required to attain an error probability of10^{-4}using a(32,6)biorthogonal code and maximum-likelihood decoding."
"This paper discusses the use of two types of convolutional codes, diffuse threshold-decoded codes and Gallager codes, on channels with memory (burst channels). The operation of these codes is explained and test results are given for a variety of equipments operated over phone line, HF radio, and troposcatter channels. Error propagation in the threshold-decoded codes is discussed and, in the Appendix, we prove that, for one important diffuse code, propagation is finite and small."
"This paper describes the application of selected block and convolutional coding techniques to digital transmission over an HF radio channel. Performance results are presented for interleaved binary Bose-Chaudhuri-Hocquenghem (BCH) codes, interleaved two-stage concatenated codes, and diffuse convolutional codes. The performance results are based upon raw error data recorded in transmission over a 640-km HF path, with various data runs representing the typical effects of frequency-selective and non-selective fading, atmospheric impulse noise, and interference from other users of the HF band. The performance of binary BCH codes with bit interleaving is presented and the selection of a code to meet a specified performance criterion is described. The sensitivity of specific codes to changing channel conditions is presented, along with the cost, in terms of interleaving, of designing for one set of channel conditions rather than others. Concatenated codes are discussed as a means of effective error control on channels with clustered errors. Performance data are presented for selected two-stage codes used with inner-stage word interleaving and the effects of varying certain of the code parameters are shown. Emphasis is placed on code designs that use the inner-stage code only for error detection and the outer-stage code mainly for erasure filling with only a small amount of symbol error correction. The impact of error clustering on the performance of concatenated codes is discussed. Two diffuse convolutional codes are evaluated with the use of recorded error data in computer simulations of their threshold-decoding algorithms. Performance of various configurations of these convolutional codes is given and a comparison is made with that of a simple block coding scheme having the same decoder storage requirements. The various coding techniques studied are compared on the basis of achievable performance as well as certain factors affecting the feasibility of implementation."
"The clustering of errors on real channels seriously complicates the task of evaluating the performance of error-control techniques. A model is introduced that, in addition to having the ability to match error distributions, greatly simplifies the task of code evaluations. Having selected the parameters of the model by matching the statistics recorded by Townsend and Watts on the switched telephone network, the model is shown to predict the results of tests of an interleaved burst-error-correcting code. The utility of the model is demonstrated in the analysis of error-detection codes with delayed retransmissions."
"A class of cyclic codes is introduced by a polynomial approach that is an extension of the Mattson-Solomon method and of the Muller method. This class of codes contains several important classes of codes as subclasses, namely, BCH codes, Reed-Solomon codes, generalized primitive Reed-Muller codes, and finite geometry codes. Certain fundamental properties of this class of codes are derived. Some subclasses are shown to be majority-logic decodable."
"A distribution-free procedure applicable to the detection of a signal in some element of a multiple-resolution-element radar is described. The procedure is based on rank-order statistics and is applicable to either a sequential or fixed-sample-size test; however, emphasis is placed on the sequential procedure. Results are given showing the expected sample size and probability of detection for the case of envelope detection (square-law or linear) of a fluctuating signal (Swerling model 2). A comparison is made with the optimum parametric sequential procedure."
"Let two sets of patterns be represented by two finite point sets in ann-dimensional Euclidean spaceE^{n}. If the convex hulls of the two sets do not intersect, the sets can be strictly separated by a plane. Such a plane can be constructed by the Motzkin-Schoenberg error-correction procedure or by linear programming. More often than not, however, the convex hulls of the two point sets do intersect, in which case strict separation by a plane is not possible any more. One may then resort to separation by more than one plane. In this paper, we show how two sets can be strictly separated by one or more planes or surfaces (nonlinear manifolds) via linear programming. A computer program that implements the present method has been written and successfully tested on a number of real problems."
"This paper presents a general approach to the derivation of series expansions of second-order wide-sense stationary mean-square continuous random process valid over an infinite-time interval. The coefficients of the expansion are orthogonal and convergence is in the mean-square sense. The method of derivation is based on the integral representation of such processes. It covers both the periodic and the aperiodic cases. A constructive procedure is presented to obtain an explicit expansion for a given spectral distribution."
"Instead of estimating correlation functions by conventional means, a specific polarity scheme may be used on bounded processes. The method is based on a rather simple relationship between the correlation functions before and after infinite clipping, provided that stochastic reference signals of uniform distribution are added to the process. This correlation technique has been known for some time. Because of the apparent computational advantages, its application to the estimation of correlation functions from discrete or sampled data is being examined. A general derivation of the appropriate moment relationship is given and a complete mean-square error analysis of estimates is provided under the assumption of white-noise-type reference signals. It is shown that correlation function estimates obtained by this polarity method possess a mean-square error that differs from the error of conventional estimates only by a term proportional to1/N, whereNis the sample size. This term may be made arbitrarily small. Thus, only small degradations in the accuracy of estimates have to be expected when using the polarity approach."
"An extension of Goethals' results [3] is presented. Cyclic codes of composite block lengthn = n_{1}n_{2}withn_{1}andn_{2}relatively prime are considered. By using a modified form of the Mattson-Solomon formulation [5], some lower bounds on the minimum weight are obtained. These lower bounds improve on the BCH bound [4] for a considerable number of nonprimitive BCH codes."
"It is shown that the Shannon sampling expansion for finite-energy bandlimited signals is a special case of the Parseval relation for complex Fourier series."
"The optimum finite set of linear observables for discriminating between two Gaussian random processes is derived. The observables are sampled outputs of a set of filters whose impulse responses are shown to be eigenfunctions of a certain integral equation."
"Several different methods of obtaining contrast for electron microscopy of magnetic specimens are reviewed. For the investigation of magnetization ripple and the structure of domain walls in magnetic films, two questions must be considered: the correct wave optical interpretation of Lorentz micrographs and the experimental attainment of coherence of the electron beam. Both questions have been sufficiently explored so that experimental results on magnetic film microstructure may be expected in the near future."
"Susceptibility measurements at 5000 Hz have been performed in the easy and hard directions on two 80-20 Permalloy films (1000 Å, 1 cm in diameter) cut from large samples. The experimental results agree with the predictions of the Hoffmann theory. The susceptibility parallel to the average direction ofMis found to be proportional to1/(H - H_{k})^{7/4}or1/(H_{k} - H)^{7/4}when the net field is large enough to prevent blocking."
"Polycrystalline lithium ferrite samples were subjected to a variety of heat treatments. The most effective process in raising the sample resistivity was the oxidation process. The efficiencies of these heat treatment processes were compared. Effects of heat treatments on the thermoelectric, microwave line width, and dielectric properties of the samples were also reported."
"Measurements of the magnetoelastic sensitivity of electrodeposited 1 μ cylindrical Ni-Fe films indicate that the magnetostriction of these films becomes more positive upon annealing. A composition gradient has been observed through the thickness of these films. In addition, electron diffraction results indicate that the composition gradient is substantially reduced during an anneal at 250 °C. To understand the change in magnetoelastic sensitivity the effect of the composition gradient has been considered. The change in the magnetoelastic sensitivity due to the elimination of the composition gradient is shown to be in agreement with observed changes."
"A semi-empirical differential equation for the local dynamic behavior of a twistor wire is combined with demagnetization equations to yield a set of equations that describe, to the first order, the dynamic switching of a twistor wire segment. The dynamic equation expressesMas a function ofM , H, andH, contains several adjustable parameters, and has solutions which agree with most of the observed first-order magnetic switching phenomena. When coupled with the demagnetization equations described in an earlier paper, a complete solution of the averageM(z,t), together with the demagnetizing fieldHd(z,t)is readily generated by standard numerical methods. A solution so generated appears to be realistic, though experimental verification has not been attempted."
"The case of magnetization reversal in a boundless plate of magnetically homogeneous material is treated in the framework of micromagnetics. It is assumed that the magnetocrystalline symmetry axis and the applied field lie along the normal of the plate surface. The mathematical analysis performed facilitates the determination of the nucleation field in an exact analytical way, leading to the conclusion that nucleation takes place by spin rotation in unison. Some indirect experimental evidences are discussed."
"Evidence of the existence of origins of perpendicular anisotropy other than the ordinary magnetostrictive effect is presented with a brief review of other studies. As one of these origins, the effect of the grain boundaries or the microscopic shape effect is discussed. The amount of perpendicular anisotropy observed in the stripped films does not seem capable of explanation by this effect only."
"This investigation covers: a) control of characteristics of electrodeposited vs. vacuum deposited Permalloy films; b) the preparation of substrates for electrodeposition; c) aging kinetics of electrodeposited NiFeSxfilms from 60° to 90°C; and d) comparison of aging of NiFeSxfilms with electrodeposited films containing other impurities, e.g., NiFeP, and with films made by other techniques, e.g., vacuum deposition. The concluding discussion is principally concerned with aging effects."
"The experimental and theoretical concept concerning the magnetic properties of 2-dimensional arrangements of small particles with different strengths of interaction is discussed. Taking into account recent results on isolated small single-domain particles, a representation for a whole scale of possible structures from these to closely packed ferromagnetic films is given, using a molecular field formalism. The interaction considered may be much weaker than the full ferromagnetic exchange coupling. The resultant collective magnetizationMof such aggregates of small particles may be considerably lower than their spontaneous magnetization Ms. A transition temperature TAtowards occurrence of superparamag-netism may appear that is well below the Curie temperature Θ of the individual particles. These effects seem to be consistent with experimental data obtained by a number of authors using various methods of measurement. Observations of time effects at magnetization reversals in very thin films also support the aforementioned model."
"Provides a histoey of the events leading to the Third International Colloquium on Magnetic Films (Boston, Massachusetts, 18-20 September 1967)."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Various applications of the Faraday and Kerr effects for the investigation of domain structures and reversal mechanisms in thin ferromagnetic films are reviewed. Different optical arrangements for the observation of domains are described and compared. Using magnetooptic microscopy domains and wall structures can be observed with a resolution of 1 μm. Magnetization structures give rise to diffraction phenomena, which are revealed as Fresnel fringes, Fraunhofer patterns, and dark field pictures. Applications of these phenomena and the consequences for the resolution of magneto-optic microscopy are discussed. Various kinds of reversal processes by wall motion or rotation, respectively, can be distinguished from each other by measuring the light intensity in two settings of the analyzer and by a dark field method. These reversal mechanisms can be identified even in case of fast switching when direct observations are not possible. Since the applications of magnetooptics are not restricted by any temperature limit, they are especially suited for the investigation of temperature dependent phenomena, e.g., the Barkhausen effect and the magnetic aftereffect. A picture of a domain structure in a gadolinium film at 80°K is shown."
"A one-dimensional wall is one in which the magnetization does not vary throughout the thickness of the ferromagnetic film nor along the length of the wall. There are three types of one dimensional walls: Bloch, Néel, and intermediate. The results of calculations of the structure, width, and type of walls as a function of film thickness and wall angle are discussed. The Néel wall width is inversely proportional to wall angle and to film thickness plus a constant. The Bloch wall width is proportional to the square root of film thickness plus a constant. The transition between Néel and intermediate walls is marked by an abrupt change of slope in the hard-axis hysteresis loop."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"Flux reversal in thin magnetic films with uniaxial anisotropy is known to occur by domain wall motion if the externally applied field is only slightly above the wall motion threshold field. For sufficiently large fields applied at an angle with respect to the easy axis, reversal takes place by coherent rotation. However, the reversal process observed over a substantial field range immediately above the rotational threshold is neither simple wall motion nor simple coherent rotation. Four different models are reviewed which have been proposed for this third type of flux reversal process. These models were developed by Stein, Harte, Vinogradov, and Fuchikami, and it is concluded that no single model offers a complete description of this third process."
"A review is given about the assumptions the development, and the results of the ripple theory. The limits of the linear theory are pointed out. The result of this theory shows a very strong coupling of the magnetization dispersion perpendicular to the mean magnetization, which is caused by the internal demagnetizing field. The exchange constant of this magnetostatic coupling exceeds the quantum mechanical exchange constantAby orders of magnitude. The nonlinear ripple theory includes the component of the internal demagnetizing field parallel to the mean magnetization. This field becomes important when the rms values of the magnetization dispersion are\\gapprox 2\\deg. The nonlinear theory explains all deviations from a single domain behavior without introducing any special model."
"Developments which led to the observation of spin-wave resonance (SWR) spectra in metallic films are presented. The method is discussed with special emphasis placed on the selection of suitable film samples, the counting of resonance peaks, the assignment of mode numbers, the applicability of inhomogeneity models, and the electromagnetic corrections usually applied to the measured dispersion of the long-wavelength spin-wave peaks. Then, in a review of applications of the method, several points of interpretation which arose subsequent to the publication of the results, are discussed. Finally, some future uses of the SWR method are listed."
"A coupling between the magnetization of two ferromagnetic films separated by a thin metallic layer has been observed. It is shown that when the intermediate layer is palladium the coupling results from diffusion of magnetic atoms into the palladium which makes it weakly ferromagnetic. The main systems in which ferro-antiferromagnetic coupling is observed are Co-CoO, Ni-NiO, FeNi-FeNiMn. In the latter case domain patterns and ripple are observed by electron microscopy."
"A survey of experimental results for magnetic anisotropy induced during evaporation and annealing of polycrystalline Ni-Fe alloy films is given. Existing data for the uniaxial anisotropy constantKappear to be bounded from above by the combined predictions of strain and directional-ordering theories. The strain anisotropy frequently attains theoretical values, and often less, while directional-ordering anisotropy in high-vacuum films (circa 10-5torr) generally attains half or less of theoretical expectations."
"The present status of the theory of saturation magnetization of ferromagnetic thin films is reviewed. The extensions of the Heisenberg trace method and the spin-wave method to the case of ferromagnetic thin films is fully discussed together with a comparison of the theoretical results with experimental data. The effect of anisotropic magnetic fields on magnetization and Curie temperature is presented, and the dependence of the magnetization and Curie temperature on film thickness is studied. Very recent progress and new results of the theory are stressed. The application of the Green function method to ferromagnetic thin films is also examined."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"An analysis of the magnetoresistance effect used as a displacement transducer shows that the device is more sensitive in the moving armature mode of operation than it is in the moving element mode. An experimental sensitivity of1.1 \\times 10^{2}V/m was readily achieved. This was in good agreement with the calculated sensitivity, showing that the performance of the device can be accurately predicted."
"Thin magnetic films may be employed as storage elements of a sampling recorder for measuring transient signals. By writing into successive films with a given signal at known time intervals and then utilizing the magnetization transfer characteristics, i.e., readout voltage versus write current, a time-amplitude reconstruction of the signal can be obtained. This mode of operation for a coupled thin magnetic film configuration, along with the difficulties in nondestructively reading out the film, is discussed."
"The dynamic magnetostrictive properties of materials and their applications will be reviewed. The order of presentation is to first discuss the various dynamic magnetostriction contentsK(defined by Smith), λ and γ (defined by Butterworth and Smith), and Γ (defined by the present author). Next, the application of the magnetic domain theory to dynamic magnetostriction will be presented. The ΔE-effect, a useful material criterion, will then be examined. Experimental results of the electromechanical coupling factor at an optimum bias are then shown. The second section of the paper will present the magnetostrictive characteristics of Ni, Ni-Fe alloys, Fe-Al alloys, other metals, cobalt rondel, and the ferrites. Much of the emphasis will be placed on the effects of cold reduction, hysteresis phenomena, and the effects of oxide films. Empirical formulas which describe these properties are presented. Large amplitude ferrite vibrators are described. The third part of the study is devoted to a phenomological method of predicting the magnetostrictive characteristics of polycrystalline metals. Experimental data for iron which agrees with the model is presented. The effect of anisotropic grain growth is discussed in terms of the model. The last section is devoted to the mechanical power limitations of magnetostrictive vibrators both from the theoretical and the experimental points of view."
"A general method for the calculation of parallel pump instability thresholds of magnetoelastic waves is presented. The analysis takes into account variation in direction of applied field and propagation vector in the crystal lattice, and the effects of magnetoelastic anisotropy are included. It is found that variation in the direction of propagation is expected to modify the shape of experimentally observed phonon pips, and experimental results are presented in accordance with this view. The values obtained for elasticQfactors using this interpretation of the data are considerably lower than those obtained under the usual assumption of propagation in the plane normal to the steady field. An estimate is made of the influence of small elastic anisotropy on the observed line shape."
"The representation of the switching characteristics of the ferrite memory core by flux-charge curves and the derivation of significant design or application parameters for a new, undeveloped ferrite memory core are described. The technique used is that of appropriately scaling flux and charge by a computer program. User options permit computation of signal and noise amplitudes and waveforms, read current and percent flux switched, core height and threshold, or outer and inner diameters, depending on the information available as input data. Effects of parameter tolerances can be evaluated, and technology advances effecting device improvement can be indicated and accommodated."
"With recent trends towards miniaturization, the magnetic reed relay or dry reed switch has become so small that force measurement by ordinary mechanical methods is extremely difficult. However, knowledge of such forces enables the prediction and control of opening and closing currents, contact forces, and general behavior of the device. An experimental method is given of measuring the quasi-static magnetic attractive force between two bodies, however small, providing that an appropriate flux measurement can be made. The magnetic reed relay is treated as a specific example to demonstrate the utility of the measurement. The reed relay is defined as a closed thermodynamic system. A free energy is derived for this system and it is shown that the magnetic attractive force may be obtained from this free energy even when magnetic hysteresis is present. The use of the measurement in studying reed relay behavior is explained, and typical experimental findings are presented."
"A technique is described for the measurement of macroscopic magnetic relaxation times in crystals using the optical Faraday rotation as a monitor of the magnetization. The method is applied to the paramagnetic Eu2+ion in CaF2:Eu2+at cryogenic temperatures. In this experiment the crystal is placed between a crossed polarizer and analyzer and subjected to a pulsed magnetic field. The transmitted light from a CW argon-ion laser gives a direct indication of the relaxation time."
"In magnetic film memories incorporating a metal ground plate, the write noise, i.e., the sense-line voltage caused by application of the bit-current pulse, has a long \"tail.\" By an analysis of pulse propagation along a conductor with rectangular cross section above a stratified ground plate, it is shown that 1) the slow decay of the write noise is due to current diffusion into the ground plate, and 2) the time derivative of the write noise, which should be as small as possible for best rejection by the sense system, can be considerably reduced by a) an appropriate stratification of the ground plate, and b) keeping the ground plate at a low temperature. The most effective stratified ground plate consists of a top layer of copper separated from the substrate by a layer of a ferromagnetic conductor such as Permalloy. The relative permeability of the Permalloy layer μrneed not be greater than 100. If\\mu_{r} = 100, a Permalloy thickness of ≳ 1.5 microns makes the electrical properties of the ground plate independent of the substrate material. The optimum thickness of the copper layer is a function of the time interval between the end of the bit pulse and readout. A thick copper ground plate at liquid-nitrogen temperature is almost as effective in reducing the noise-voltage slope as the best stratified ground plate at room temperature."
"Permanent magnets are finding ever-increasing uses as magnet technology develops and materials improve. Permanent magnet materials are evaluated in terms of the geometry and configuration of the application for which they are intended. The origin of the properties of most modern permanent magnet materials is interpreted in terms of fine-particle theory. The fine-particle structures are produced either synthetically or by a solid-state precipitation reaction in an alloy. The preparation and properties of commercial magnets are described. The Alnico alloys are based on magnetically heat-treated iron-nickel-aluminum-cobalt alloys and account for the great majority of present-day production. Ferrites are finding increasing use. Elongated single-domain fine-particle magnets and other materials are used in smaller quantities. A number of interesting, not yet commercial, materials deriving their properties primarily from crystal anisotropy are described."
"Although small superconducting magnets have been in regular use in many laboratories for several years, it is only recently that the technical difficulties preventing the use of superconductors in large magnet systems have been overcome. A better understanding of the transient thermal and magnetic behavior of such devices has led to various methods of reducing or eliminating the degradation effects present in earlier magnets. The use of large amounts of very high conductivity normal metal in conjunction with the superconductor has resulted in \"stabilized\" magnets whose behavior is completely predictable and which will not quench except under unusual conditions. Other techniques have been developed to improve \"unstable\" magnets so that very high field coils can be constructed. These developments are dramatically altering the equipment used in high-energy physics and controlled thermonuclear experiments, and their effect on other areas of technology is already beginning to be felt."
"The crystal structure of ferrites including garnets and their methods of preparation are first reviewed. This is followed by an examination of microwave ferrite devices and their application to actual systems. Sufficient theoretical details as well as an extensive though not exhaustive list of references are included for ready reference. The most widely used microwave ferrite device is the isolator, a device which possesses nonreciprocal properties. The function of this device in various configurations is therefore studied in some detail. Then, ferrite-phase shifters, including the latching variety, circulators, modulators, power limiters, switches, amplifiers, delay lines, and filters are examined in turn. Microwave ferrite devices, in particular isolators and circulators, are commonly used in the laboratory. Other devices, such as modulators, limiters, and switches, are used respectively in microwave systems in carrier modulation, receiver protection, and antenna switching, etc. Much of the ferrite device research and development in recent years has been concerned with theY-junction circulator and the coincidence power limiter."
"Ferrites have been the dominant memory technology for 15 years. Ferrite memory systems are surveyed in the context of the advances which have been made in the technology over this period. Advances in organization, storage devices, drive and sense systems, and manufacturing techniques are reviewed. This discussion leads to a consideration of the future of the technology which takes into account the effect of other practical storage technologies."
"The factors which must be considered in a magnetic film memory system design are enumerated. Particular attention is given to optimizing the amount of flux in a storage cell and the minimum signal requirements. The analyses performed indicate that memory size, memory speed, memory organization, and integrated circuit drive capability determine optimum requirements for storage flux in a magnetic cell. Thermal noise in the sensing system establishes a minimum signal level as a function of memory speed and amplifier bandwidth."
"The interaction of light with matter involves the electronic structure of the matter. In particular, the interaction is affected by the magnetic state of the medium, and this gives rise to the magnetooptical effects. The Faraday, Kerr, and Voigt effects are described, and their derivation from Maxwell's equations and the constitutive relations are given. The microscopic origins of the effects are discussed heuristically. A few representative applications of the magnetooptic effects to magnetic recording and to the control of light are explained."
"The shapes of commonly observed nonideal Belson traces in cylindrical Permalloy films have been derived by considering a bimodal distribution of easy axes induced by annealing multidomain films in a hard-direction field. In the bimodal state the film behaves like a mixture of two differently skewed regions, each of which contributes additively to the Belson curve. In the simplest bimodal case, symmetrical traces are derived from which the intrinsic skew and dispersion angles can be determined. In general, complex asymmetrical Belson traces result when the effect of mode population and nonzero initial skew are considered. Bimodal traces can be avoided by setting the wire in a single domain state prior to hard field annealing. Erasure of a bimodal distribution requires the application of an easy direction field at a sufficiently high temperature for a sufficient period of time."
"Results of our experimental investigation on the magnetization, specific heat, and neutron diffraction in Fe-Co alloys are reported and interpreted by a statistical theory in B-W approximation. The exchange interactions between neighboring atoms in bcc are determined so that the theory reproduces the experimental magnetization versus temperature curves. The ordering energy is fixed so that the theory predicts the order-disorder transformation at 730°C as observed experimentally in the alloy with 50 atomic percent Co. The theory implies also that the nonmagnetic state, should it exist, would undergo the order-disorder transformation at about 550°C. An attempt is made to interpret the observed anomalies in terms of a coexistence of magnetic and nonmagnetic states in these alloys and to relate the specific heat with the neutron diffraction data."
"Inhomogeneity of induced uniaxial anisotropy in evaporated Permalloy thin films is found to be divided roughly into two classes, namely, intrinsic and extrinsic inhomogeneities. The former, which is the short wavelength component of the anisotropy change and results in the magnetization ripple, is found to originate mainly from the randomly oriented magnetocrystalline anisotropy and the magnetoelastic anisotropy in crystallites. The latter, the long wavelength component of the anisotropy change, seems to result from the same origin as that of the skew. Annealing experiments of the intrinsic angular dispersion showed that the activation energy of the relaxation process was about 0.5 eV. This result suggests that the magnetoelastic anisotropy originates mostly from the stress due to divacancies and/or dislocations."
"Measurements taken in the presence of an orienting field were made on four-pointed star-shaped films etched from planar uniaxial films. These yielded large biaxial anisotropy terms. In analyzing the effect, this film was presumed to consist of small partitions (typically 500). Within each partition the magnetization was assumed to be uniform and in the plane of the film, but its direction was allowed to vary from partition to partition. The non-uniform spatialMdistribution over the whole film was obtained by numerically iterating to the minimum energy condition. The high-energy state occurred when the averageMwas oriented from tip to tip in the star-shaped film, while the low-energy state corresponded to the averageMpointing diagonally (across the short dimension). The calculated biaxial anisotropy was then obtained under the assumption that all the energy difference between these two states can be attributed to the biaxial property of this film. The biaxial term is a result of the nonuniform distribution ofM, which is field dependent. The measured biaxial terms were obtained from torque measurements and were in good agreement with the calculated values."
"Structures made of infinitely long planar strips of magnetic film whose infinite dimensions are all parallel are considered, and the field needed to magnetize them to a given extent normal to that dimension is specified. An exact analytic solution is given for partially saturated coplanar films. Some useful analytic approximations and a computer program are described for solving more general structures, including results for a sandwich of a current-carrying conductor between two parallel film strips."
"Variation of Hkduring isothermal magnetic annealing has been systematically investigated to make clear the origin of the induced anisotropy in evaporated Permalloy films of the composition ranging from 70- to 90-percent Ni. The anisotropy of films deposited at room temperature comes from six different origins, whose activation energies areE_{1} < 0.2eV (0.17-0.2 eV),E_{2} \\simeq E_{3} \\simeq 0.5eV,E_{4} \\simeq E_{5} \\simeq 1.1eV, andE_{6} = 2.0eV, respectively. The compositional dependence of contributions from each origin can be used in order to elucidate the whole mechanism of the anisotropy in detail. The component of activation energy from 0.2 to 0.5 eV is closely related to the magnetoelastic anisotropy, while that of 1.1 eV is almost independent of the film composition. The component with the activation energy of 2.0 eV proved to be the same as that found in bulk Permalloy. Furthermore, the effects of the preparation condition of films on the anisotropy are also discussed."
"General design equations have been derived which relate magnetic film parameters to memory operating currents and bit geometry. The application of these equations is demonstrated in determining the magnetic specifications of a memory having 12 500 bit/in2. These characteristics were most easily realized in a composite magnetic film vacuum deposited sequentially from melts of 50-percent Co, 47-percent Ni, and 3-percent Fe and 83-percent Ni and 17-percent Fe. This is an excellent way of achieving characteristics which lie between those of any two layers taken separately as long as the total thickness is less than the exchange length, i.e., <2000Å. Before etching and final processing, yields to magnetic specifications of 80 percent were achieved using these composite films."
"The design and principles of operation of two-layer domain tip propagation logic (DTPL) set-reset and complementing flip-flops are described. These magnetic thin film devices demonstrate how the inherent delay in the propagation of channeled domain tips together with the basic DTPL logic elements (inhibit gates, fan-outs, crossovers, film-film transfers, and magnetic diodes) permit logic operations to be performed in a unique manner. Peculiar to the flip-flop devices is the fact that specific channels are continuously switched and reset by a fixed pulse sequence, although the overall network may be considered as existing in a given stable state. A ripple-carry binary counter constructed by interconnecting several similar complementing flip-flop (binary counter) stages and DTPL AND gates in a single two-layer structure is discussed."
"On the basis of the Matteucci effect, the principal magnetoelastic aspects found by the authors and others in bars and wires of ferromagnetic materials subject to torsion in the limits and beyond Hooke's law is discussed. In particular, the experimental relations between torsion angle (or stresses) and electric signals due to torsional magnetization are described. Some possible applications of the exposed results are suggested: 1) from the peak voltage of the Matteucci signal both internal stresses and their axial location may be deduced ; 2) the field of applied stresses being known, the magnetization state induced by the stresses may be obtained from graphic or electronic intergration of the electrical signal which, in turn, can yield some information on the magnetoelastic parameters of the sample."
"Reversible permeability increases associated with irreversible displacements of Bloch walls are here studied on iron flat rings exhibiting a strong magnetic aftereffect. Measurements are taken by means of an ac bridge while irreversible processes are produced by a constant field Horotating in the plane of the sample. The increases of both real μ' and imaginary part μ\" of complex permeability are observed, for different rotational frequencies of Ho, as a function of frequency and amplitude of the measuring field. The data obtained indicate that the complex permeability increases through reversible and irreversible contribution. The reversible contribution is caused by the occurrence of \"excited\" Bloch walls, the number of which is the greater the stronger the aftereffect of the sample. The irreversible contribution is due to the possibility that the measuring field will produce irreversible jumps of most \"excited\" walls."
"The debut has recently been witnessed of a very interesting magnetic recording surface composed of particulate dispersions of highly acicular chrome dioxide (CrO2). Magnetically, this medium exhibits much higher remanence and hysteretic squareness than the conventional γ-Fe2O3media and allows for a very wide variability of the coercivity. This paper presents the results of an experimental and theoretical study of the digital recording properties of CrO2media and a comparative assessment of their recording performance to that of γ-Fe2O3media. The results show a large superiority of CrO2in signal output, which makes it particularly attractive for out-of-contact applications such as disks, for thin coatings, and for very high density applications such as video recordings. It also exhibits somewhat superior resolution than γ-Fe2O3, but the advantage here is reduced by its higher remanence, which was found to have a small but significant adverse effect on resolution."
"A new technique for the direct measurement of the domain wall energy per unit area has been developed and applied in the orthoferrites. The simplest possible domain wall configuration (a set of planar, parallel, equally spaced domain walls) has been predicted and observed to be stable. In the new technique to measure the domain wall energy per unit area, these planar walls have been controllably stretched to increase the total wall area and the total wall energy within a sample. The increase of wall area has been observed by the Bitter and Faraday techniques. Calculation of the work exerted by the applied and demagnetizing fields in forcing this increase has yielded the new measure of the domain wall energy per unit area. The domain wall energy per unit area of"
"Domain observations using the Kerr effect have been made on 50-percent Ni-Fe grain oriented tapes of 50-μm (2-mil) and 100-μm (4-mil) thickness. The surface domain patterns differ depending on sample preparation, which is described in detail. When the tape samples were annealed and then electrochemically polished, complex patterns, suggestive of surface stresses, appeared. When the tape samples were annealed after electrochemical polishing, the patterns observed were in close agreement with previously postulated models for flux reversal in 50-percent Ni-Fe tapes. Correlations of surface domain structure with net magnetization were also made by inductive pickup, and data on the observed coercive forces are included."
"Evidence of high-speed propagation phenomena has been previously cited as a possible mechanism for slow to intermediate speed switching. Quasi-static Kerr magnetooptical observation of propagation phenomena for applied fields and total switching times well into the region of \"incoherent rotation\" has resulted in a more complete and quantitative description of these effects. The ability of the quasi-static procedure to predict the results of uninterrupted dynamic flux reversal is demonstrated. In particular, for applied easy-axis field Hswell above coercive field Hcbut below the anisotropy field Hk, a pair of \"zigzag walls\" composed of connected domain tips extended in the hard direction is observed to switch approximately 100 percent of the film by longitudinal motion. For threshold fields near the theoretical astroid value, well-defined propagation fronts have been observed and their velocities carefully measured. Finally, the resulting velocity-field data are used to predict with good accuracy the results of experiments on uninterrupted reversal under a ramp fieldH_{s} = stforsup to5 \\times 10^{6}Oe/s."
"The basic mechanism of Bloch wall motion associated with very-fast-rise-time hard-axis pulses appears to be the same for wall streaming or worm motion, creep, and a new uniform motion. Creep under these conditions as distinguished from creep excited by relatively low-frequency sinusoidal excitation must involve important gyromagnetic effects and exhibits the same threshold behavior as wall streaming and the new uniform motion. Creep may be associated with either an applied easy-axis bias or with an equivalent stray-field bias. The uniform motion is more easily produced in thicker films (1500 Å) with very small or no bias and consists of a \"parade\" of tip domains, first nucleated at the film edge and then moving in the hard-axis direction until annihilated at the edge. The threshold field for wall motion in all of these processes depends on the rate of change of the pulse field, increasing with increasing rise time. The threshold field decreases with easy-axis bias and is related to a characteristic coercive force. The movement per pulse increases with increasing magnitude of drive field to a maximum and then decreases. Several mechanisms are suggested for this behavior."
"The control of domain tip propagation in a narrow Permalloy thin film is presented. The control of domain tip motion consists of two parts. One is the control of the direction of tip propagation and the other is the uniform motion of a domain tip by successive pulse fields. To control the direction of tip propagation, the combination of two films with different coercive forces was used. If a magnetic field is applied to a narrow Permalloy film which has a hard film (large Hc) on one end, a domain tip propagates along the channel. The direction of tip propagation depends on the direction of magnetization of the hard film. To control the uniform domain growth by a pulse field, a transverse ac magnetic field combined with a pulse field along the channel was used. An easy axis pulse field is 2 Oe, 30 ms, and a hard axis field is 1 kHz sinusoidal. A traveling length of a domain tip is proportional to a number of pulses applied along the easy axis. The traveling length per pulse is 0.53 mm at the hard axis fieldH_{\\perp} = 0.97Oe. The mechanism of this domain motion will be considered as a kind of creep."
"Measurements of the frequency dependence of the dielectric conductivity, Hall mobility, and thermal EMF as a function of temperature on polycrystalline Ni0.6Fe0.4Fe2O4indicate that these data can be interpreted in terms of the band model. Previous analyses of the semiconductor properties of ferrites according to the hopping model assume that the number of carriersnis identical with the concentration of divalent iron ions. Hall measurements indicate that this is not the case here, and thatnis best described by the equationn^{2} = (N_{D}-n)N_{0}[\\frac{m*}{m}]^{3/2} g^{-1} \\exp (\\frac{-E_{D}}{kT}). Assigning a value of 2 tog , m*/mis 9.3, and EDis 0.034 eV."
"In an important class of flux pumps, the load current is switched back and forth between two parallel paths each cycle. It is shown that if this is done by driving a current-carrying path resistive, heat will be dissipated equal to the change in persistent current inductive energy before and after the switching process. This heat is independent of path resistance. The efficiency of pumps operated in this mode goes to zero as the pumped current approaches its maximum value. It is shown, however, that this energy dissipation can be eliminated by using electromagnetic induction to cancel the current in a branch that is to be driven resistive. In this mode of operation, the switching dissipation at low temperature can be made arbitrarily small. Comparison with published data confirms the analysis."
"Seven different sample types of compound conductors were tested under almost identical conditions for the heat transfer from the cable surfaces to the liquid helium. Three different types of stability were observed: smooth transition from the critical current Icto a stable flux flow characteristic; an unsteady transition from Icto a stable flux flow characteristic; and an unsteady transition from Icto the normal state. Uniform temperature distribution in the compound conductors was tentatively assumed. Furthermore, the heat flux per unit area varied as the 2.5 power of the temperature difference τ between the conductor and helium. This law proved to be valid except for low τ values for which another heat transfer law could be derived from our measurement. For the majority of experiments, the three stability cases could be satisfactorily predicted. Concerning the final transitions to the normal state of the superconductors (\"takeoff points\") we found that the transition from nucleate to film boiling is not always decisive."
"A plated wire memory having high bit density (word spacing of 1.0 mm) and operating at low drive current (I_{w} = 270mA,I_{D} = 30mA) is obtained by embedding the plane in the flexible ferrite keeper (\\mu \\simeq 6), a mixture of nickel-zinc ferrite powder and an organic binder. Back voltage (9 volts) of word lines, delay time (8 ns), and crosstalk of digit sense lines are measured on a stack having 512 word lines by 144 digit sense lines. Due to the low drive current and high packing density, these values are almost the same as those of the stack without the keeper. The present memory stack with the keeper seems to be suitable for operation by integrated peripheral circuits."
"The effects of physical surface defects on the sense output voltage of magnetic plated wires is investigated from an experimental and analytical point of view. The one-to-one correspondence between such defects and resulting dropouts is shown experimentally, and the mechanism of memory mode failure is shown to be due to an increased write threshold for a bit containing a defect. Various types of scratches and cavities are investigated for their effects on the storage properties of the bit, and it is shown that the significant factor involved is the length of circumferential, easy axis flux closure path interrupted by the defect. A model is derived which relates defect size to observed voltage decreases."
"A static system which provides smooth variation of reactive power, both inductive and capacitive, is developed. The chronological development of the circuit is outlined. The sequence of phenomena involved in the circuit is described. The system is analyzed and its basic properties are explored. The operation of the system as a variable inductor and capacitor is studied and results are presented. The behavior of the system is verified on an experimental model."
"For various applications ferrite materials are required with a high permeability and a small variation of the permeability in a temperature range from 0 to 60°C. From a discussion of the theoretical conditions necessary for the occurrence of a high permeability and a flat μ-T curve in MnZn ferrites, it is clear that these two requirements are controversial. However, by a proper choice of the composition and a correct application of the method of reoxidation during sintering, a good compromise can be obtained. In the laboratory a permeability variation Δμ of less than 5 percent has been realized for a permeability level of 7500 in the above temperature range."
"A novel method for dispersing iron inside a silicate matrix, more specifically molecular sieve 13X, has been developed. This has obvious advantages over iron dispersions on external surfaces, as in catalysts, thin films, etc. The transition from paramagnetism to superparamagnetism to antiferromagnetism has been studied in this zeolite system (molecular sieve 13X) into which Fe3+has been introduced. Both Fe(CO)5and FeCl3have been used to obtain Fe2O3under certain conditions as described. Magnetic susceptibility, Mössbauer spectroscopy, X-ray diffraction, and electron microscopy have been used to elucidate the resulting products."
"A high value of(BH)_{\\max}is not the most important material characteristic for all applications of permanent magnets, and, in discussing a number of ways in which magnets are used, an attempt is made to show what are desirable properties. Among uses of permanent magnets that are particularly mentioned are the production of fields greater than 20 000 gauss; a novel magnetic bearing for a spindle rotating at 700 000 r/min; lifting and holding devices, including large ones with improved switching mechanisms; and a proposal for vehicles supported by magnetic repulsion in place of wheels. An attempt is made to apply modern methods of forecasting future trends and choosing profitable lines of research on permanent magnets. It is concluded that permanent magnet properties can reasonably be expected to continue to increase, perhaps even at an increased rate, but it may be equally important to reduce costs by improved design and methods of manufacture."
"A method is described for evaluation of aging in electrodeposited Permalloy memory wire. The method is based on observation of electrical output degradation measured under conditions of nondestructive read-out (NDRO) following magnetic annealing treatment. The time required for a specified fractional decay of output is averaged for several wires and for both switching polarities. Data are presented showing that the time required for 25-percent output degradation t25obeys a temperature dependence indicative of a thermally activated process. The time constant and activation energy may be used to characterize the aging property for a particular condition of temperature and applied magnetic field. In well-stabilized wire the activation energy is about 1.7 eV, comparable to that observed in bulk diffusion processes. Auxiliary experiments showed that the typical mode of aging failure is insufficient write, which is accompanied by broadening of the switching threshold, and, more fundamentally, by a large increase in easy-axis dispersion."
"The properties of Alnicos and elongated single-domain fine-particle materials, both interpreted as due to shape anisotropy of fine particles, are still far short of those predicted by simple theory. The hard ferrites, with properties due to magnetocrystalline anisotropy, come much closer, but are restricted by their low magnetization. The search for a combination of high magnetization and high magnetocrystalline anisotropy has led to the investigation of a variety of intermetallic compounds. Some of them, particularly the cobalt-rare earths, appear quite promising. Mechanical grinding often has an adverse effect on the magnetic properties of crystal anisotropy materials. Chemical stability is also often a problem. Crystal anisotropy materials in general have high values of intrinsic coercive force. This makes them especially suitable for applications involving widely varying dynamic conditions. Their proper evaluation may be best done using criteria other than the usual maximum energy product."
"The magnetization reversal of loose low-coercivity fine powders of magnetite or iron is independent of the value of the particle packing fraction. However, when these powders are compacted under pressure in a solid matrix of Perspex, the coercivity of the samples increases logarithmically with the increasing powder density. We assume that in these powders small superparamagnetic particles are agglomerated into clusters. Supposing the magnetization process to be due to a nucleation mechanism, the critical field at which this nucleation starts appears to be a function of the number of particles agglomerated in a cluster. This number varies with the density of the powder compacted in the matrix. By the suggested theoretical model, we have estimated the diameter of the superparamagnetic particles of the experimentally investigated fine iron powder to be approximately 46 Å. Valuable information about the magnetic structure of these powders has been obtained from the studies of the hyperfine splitting in their Mössbauer patterns and from those of the changes in the line intensities caused by the application of an external magnetic field."
"Indirect measurements have been made of the switching time during the write process of selected plated wire memory elements with different substrate topographies. Results are presented for nonmagnetostrictive Ni-Fe films of thickness 4000 ± 150 Å and anisotropy fieldH_{k} = 2.8 \\pm 0.2Oe in a fixed switching field geometry. Switching time is found to increase as the substrate topography becomes rougher. This is accounted for by the influence of substrate topography on easy axis dispersion and domain wall motion threshold."
"Heating and subsequent quenching of single crystals of Ni1+xGexFe2-2xO4causes Ni2+ions to migrate and occupyAsites. Since in these sites their orbital state is triply degenerate, they furnish a+K_{1}/Mand-K_{2}/M. On the other hand, they do not participate in cubic anisotropy while in theBsites. Thus the measurement of anisotropy by ferrimagnetic resonance techniques enables one to study with some precision the cationic migration. For quenched samples the anisotropyK_{1}/Mdecreases in its absolute value and changes its sign at lower temperatures. This change\\DeltaK{1}/Mobserved in the anisotropy due to quenching is seen to decrease with increase in Ge4+ion content. The relation between\\DeltaK_{1}/M, the Ge4+ion content, and the quench temperature Tqhas been studied and interpreted. The results reveal the various factors which govern the migration of Ni2+ions and yield also the activation energies involved for the various cases. The migration of Ni2+ions is seen to be more complicated than that of Al3+or Ga3+in garnets. Finally, decreasing the anisotropy field in such ferrites by quenching serves as a very simple method of decreasing polycrystalline linewidth, particularly at low temperatures."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"Anisotropy energy terms may be obtained by measuring and analyzing the rotating sample magnetometer output as a function of field over a range of harmonic frequencies. General expressions for outputs are calculated in terms of the frequency of rotation and detection, field, magnetization, and anisotropy. Applications to a specific measurement, that of detecting anisotropy constants in uniaxial films, are shown experimentally. For cases in which anisotropic specimens are also single domain, related techniques are presented and also illustrated experimentally with films."
"New technologies for producing ferrite memory cores include the incorporation of ferrite powder into sheets with a high binder content; fast multiple tooling presses stamping memory cores out of sheets; cheap high-capacity automated and highly controllable furnaces; and time-saving powder-processing equipment. The combination of processes and equipment meets the needs for increasingly larger numbers of cores, cheaper costs, smaller cores, and higher yields."
"An essential requirement for complete stabilization of a superconducting magnet is adequate circulation of liquid helium in the winding, resulting in a low average current density, in partially stabilized magnets, the size of the cooling channels is reduced, but access for liquid helium is still considered necessary. With enthalpy stabilization, however, the need for helium penetration into the winding is eliminated, resulting in better packing of the conductors and a higher average current density. A small enthalpy stabilized magnet has been tested that was fully impregnated with epoxy resin and operated at a current density above 104A/cm2. The basis of the design of such magnets is discussed, with particular reference to the choice of conductor size and its effect on average current density in the magnet. Possible applications of this technique are also discussed."
"The magnetron, invented in 1939, created the need for a microwave tube magnet which evolved from the early horn magnet to the U magnet, the E magnet, and finally the bowl magnet. A more recent innovation, the self-shielded cylindrical magnet, is now used on many crossed-field amplifiers. The klystron and the traveling wave tube created the need for permanent magnets with gaps longer than their diameters. The field straightener and the periodic permanent magnet facilitated the use of permanent magnets in focusing these linear beam tubes. The operation of magnetrons, crossed field amplifiers, klystrons, traveling wave tubes, and microwave ferrite devices, and the permanent magnets which are used in conjunction with these devices are described. Magnetic circuit design criteria, design methods, and the magnetization and stabilization of permanent magnets are discussed. The requirements of microwave devices have provided much of the incentive for the great advances in permanent magnet materials made in the last decade. The recent development of rare-earth-cobalt powders which exhibit the highest magnetocrystalline anisotropy ever recorded are of great interest to the microwave device designer."
"A new type of ferrite called hot pressed ferrite (HPF) which is processed at a very high temperature and pressure during sintering, and which has almost the same density and lack of porosity as single crystal ferrite is described. Furthermore, HPF has many advantages over single-crystal ferrites, including the fact that it is isotropic. The permeability, expansion coefficients, and wearing characteristics of an HPF ingot are identical in all directions, which facilitates head design and manufacture. The magnetic, physical, and ether properties of HPF are described in detail and these properties are compared with those of conventional, high-density, and single-crystal ferrites. The way HPF can be used to design heads giving improved signal-to-noise ratio, higher resolution, and exceptionally long life is also described. The experimental results relate mainly to heads for audio, video, and instrumentation recording."
"The digital recording performance of a wide variety of particulate media is related to their magnetic properties. The results are compared with the somewhat divergent relationships proposed empirically and theoretically for thin metal films. It is shown that neither the empirical nor the theoretical laws consistently explain the behavior of particular media over the range of materials and compositions explored. The main points are the following. 1) For relatively low values of magnetization and relatively large thicknesses, the relationships tend to be linear more in agreement with theory. Also, the resolution is dependent upon the remanent intensity of magnetization, again in agreement with theory. 2) For relatively thin tapes having a high magnetization, the observed relationships are approximately in agreement with those found empirically for thin films."
"The transfer of information from a magnetic surface master to a magnetic surface slave when they are brought in to intimate contact in the presence of an external magnetic field is discussed. The only effective component of the transfer field was found to be the component in the plane of transfer and collinear with the recorded magnetization. Steady fields were found to be only slightly inferior in transfer efficiency to alternating fields, and the optimum amplitude for both is equal to the remanence coercivity of the slave medium. The basic mechanism of the magnetic transfer process is shown to be the establishment of a relatively large susceptibility in the slave by the transfer field, thus rendering it a good receptor of the flux emanating from the magnetization gradients in the master. Under certain conditions it was found that digital information could be transferred from a high resolution master onto thick or low coercivity media with a significant improvement in resolution over what could be achieved by direct recording with conventional transducers on the same media."
"Powders of a misch metal-cobalt alloy of type (MM)Co5were prepared and consolidated in various ways to study the effects of particle size, plastic deformation during milling, and pressure applied during compacting on the permanent magnet properties. Vibration grinding yields particles with high coercive force (MH_{c} = 4180Oe) but which align very poorly in a field. Mortar-ground powders have high magnetic anisotropy combined with much lower, but strongly particle-size dependent Hc. Ballmilling, a method suitable for production in quantity, constitutes a satisfactory compromise. Pressing ballmilled powder in a field with 3400 kg/cm2pressure and no binder gave optimum results. A magnet havingMH_{c} = 2010Oe,BH_{c} = 1620Oe,B_{r} = 4060G, and(BH)_{\\max} = 2.34MG.Oe was obtained. Details of the static and recoil behavior for this magnet are reported."
"This paper describes the results of an experimental study on the correlation between properties of the recording medium and the performance of the read-back signal. In contrast with previous works, wherein very thin metallic surfaces were often used as the experimental media, relatively thick media ranging from 2 to 16 μ were chosen to reduce the influences of spacing loss and head-gap loss. It is shown that the pulse width of a read-back signal is dominated by the thickness of the medium, while its amplitude depends primarily on medium retentivity. It is also shown that the pulse amplitude to remanent ratio should be inversely proportional to the pulse width for an in-contact ideal head. Some comparisons with the previous results were also made."
"The temperature dependence of the specific saturation magnetization of barium and strontium ferrite powders after milling in an attrition mill has been investigated at temperatures between -195°C and the Curie temperature of the ferrites. The experimental results show that the specific saturation magnetization decreases with increasing milling time and that a second, presumably soft-magnetic phase occurs during milling which vanishes during annealing of the powders. The influence of lattice defects introduced by the milling process is discussed."
"A numerical method is presented to extend the coherent rotation model to the study of the dynamic switching behavior of continuous magnetic films for a nonuniformly distributed applied field. This field seriously affects the switching behavior of the film. Infinite planar films and cylindrical films with an applied magnetic field produced by a hairpin word strap are used as examples. The induced voltage from magnetic films is found to be very sensitive to the wave shape of the applied magnetic field as well as to the rise time and amplitude of the field. The calculations also include the bandwidth-limited sense system, which attenuates and distorts the induced voltage. A comparison with an experimental voltage from a cylindrical film was made. Also, the magnetostatic field distributions along the hard direction are determined for the static condition when torques on the magnetization approach zero."
"A formula is given to describe the variation of intrinsic coercive force with packing in elongated single domain (ESD) iron particle assemblies. A similar formula, which describes this variation in barium ferrite particle assemblies, is formally identical to the other one by simply changingp(packing) into1 - p(porosity). Magnetic interactions are considered, and an overall interaction field is defined that may account for intrinsic coercive force variations in the case of ESD iron particles. Experimental results on barium ferrite particle assemblies are presented that suggest the existence of a critical packing factor (p \\sim 0.15) separating two different, but not specified, modes of interaction."
"Permalloy clad drawn wire, a new memory element for large-scale semipermanent memory, has been fabricated, and its pulse response measured. This wire is fabricated by a process in which a silver-copper alloy rod is put in a Permalloy tube, which is then drawn through dies. The Permalloy clad drawn wire described in this paper has a diameter of 0.1 mm and a Permalloy outer layer 3.5 microns thick. In the final annealing, which is the last step in fabrication of the wire, magnetic anisotropy caused by drawing in the longitudinal direction of the wire is erased. At the same time, a new anisotropy having its easy axis circumferential to the wire appears, if the Permalloy composition is chosen so that its magnetostriction is slightly negative. Permalloy clad drawn wire can be used in almost the same way as the magnet card twistor memory, except that the wire requires a small bias current. This bias current determines the direction of magnetization when the drive pulse is removed. For the wire described, a bias current of less than 30 mA is sufficient."
"An experimental method is described which may be used to determine the shape of the coupling energy curve between the layers in double films. The coupling energy, assumed here to be isotropic, is an additional energy term in the total energy expression. A simple formula is derived for the derivative of the coupling energy with respect to the angle a between the magnetizations in both layers. Experimental data for measurements of the reversible susceptibility permit the determination of the angle α from another equation. It is found that the shape of the coupling energy curve differs from-const \\times \\cos \\alpha, and it seems that the formula for this energy is more complicated and probably includes the exchange energy as well."
"H_{k} , \\deltaH_{k} ,\\alpha_{90}and Hchave been measured for vapor-deposited nonmagnetostrictive Co-Ni-Fe films, 1500 Å thick. All parameters except Hchave been measured using the transverse-biased permeability apparatus. Hkincreases linearly with cobalt melt content up to 15-percent cobalt,\\deltaH_{k}and Hcincrease with increasing cobalt and substrate temperature. α90decreases in the region 0-15-percent cobalt and then increases with increased cobalt melt content and substrate temperature. The coefficient of magnetoelastic composition sensitivitySis the slope of the curve η versus the ratio of nickel to iron in the melt for a constant cobalt percentage about the point\\eta = 0. The value ofSincreases rapidly with substrate temperature to a maximum near 300°C if the cobalt percentage is small. For larger amounts of cobaltSis reduced and is more independent of temperature. It is proposed that the volume fraction and the mobility of the grain boundaries in the film structure are primarily responsible forS."
"A three-layer device is proposed which uses temperature-dependent exchange coupling between two magnetic layers. One layer is composed of a magnetically \"hard\" material, the other is uniaxial Permalloy. The coupling layer is an alloy that has a Curie temperature near room temperature. A brief pulse of heat applied by means of an optical or electron beam can raise the temperature of the device above its lowest Curie temperature, and the film will change its magnetic state under the influence of an external bias field. An energy calculation for the single-domain case leads to a family of critical curves with exchange coupling as a parameter. An alloy of Ni-Fe-Cr is proposed for use in the coupling layer. Measurements of saturation magnetization versus temperature are reported for sputtered films of the alloy. Although the desired properties are observed for some samples, the alloy appears to be metallurgically unstable."
"Magnetometric measurements indicate that when the magnetization of cobalt films is reversed by the application of fields at angles greater than grazing incidence, switching occurs when the field component Hsin the film plane is less than the coercivity HcCurves of Hsversus the vertical field component Hyare shown for cobalt tapes and Co-P films. This effect has been shown to influence the writing process and could be used to facilitate the switching of the high coercivity films necessary for high packing density systems."
"The demagnetization effect in magnetic recording must be evaluated, not as static self-demagnetization, but as a dynamic demagnetizing field at an instant when the head field is applied to the medium. From this fact it becomes necessary to obtain a self-consistent magnetization distribution in the medium. A method of calculation and its results are described. The relation between the longitudinal and the vector magnetization is clarified. The experimental results of the recording demagnetization in sinusoidal recording and the pulse width and the peak shift in digital recording are interpreted as the new phenomena that is related to the dynamical behavior of the demagnetizing field in the recording process."
"A multiaperture ferrite structure, developed by New-hall and others for use in shift registers, forms a basis for performing logical operations through the use of multiple input windings. The binary signals are bipolar (pulses of similar shape but opposite polarity) rather than unipolar, and logical functions may be realized using only connecting wire and a sufficient number of properly clocked apertures. Linearly separable Boolean functions of two variables are realizable on a single aperture, and a single aperture may also be operated as a threshold logical element. Experimental results indicating the feasibility of such operation are also reported."
"The planar film memory is presented as the most desirable type of memory on the basis of performance, having greater speed and reliability and lower power consumption. The various factors that have caused these memories to be economically unfeasible are explored with the conclusions that this is no longer the case. Dramatic new breakthroughs in element design and packaging are presented as further causes for a new low-cost potential. It is concluded that planar film memories will start immediately to displace ferrite cores on both a cost and performance basis."
"The paper considers in detail a transistorized synthesizer or harmonic generator. It is driven by a highly stable 400-Hz reed oscillator, binary divided, which controls the master square-wave generator at 50 Hz. Each harmonic channel consists of two selective amplifier modules separated by a limiter and has amplitude and phase control. A complex wave is formed of harmonics up to and including the forty-ninth. This is fed to a 1-kVA power amplifier via an adding stage. Connected to the output of the amplifier is an excitation coil containing the single Epstein sample under test. On the sample is wound aB-search coil whose waveform is made sinusoidal. The Hall plate is positioned in the center of the excitation coil perpendicular to the air flux. TheBcoil is connected to the Hall plate buffered by an amplifier. The current through the Hall plate is proportional to the induced voltage, Hence the output from the Hall plate is a measure of the iron losses of the sample. Losses have been measured up to 24 kG for sinusoidal flux density and at several frequencies using the harmonics as fundamentals."
"The aging characteristics of zero magnetostrictive thin-film Permalloy samples with a variety of impurities have been examined in the range from 60 to 90°C. Vacuum evaporated samples from three different sources, some with cobalt, and five different kinds of electrodeposited samples, some containing large amounts of phosphorus or sulfur, have been used. The changes in anisotropy field Hkand dispersion αqon aging in a saturating hard axis field were dependent on the method of preparation of the films and their impurity content. However, the aging characteristics became independent of the source of the film and independent of the impurity present after a suitable stabilization anneal. No changes in Msor magnetostriction were observable during aging. The aging behavior of all of these films is qualitatively consistent with the model previously proposed for the effect of sulfur on the aging kinetics."
"The signal applied to the head in the writing process undergoes changes and distortions of various sources. Equalization must be applied to the read signal to help restore the input waveshape. The object is to improve timing accuracy which ultimately allows the use of increased bit density. An equalization method is presented in which amplitude and phase are controlled separately. The phase equalizer is adjustable, compensating for waveshape asymmetry. The networks are extremely simple and not sensitive to component tolerances. In continuous waveshape codes, such as phase recording or double frequency recording, the system is capable of compensating for considerable variations in the spacial parameters of recording. The equalization can also be used in nonreturn to zero (NRZ) code, where the ability to restore symmetry can be used to great advantage in eliminating errors."
"Experimental data are presented for superconductive tunneling devices (STD) of varied geometrical design. The devices exhibited stable characteristics since they were formed by plasma-induced oxidation of Pb films in conjunction with existent array fabrication technology previously developed for cryotrons. The dependence of the tunneling supercurrent has been measured as a function of barrier perimeter and applied magnetic field. This field is generated by in-line and crossed-film control layers matched to the geometrical dimensions of the barriers. Control of device geometry is shown to yield the unbiased current gain desired for logic and memory applications. The results reported form an empirical basis for arrayed-device design. A cautiously optimistic review of the state-of-the-art in STD technology is included."
"A circuit analysis of diode access matrices is presented. The problem is reduced to manageable proportions through a series of equivalent circuits, without neglecting any essential features. The voltage waveforms on selected and unselected word and diode rails are derived. For low access noise, it is of paramount importance to have the access matrix power supply ideally floating with respect to its surroundings. If that is the case, the access noise due to the voltage bounces on half-selected and unselected word lines cancel out one another, and the total access noise is, to a first approximation, zero. The residual access noise observed in practical memories must, therefore, be the result of second-order effects attributable to time delays along the bit lines, stray impedances, etc. Experimental measurements on a simulated 22 by 22 access matrix and a 512- word by 96-bit plated wire memory plane gave results in good agreement with those calculated. This analysis provides an appreciation of the effect of each individual design parameter on the overall performance of diode access matrices."
"The operation of coincident-current ferrite-core stores is limited by delta noise caused by uncanceled half-select outputs. However, not all half-select signals contribute to delta noise at strobe time. The contribution of the half-select signal depends on its magnitude and relaxation time. An investigation of the half-select output signals, which includes the dependence of the half-select signals on the operation loop, disturb pattern, and primary magnetization state, is presented. The half-select responses are classified as reversible and irreversible, and the delta noise is found to be a function of the irreversible responses only."
"Magnetic film and ferrite core memories will profitably coexist for at least the next three to five years. Relative to other magnetic memory elements, plated wire advantages include higher speed, lower switching energy, lower cost, and NDRO (nondestructive read-out). Magnetic annealing in a 30-Oe easy axis field at a temperature above 300°C for times of approximately 1 minute has solved the aging problem. A practical range of allowable magnetostriction coefficient values is maintained by holding a ±0.25 percentage point variation in nickel content. Plating a ternary alloy reduces by 2 to 1 the sensitivity of the process to electrolyte temperature. Use of a two-step (phase-modulated) writing process raises the threshold to creep approximately 20 percent and nearly doubles the easy axis wall motion threshold. Future plated wire memory systems are expected to have the following characteristics : 80- to 150-ns cycle time for 1 to 3 × 105bits; 250- to 500-ns cycle time for 0.4 to 2 × 106bits, and 500- to 1000-ns cycle time for 0.5 to 1 × 107bits. The drive circuits will all be integrated and required to deliver only 200 to 400 milliampere-turns (mAt) of hard axis drive. A limited survey indicates the possibility of 3 × 109bits of plated wire memory being produced in the United States in 1972."
"The iron curtain is a new type of batch-fabricated storage array. The wiring of this array is made from insulated copper wires, covered with a thermobonding lacquer: These wires are glued together by heating, resulting in a wire screen made of one piece. Next the wiring is soldered in a frame and covered with a ferromagnetic metallic layer. Depending on the type of wiring, one obtains an iron curtain with core-type elements (CIC) or one with biax-type elements (BIC). The CIC can be operated in 2 or 21/2 D. The BIC is a word-organized element array and is operated in the flux-tipping mode. Typical outputs are between 5 and 10 mV."
"Thin wafers of GdIG, made by sectioning and polishing single- and polycrystals, were studied magnetooptically to determine the parameters useful for the memory element first proposed by Chang et al. It was found that coercivity determined by means of Faraday rotation in these wafers was tenfold higher than that in bulk materials determined by conventional means. Thermal and coercivity considerations showed that a steep and wide peak in the coercivity versus temperature curve was desirable for small bit size and high writing speed. This was confirmed experimentally, and bit density of 106/in2was obtained by laser beam writing on polycrystalline wafer. Bits were stable with temperature up to 50°C. They can be erased selectively by the same writing beam with reversed magnetic bias. Practical writing and reading techniques are proposed."
"Measurements of the switching speed in thin single-crystal wafers of gadolinium iron garnet are described. Pulsed magnetic fields down to 10-ns duration are applied, and the resulting change in the magnetic state is detected optically by the Faraday effect. Data are taken as a function of temperature near the compensation point. The results show interesting temperature and dynamic effects in the switching threshold and switching speed. Many of the observed effects can be accounted for by appropriate models. Most interesting and unexpected is that the wall damping coefficient appears to be an order of magnitude lower than in YIG. The cause for this is not understood. One practical consequence is that the switching power is very low. This may be advantageous in some device applications, even though the coercivity near the compensation temperature becomes very high."
"In magnetic-film memories which have the bit current returning through a ground plate, the write noise, i.e., the sense-line voltage caused by the bit-current pulse, contains a slowly decaying component. Theoretical and experimental results show that the time derivative of this component, which should be as small as possible for best rejection by the sense system, can be reduced by 1) appropriately stratifying the ground plate, 2) keeping the ground plate at a low temperature, or 3) terminating the bit-sense line with a suitable RC network. The experiments were carried out using a scale model of the bit-sense line, with the physical dimensions, the time scale, and the resistivity of the conductors all being increased by the same factor. Electrical properties of such a scale model are identical to those of the simulated system."
"The effective susceptibility tensor for polycrystalline uniaxial antiferromagnetic materials has the Polder form, suggesting the possibility of using these materials for nonreciprocal devices at millimeter and submillimeter wavelengths. Figures of merit for these devices have been calculated from perturbation theory, assuming RF fields uniform throughout the material. A geometrical figure of merit is presented which takes into account the nonuni-fortuity of the RF field within the material, assumed to be an ideal nonreciprocal absorber. Geometrical figures of merit, along with those obtained from perturbation theory, indicate that, with regard to nonreciprocity, polycrystalline antiferromagnetic devices at millimeter and submillimeter wavelengths should perform as well as typical ferrite devices at microwave frequencies. Experimental observations at 2-mm wavelengths in powdered MnTiO3resulted in reverse to forward loss ratios greater than 10 to 1. The reverse attenuation was not sufficient for practical device application, but procedures to increase this are suggested."
"The performance of a scientific magnetics experiment in space involves the selection, development, and calibration of an instrument capable of satisfying the requirements of the scientific objectives. Since stray magnetic fields produced by the spacecraft can be a source of measurement error, the design and magnetic testing of all the flight hardware are also factors in meeting scientific objectives. These considerations are discussed as embodied in the Mariner V effort. The relatively new and successful vector helium magnetometer used for Mariner IV (Mars 1964) and Mariner V (Venus 1967) will be described in the discussion. Also presented are the efforts to reduce the Mariner Spacecraft stray fields and the results of those efforts. Finally, a brief description of the special facilities used for testing and evaluation and a summary of the final experiment results will be given."
"A new fluxgate magnetometer sensor, highly stable with time and temperature, was developed for space magnetic exploration. The sensor, of ring-core construction, uses 6-81 Mo-Permalloy tape. When coupled with the NASA Ames Research Center driving and detection electronics, the resulting magnetometer has a zero offset level which is adjustable to less than 0.1 γ fluctuates less than\\pm 0.1\\gammain 24 hours at constant temperature, and shifts less than 0.4 γ when the temperature of the sensor is shifted from -30 to + 60°C. Room temperature noise is less than 0.2 γ peak to peak in the frequency band of 0-10 Hz. This performance, which was confirmed by Ames in its fluxtank, was measured at the Naval Ordnance Laboratory in its superconducting shield, in which static magnetic fields are less than 0.1γ, static gradients are less than 0.1 γ/in, and the attenuation to time-varying fields is 106."
"The longitudinal Kerr effect in thin iron films prepared by electron-beam evaporation on glass substrates has been studied as a function of film thickness (20-1340 Å), angle of incidence (30-75 degrees), incident index of refraction (1-1.65), and wavelength (0.4-0.8 μ) withpandsincident polarizations. In addition, the Kerr figures of merit were determined from the measured values of the double Kerr rotations and optical reflectivities. The film thickness was measured by interferometry and X-ray fluorescence techniques. As the film thickness decreased, the magnitude of the Kerr rotations withpandspolarizations decreased from about 8 minutes to zero for an incident indexn_{1} = 1, an exit indexn_{3} = 1.52, and a 45- degree angle of incidence. However, the rotations of the same films increased from about 16 minutes to a maximum of 30 minutes near 200 Å forn_{1} = 1.52 , n_{3} = 1, and a 45-degree angle of incidence at the film surface. The corresponding Kerr figures of merit forn_{1} = 1.52exhibited peaks about a decade larger than the values determined forn_{1} = 1. Clearly, a simple increase of the incident index of refraction provides a significant enhancement of a magnetooptical signal. Analysis of the phenomenological magnetooptical equations for a two-surface thin-film structure gives satisfactory agreement with our results."
"A large number of magnetostatic mode resonances have been observed in axially magnetized cylindrical rods at 9.96 GHz. The data can be satisfactorily explained on the basis of magnetostatic mode theory of volume and surface modes for rods in air and surface modes for rods encased in metal sleeves. The resonances were observed by inserting 0.075-inch diameter polycrystalline YIG rods through holes in a shorted TE10rectangular waveguide section one half wavelength from the short so that the portion of the rod inside the waveguide was in a region of uniform microwave field, and measuring reflected microwave power as a function of static magnetic field strength with the field applied parallel to the rod axis. With the rod supported by 1-inch long metal sleeves on both sides of the waveguide, the spectrum consists of a series of weak resonances from 1800 to 2600 Oe, a main peak at 2725 Oe, and a series of resonances, decreasing in intensity with increasing field, above the main peak. By removing the sleeves and supporting the rod with dielectric inserts in the waveguide wall, the weak resonances were eliminated from the spectra. The positions of the observed peaks were found to agree with predictions from magnetostatic mode theory. The resonances on the low field side of the main peak correspond to surface modes excited in the sleeve-enclosed portions of the rod with an integral number of half wavelengths along the sleeve length. The main resonance corresponds to the excitation of a surface mode excited in the portion of the rod which is in the waveguide. The resonances on the high field side of the main peak correspond to volume modes excited in the portion of the rod which is in the waveguide."
"The properties of nonreciprocal ferrite devices depend strongly on the ferrite properties. The dependence of several device specifications, such as insertion loss, power capability, etc., on, for instance, linewidth, dielectric loss tangent, critical field, etc., is similar for the three different groups of nonreciprocal devices. The dependence of bandwidth and insertion loss on ferrite magnetization and polarization field is specific for a special group. To investigate the latter dependence for junction circulators, a general model for that group of devices is introduced and discussed. Junction circulators consist of a number of identical resonators. These resonators, mutually coupled by means of the ferrite, are connected to the ports. The lumped element circulator is discussed qualitatively and the stripline circulator quantitatively. For the latter, ranges of magnetization and bias field are determined for operation both above and below resonance. Obtainable bandwidths are estimated."
"This paper describes measurements of the transverse Kerr effect in Ni-Fe films. These measurements were made in the study of the magnetooptic effects over the wavelength range 0.3 to 3 μ. The quantity measured was the relative reflectivity which is the ratio of a change in reflectance due to the variation of the transverse magnetization divided by the Fresnel reflectivity. Data are presented which show the variation of this quantity as a function of the composition of iron-nickel alloys and for given alloys as a function of wavelength. These data show that in the 0.3- to 3-μ wavelength range relative reflectivities between\\pm 3.5 \\times 10^{-3}have been obtained."
"The Kerr magnetooptic effects in thin films of EuO were enhanced by closely matching the antireflection condition. This condition was met by controlling the thickness of semitransparent EuO films deposited on a mirror substrate. In the visible spectrum the longitudinal Kerr rotation 2φ is increased to about 8 degrees as compared with 2 degrees in single-crystal EuO. The transverse Kerr effect 2δ is also increased to about 0.8, the largest value yet reported. Corresponding to these maxima there is a minimum in reflectance that approaches the true antireflection condition. Details of the experiment and the semiautomated transverse Kerr effect plotter are presented with comparison of data from other magnetic films and enhancement techniques."
"Experimental studies of laser Curie-point writing, erasure, and magnetooptical read-out on thin films of MnBi have been performed. These films have a thickness of around 800 Å, an optical density of 1.6, and a Faraday rotation of 5 degrees (0 to full saturation) at a 6328-Å wavelength. Their easy direction of magnetization is normal to the film plane; coercive force Hcis between 800 and 1100 Oe; and Curie temperature Tcis 360°C. These properties make them well suited for optical mass memory applications. This has been demonstrated with a scanning optical system designed to simulate the functions of a computer memory. A 50-mW He-Ne laser beam is modulated with a Kerr cell, deflected with a galvanometer, and focused onto the film with a microscope objective. Memory bits of 1-μm diameter were written, read, and erased through 105cycles with no degradation of its memory characteristics. The experiments were carried out at room temperature in air."
"An approximate method is presented for the solution of magnetic field distribution in plated wires. By treating only the essential parameters of the distribution and ignoring its fine details, a simple and general solution is obtained, portraying the relation between the distribution shape, the geometry of the drive lines, and the magnetic characteristics of the wire. The results indicate the existence of a characteristic length λ over which the applied field tends to be averaged and which represents the lowest practical limit of bit size. Several examples, involving adjacent bit interaction, drive current requirement, sense signal amplitude, and tolerance analysis, demonstrate the efficiency and flexibility of the described method as a practical tool for the magnetic design of plated wire memories."
"The 1968 INTERMAG Conference was held in the Sheraton-Park Hotel, Washington DC, on April 3, 4, and 5, 1968. The event officially recorded 939 registrants, almost 200 higher than the record established in 1967. This year 25 invited and 120 contributed papers covering a wide range of applied magnetics and superconductivity were presented by authors from 13 dflerent countries."
"Static magnetic frequency multipliers are often unstable because of various resonance conditions that can arise when capacitors are associated with nonlinear magnetic devices. Such resonance conditions can occur at many different harmonic or other frequencies and are influenced by many factors. This paper presents a classification of various oscillations and outlines methods of analyses that can yield acceptable results in the determination of their location, amplitude, and stability."
"The paper deals with the control of substrate topography to achieve the magnetic properties necessary for electroplated wire memory elements. A number of surface preparation techniques have been studied using control of the plating variables of deposited copper films. Scanning electron microscopy has made possible quantitative measurements of some of the surface topographies. It is shown that the domain wall coercive force of Permalloy films is related to the film thickness by an inverse 4/3 power law providing the films were above 2000 Å in thickness. Measurements made of the coercive force for constant thickness Permalloy films as a function of surface roughness showed that it is related to the frequency and amplitude of nodular growths and that there is a maximum at a particular nodular frequency. Using the data obtained, a choice of substrate and film thickness can be made to match the requirements of a particular memory element."
"A test technique for plated wire memories, which uses two layers of word straps in the read-write operations, is described. Thus a rather wide bit may be established using two 10-mil word straps spaced 5 mils apart. This can then be read using the smaller 5-mil interrogate straps with a 5-mil spacing giving the magnetization distribution at 10-mil increments along the plated wire. Theoretical relationships are developed between the voltages sensed on the digit line upon applying word currents through either of the word straps. Such a configuration is used to estimate the width of material switched by each strap while in a memory mode of operation. Families of curves are given showing how different digit currents, write-word currents, read-word currents, and a number of disturb repeats affect the domain magnetization and readout voltage."
"Slow switching in the threshold region of Mg0.5Mn0.4Zn0.5Fe1. 6O4toroids has been studied to elucidate physical processes with inherently different time constants, confluent in faster switching. Threshold switching from the reset state occurs by a large Barkhausen jump which is considerably delayed from the start of the step field. The delay varies randomly above a minimum value, sometimes exceeding 100 ms. The statistical distribution of this delay has been measured as a function of field and temperature. Interrupted pulse experiments demonstrate that both the delay mechanism and the Barkhausen switching are essentially viscous with a setup time of several μs. The phenomenon is understood in terms of very slow growth of reverse domains by thermal activation, culminating in \"avalanche\" switchiag of interacting domains."
"The recently developed \"current stretch\" technique, a low temperature integration and amplification of sense signals, offers new freedom in the design of cryogenic memory cells. This scheme makes the sense voltage independent of cell switching speed and gives a good signal-to-noise ratio. A memory system using a double hole tin film storage cell driven by cryotron trees is described. Current stretch sensing is done through the trees so that no sense line is required. The cell operating range, which can be made arbitrarily large, has been set at 40 percent in the present study. Cells have been tested at densities of 103bit/in2and switching speeds of 100 ns. Densities of 104bit/in2appear feasible with existing fabrication techniques. In sizes of 108cells or above, this memory system appears cheaper than any known room temperature technique of equal speed."
"The experimental results are reported for a series of measurements made on a single-crystal gadolinium garnet, with a view to obtaining the characteristics which appeared necessary for the use of garnets as memory elements. In particular, variations in the hysteresis loop as a function of the temperature are discussed in order to obtain the dependence of the rectangularity on the temperature. The rectangularity has been found approximately equal to 1 from 5 to 20°C. The variations in switching time as a function of the amplitude and the rise time of the magnetic excitation field and as a function of the temperature have also been studied. Switching times of 1 μs can easily be obtained. Evidence is also shown of a dependence of the coercive field upon the rise time of the driving signal."
"The guided-flux technique as described for the first time in 1963 [1] is generally considered as one of the most interesting all-magnetic techniques, mainly because it has no theoretical speed limitation. At the present time, no theoretical analysis of systems using this technique is available. The design of a shift register is discussed, and the way the shape of the element may be changed in order to increase the flux gain is shown. Also the logic element is analyzed and a new AND circuit is proposed. Practical examples are given of circuits realized with Permalloy sheets."
"A study was made of the change in anisotropy field, coercivity, angular dispersion, and creep threshold of an ordinary Ni-Fe film when coupled with a stripe-domain film. It was found that the values of these properties all increased as a result of the coupling."
"Relationships among dispersion, switching thresholds, ripple theory, the switching astroid, and the Landau-Lifshitz equation are indicated. It is conjectured that film dispersion should be less than a critical value of about 2 degrees if the influence of the switching astroid is to be prominent."
"Active device application feasibility of single-crystal CdCr2Se4, a ferromagnetic semiconducting spinel, has been demonstrated by the successful fabrication of p-n junctions which operate below the Curie temperature. The junction construction techniques and some of the characteristics of the junctions are discussed."
"A random-access magnetic-film memory with a desired bit density ρLof 108/cm2is postulated with writing and reading each to be performed with a deflectable electron beam within 1 μs. Curie point writing is suggested, while detection of the deflection of electrons due to the Lorentz force is proposed for readout. The transmission, reflection, mirror, and impact scanning methods of Lorentz microscopy are each explored as readout methods. Because of the absence of a heat-absorbing substrate, the transmission method is completely impractical, while the desired value of\\rhoLis unattainable for the mirror and impact scanning methods because of the fields from other bits (ρLmust be reduced to4 \\times 10^{6}/cm2for these methods). Moreover, the small attainable Lorentz deflection angles and the low brightness of conventional electron emitters necessitate further reduction of the bit density to values much less than ρLfor the reflection and mirror methods, unless a field-emission source is used. Excessive power dissipation forces a reduction of density below ρLfor the impact scanning method. The reflection method may be feasible if a sufficiently high fraction of elastically scattered electrons can be demonstrated, if a reliable field emission source can be employed, and if the sophisticated electron optics involved can be built and installed in ultrahigh vacuum."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"A new type of wall coupling previously considered implausible has been observed in coupled Permalloy films 2000 Å thick and 2 microns apart. The walls separate antiparallel domains oriented along the easy axis and zigzagging perpendicularly to it. A model for the magnetization distribution in the transition region between oppositely magnetized domains has been proposed for the evaluation of the magnetostatic interaction between superposed wall segments of the two films. The width of the transition regions and the angles formed with the easy axis have been calculated by minimizing the total free energy. The analytical results agree with the experimental values obtained from a dual beam Kerr apparatus monitoring the top and bottom films. Measured mobilities using interrupted pulses gave values in the range of1.6 \\times 10^{4}cm/s.Oe."
"Methods are described for reducing shot noise in magnetic-film memories which are to be read magnetooptically with the auxiliary aid of an electron beam. In such memories the principal source of shot noise is from the light which is used to illuminate the memory array. The following methods of reducing array shot noise are considered: 1) selective background, 2) magnetooptical balance, 3) temperature control of magnetooptical spectra in rare-earth iron garnets (REIG). It is concluded that the use of REIG spectra appears to offer not only the best but also a satisfactory solution to the array shot-noise problem."
"Residue arithmetic and digital balanced magnetic circuits have been separate objects of research in the last ten years. This paper points out certain potentially interesting areas for them to be considered together. Following a review, the concept for a residue arithmetic unit capable of forming sums and products at the same time is described. A small balanced magnetic residue arithmetic unit was designed and built, and it displayed satisfactory margins and stability."
"Investigations of square-loop ferrite toroids have established that disturbed 1 and 0 signals, as well as delta noise, are a function of the location of the drive wire within the aperture of the core. Experimental results indicate that the disturbed 0 as well as the delta noise increases as the relative displacement of the drive wire from the center of the core is increased. The disturbed 1 decreases with increasing relative displacement. Data are presented that demonstrate the effect of relative displacement and remanent permeability on the disturbed O as a function of the disturb current. Results are also presented for the effect of displacement on delta noise and the disturbed 1. The data indicate that the amount of irreversible flux switched by the disturb pulses increases as the relative displacement of the drive wire from the center of the core increases. Interpretation of the data utilizes Hammond's solution for the fields in a cylinder of constant permeability driven by an off-center drive wire."
"Attempts have been made to interpret magnetic annealing effects by assuming that the uniaxial anisotropy is caused by a directional order of local atomic configurations. By studying both evaporated and electroplated films, it is found that during an anneal the number of such elementary anisotropy sources is conserved. The angular dependence of magnetic annealing effects can be described by assuming a reorder of elementary anisotropy sources parallel to the magnetization at a rate independent of the magnetization direction. In the absence of a physical model describing the kinetics of reorder, it is shown how experimental values of the anisotropy field measured during hard-axis anneals can be used to predict for any annealing direction, the changes in anisotropy field, skew, and coercivity. Changes in angular dispersion were also studied but could not be explained satisfactorily. The variations of all main film parameters are found to be reversible during subsequent easy-axis anneals, and the recovery of the anisotropy field during such an anneal can be used to predict the recovery of all other parameters."
"The rotational astroid of uniaxial thin films may be obtained from the cross-field loopm_{x} , h_{y}graphically or electronically by assuming Slenczewski's tangent rule. The graphical construction by means of the tangent rule is demonstrated. The derivation of the transformation to obtain the astroid electronically is given, and a comparison is made with astroids obtained graphically as well as those obtained by direct static measurements. An astroid plotter has been constructed using standard analog computer components in conjunction with a Kerr apparatus. The resulting displays give the entire rotational astroid and completely avoid wall switching and blocking phenomena. Examples are shown of applications of the astroid plotter with particular emphasis on obtaining the influence of bit geometry for all orientations of magnetization."
"A 4-K-word 50-bit-per-word plated wire main memory was constructed and tested at a 200-ns cycle time. 32 matrix planes were constructed of the woven wire type (each plane contained 128 words and was stacked into 2 blocks for a total capacity of 4 K words). Special design features for high-speed operations are 1) memory stack construction with memory planes which are serially connected with grounded conductors, 2) balanced word line driving using transmission-line-type transformers, 3) bridge configuration of the digit-sense system, and 4) digit driving scheme using nonreturn-to-zero current. Operating margins of the system were tested with an account being taken of the effect of magnetic domain wall creeping for more than 106 disturb pulses."
"Creep measurements were made on single domain walls in thin magnetic films using high-speed pulses with variable rise and fall times (0.4 ns to>1 \\mus) and durations (<1 ns to 3 μs). Combinations of these pulses and dc fields were applied along the hard axis while simultaneously easy-axis dc fields were applied. The two basic measurements that were made were onset of creep and the distance the wall crept per pulse as a function of applied fields. Definite rise-time effects were found, the exact behavior depending on the domain wall structure. For Bloch walls, gyromagnetic effects of the total wall (similar to wall streaming) are present for rise times\\lsim 20ns, whereas for longer rise times the Bloch to Néel wall transition appears to be responsible. For films thinner than 900 Å the existence of a cross-tie structure was found to be necessary for creep. For this wall structure the exact mechanism which causes creep enhancement for rise times <100 ns is unknown."
"This simulation is intended for use at low, intermediate, and high bit densities. While simpler algorithms can be found for use with either very low bit densities only, or with very high bit densities only, they lack the generality needed for this purpose. The simulation is composed of three distinct sequential computations. First, using a noninteracting particle idealizedM_{r}-Hmodel and the arctangent head field formula, the tape magnetization is computed at 40 points per bit length in each of 5 laminae. Second, this magnetization is averaged throughout the tape thickness and harmonically analyzed. Finally, each harmonic component is weighted according to a demagnetizing-remagnetizing factor given previously, and the final output voltage waveform is computed. Linearity and superposition are thus assumed for all processes following the obviously nonlinear record mechanism. Computed outputs are compared with experimental results for both single transition and multiple transition inputs. The widths of computed and measured isolated output pulses differ by no more than 10 percent, without the adoption of physically unreasonable parameters. Output signals were computed for multiple transition inputs up to 20 000 flux reversals per inch (fr/in), and these compare well with experimental results up to 15000 fr/in."
"A brief description is given of a recently published method for measuring the linewidth of single-crystal ferrites. A theoretical analysis is made of the errors caused by the deviation from the ideal of two of the components in the test apparatus. These deviations include a VSWR greater than unity due to the input isolator and the finite directivity of the directional coupler. The range of possible error is given as a function of the degree of deviation from the ideal, and of the reflection coefficient due to the ferrite sample at resonance. A range of possible errors is given, since the actual error will also depend on the phase angle between the spurious signal generated by the deviation from the ideal and the proper signal. This phase angle is a function of geometry and can be different in different test setups. Experimental data support the theoretical analysis. With precision commercial equipment the measurement error is small. Thus if the VSWR due to the input isolator does not exceed 1.1, and the directivity of the directional coupler is 40 dB or more, the maximum error will be ±3 percent."
"The chopper voltage regulators using a diode and an LC filter for output rectification and filtering are widely used in dc-to-dc conversion. Three possible configurations are 1) a series connection of the filter choke and switch with the load, 2) a series connection of the choke and the parallel connection of the switch with the load, and 3) a series connection of a chopper and the parallel connection of a choke with the load. Static characteristics of the regulators vary considerably among the aforementioned circuits. The output-to-input voltage ratios and the output characteristics of the circuits listed above are defined in the continuous and discontinuous current domains. An estimate and a comparison of the regulator performances are given."
"Langmuir flow effects have been investigated in the laser gyro by measuring the integral of the beat frequency while tuning the frequency of oscillation. The results are in agreement with the traveling-wave Lamb model. The presence of the dc discharge tube walls gives rise to gas circulation in the laser gyro cavity. If the oppositely directed traveling waves see a net gas flow the gyro exhibits a null shift which depends on the magnitude and direction of the discharge current unbalance causing the net gas flow. The null shift is shown to be due to the mode pulling and pushing associated with the anomalous dispersion exhibited by the gain atoms."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"Ga1-xAlxAs was found to be a suitable material for semiconductor lasers. Stimulated emission from Fabry-Perot type of diodes has been observed at 77°K and 273°K. The highest peak energy of the laser line at 77°K so far is 1.65 eV (l = 7500Å). The Ga1-xAlxAs material was obtained by a liquid phase epitaxial method, described in a previous paper."
"The investigation of nonthreshold, phase-matched second-Stokes generation in benzene is reported. Using an off-axis resonator to enhance the fields in the appropriate direction, we find that the phase-matching angle is in reasonable agreement with theory."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of this periodical."
"Selected phenomena associated with the interaction of coherent radiation (such as laser pulses) and matter are briefly described from a unified point of view. An extensive list of references is provided."
"Low-frequency electrooptic coefficients have been measured for three semiconductors at 10.5 microns. The results arer_{c} = (5.5 \\pm 1) \\times 10^{-12}m/V for CdS,r_{41} = (1.4 \\pm 0.2) \\times 10^{-12}m/V for ZnTe, andr_{41} = (1.6 \\pm 0.1) \\times 10^{-12}m/V for GaAs. A comparison is made of the efficiencies of these materials in different modulator configurations. The effect of photoelectrically induced space charge is discussed briefly."
"A KD*P internal coupling modulator has been operated in a high-power single-frequency 0.63-micron He-Ne laser similar to that described earlier by Smith. It is shown that distortion in the output due to resonant buildup of energy in the passive cavity modes when the modulation frequency is equal toc/2Lcan be reduced to an acceptable level. The modulator bandwidth was greater than 700 MHz, and the maximum optical output power was 3.6 mW. For an optical output power of 0.5 mW, the performance index was estimated to be 0.4 mW of RF driving power for each MHz of bandwidth."
"In studies of the particle emission produced in the laser-surface interaction, production of high-energy neutral molecules has been observed. When a flux density of the order of 108W/cm2from aQ-switched ruby laser is absorbed by tungsten, nickel, titanium, carbon, and sodium targets, neutral molecules with energies of the order of 100 electron volts per molecule are observed in a quadrupole mass spectrometer. The dominant species appear to be H2, CO, and CO2. These observations are of interest in the study of the processes that occur in the laser-produced blowoff material."
"A method of use of certain scanning interferometers is described by which frequency differences of the order of one percent of the usual resolving width can be detected and measured. When so used, one relatively simple instrument is capable of displaying frequency differences in the 10-kHz to 1-GHz range in input signals at optical frequencies."
"Expressions are given that can be used to calculate the synchronization bandwidth of center-fed and end-fed, capacitive electrooptic modulators that employ a modulation field transverse to the direction of optical beam propagation."
"This experimental paper describes the operation of simple coherent laser-generated tunable source of medium power (1 to 104watts) in the visible spectrum (15 600 to 19 400 cm-1) with high repetition rate (1 to 20 pps). A broad-band source is created by aQ-switched Nd:YAG laser beam in a cell containing carbon disulphide, by a complex process involving multiple-order stimulated Raman scattering, self-focusing, and parametric line broadening. The spectrum of this source extends over more than 4000 wavenumbers in the infrared. It presents broad intensity peaks at distances from the laser line equal to multiples of the CS2Raman shift, and an intense continuum. This source is selectively up-converted by the laser beam itself in a nonlinear lithium niobate crystal with both beams collinear. Temperature adjustment of the crystal acts on the phase-matching condition and provides continuous tuning from 0.515 μ at - 100° C to 0.640 μ at 375° C. The linewidth is less than 11 cm-1. This simple tunable source includes no critical components and does not put stringent requirements on crystal quality. The up-converter also provides a good experimental method for studying the IR spectra of pulsed sources."
"The quenching of stimulated emission from organic dye solutions has previously been attributed to optical absorption by dye molecules in the metastable triplet state. By comparing the critical inversion expected for a dye laser with no triplet losses to that obtained from an analysis of the laser that includes the triplet-state loss, the magnitude of the optical loss due to the triplet state can be determined in terms of the absorption and emission spectra, fluorescence decay time, quantum yield, and laser wavelength for a given dye. Measurements of the critical inversion and triplet-state concentration for a flashlamp-excited laser are presented for the xanthene dyes acridine red, fluorescein disodium salt, rhodamine B, and rhodamine 6G. Experiments with 7-hydroxycoumarin were also performed but, due to lack of triplet-state absorption data, the triplet-state concentration could not be determined. It is possible from the measurements to conclude that triplet-state absorption is important in 7-hydroxycoumarin. The critical inversion is found to be approximately 1015cm-3for the xanthenes. This value is, in all cases, many times larger than the critical inversion calculated in the absence of triplet losses."
"The difference frequency between two 3.39-μ signals injected into a 6328-Å and/or 1.15-μ He-Ne laser has been detected as an amplitude modulation of the 6328-Å and/or1.15-muoutput intensity. Whereas the presence of 3.39-μ radiation decreased the 6328-Å intensity, it was found to increase the 1.15-μ intensity. Experimental measurements of the bandwidth of this detection scheme have been made for a 6328-Å laser detector. Under typical operating conditions the optimum bandwidth, which occurred for maximum 6328-Å laser intensity, was of the order of 500 kHz. It is shown that the rate-equation approach gives an adequate description of the dynamics of laser response and indicates the operating conditions that are necessary in order to achieve optimum bandwidth."
"The absorption, excitation, and fluorescence spectra and lifetimes of Mn2+and Nd3+in RbMnF3were investigated in the 5 to 300°K region. The fluorescence of Mn2+in these systems was found to originate from two metastable levels centered at 5820 and 6300 Å. The Nd3+emission appears as two groups of sharp lines centered at\\sim10 600and ∼8900 Å. Energy transfer from manganese to neodymium is observed even at room temperature where the Mn2+fluorescence is completely quenched and the energy transfer mechanism was found to be of nonradiative type. Detailed information was obtained on the temperature dependence of the fluorescence intensities and decay times of the manganese and neodymium emissions. The results give information on the kinetics of these fluorescent systems."
"An upper limit of5 \\times 10^{-10}seconds has been determined to the time of nonradiative relaxation between4T2and2Estates of ruby. The value was inferred from slope comparison of the experimental and theoretical rise curves ofR-line fluorescence."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of this periodical."
"A single Brewster window pulsed water vapor laser has been constructed. Its performance is compared with that of the laser built using the same mirrors, but with both enclosed in the discharge tube. With the Brewster window laser, 13 emission lines are detected, the strongest line at 27.95 μ having a peak power of 770 watts."
"Studies of second harmonic conversion of the 5145-Å line of the Ar II ion laser spectrum into the near UV at 2573 Å are presented. Close to optimum conditions were achieved by utilizing 90° phase matching in ADP and KDP crystals in a low loss focusing cavity. Small absorption losses in the cavity at the second harmonic frequency are presently preventing the realization of the expected theoretical efficiency."
"An atomic hydrogen maser has been operated that confines atoms in a volume whose linear dimensions are approximately ten times larger than those of previous masers of this type. The uncertainties associated with the wall frequency shift, presently the principal limiting factor in the absolute accuracy of frequency measurements with the hydrogen maser, should be reduced with this device, since the fraction of time an atom spends on the storage box wall is inversely proportional to the diameter of the box. Oscillations are achieved by the use of two resonant cavities coupled by a high-gain amplifier. The strong field maintained in one cavity prestimulates the atoms to radiate at an enhanced rate in the weak field of the other. With enough gain, self-sustained oscillation can be achieved at normal hydrogen fluxes and normal cavityQ-factor values. The theory of the two-cavity large storage box maser is considered and preliminary results are discussed."
"A systematic approach for finding new nonlinear optical materials is presented. The method is based on the use of the anharmonic oscillator model in conjunction with Miller's rule to estimate the second harmonic generation and electrooptic coefficients of a material, followed by an experimental measurement using a recently developed powder technique."
"Theoretical and experimental studies of thermal self-defocusing and self-focusing CW laser beams in liquids and solids are given. An analytical theory of thermal self-actions, including aberration phenomena, is developed. Special attention is given to the problem of thermal self-defocusing in liquids with flows (wind or convection). The new effect of continuous light-beam deflection in absorbing moving media is discussed."
"During the last two years since the 1966 Iternational Quantum Electronics Conference further progress toward obtaining high-power light pulses has taken place. An effective method of ultrashort light pulse generation (mode locking) has been developed, further development of the method of coherent amplification of light pulses has been recorded, and new prospective ideas have been put forward. The present paper briefly reports on the data obtained by us in these directions."
"Photochromic switching of additively colored La, Ce, Gd, or Tb doped CaF2with linearly polarized UV light and subsequent thermal decay of other photochromic effects leads to a linear dichroism of the two major absorption bands, band 1 (∼4000 Å) and band 2 (∼6000 Å), of the thermally stable state. The dichroism is due to a net reorientation of an anisotropic center having a symmetry axis that can lie along any one of the four\\langle111\\ranglecrystal directions. The photochromically active band, band 1, is shown to be due to an absorption dipole in the direction of the symmetry axis, while band 2 is due to two orthogonal absorption dipoles perpendicular to the symmetry axis. The direction of the symmetry axis and the character of the absorption bands suggest anFcenter perturbed by a rare earth replacing a nearest neighbor Ca. A possibility remains, however, that the center is more complex."
"A theory of nonstationary nonlinear wave phenomena occurring in the field of ultrashort high-intensity light pulses is developed (harmonic generation and parametric amplification stimulated Raman scattering). The main equations are given, the group velocity mismatch effects are studied, and special attention is paid to the high-conversion conditions. The possibilities of picosecond pulse narrowing on account of linear and nonlinear nonresonance parametric amplification and harmonic generation are studied in detail. The factors that determine the minimum light-pulse duration (dispersion broadening) are examined. A nonstationary theory of stimulated Raman scattering (SRS) is developed. Expressions for minimum pulse duration in forward and backward SRS are given. Reduction of Raman amplification with a picosecond pump is discussed."
"Relaxation time of the 0001 upper and 1000 lower CO2laser levels as a function of H2O, CO, and Xe gas pressure has been measured using the afterglow pulse-gain technique. Lifetime data for these gas mixtures and also for mixtures of CO2, CO2-H2, CO2-He, and CO2-N2, obtained previously, are analyzed and compared with available ultrasonic and fluorescence data. Results indicate that the 1000 and 0110 levels of CO2are strongly coupled and depletion of the lower laser level population is essentially limited by the relaxation rate of the 0110 level. Other processes involving energy exchange between CO2and foreign gases are detailed."
"The development, over the past several years, of high-power continuous duty argon ion lasers has encountered limitations in the form of a severe optical degradation problem. An absorbing film builds gradually on the optical components, which terminates the discharge tube. This layer absorbs a small fraction of the laser power, thermally distorts the optical components, and unbalances the optical cavity. In this way, the laser power that can be extracted is limited to some value far below the inherent capabilities of the active medium. Experimental investigations of Brewster's angle window degradation were performed on a large quartz bore laser capable of CW powers in excess of 100 watts. Methods of recognizing and measuring the extent of window damage were established. Contaminants generated by the discharge erosion of the electrodes and the bore structure proved to be the source of the problem. Studies of the transport processes suggested that the motion of charged particles under the influence of the plasma fields is the dominant mechanism by which the contaminants reach the terminal optics. On the basis of the understanding achieved during this study, various techniques to modify or prevent tile degradation were developed and assessed."
"The items discussed are: developments leading to the efficient nonlinear optical materials K3Li2Nb5O15and Ba2NaNb5O15; the relation of the stability to visible radiation shown by these materials to their, respectively, \"completely filled\" and \"filled\" tetragonal tungsten-bronze-like structures; a comparison of their physical properties to those of LiNbO3; the techniques and problems of growing optically satisfactory single crystals of Ba2NaNb5O15by pulling from the melt; processing required to obtain single domain sections and eliminate microtwinning; and the effects of excess Ba, Na, or Nb in the melt and the effects of substitutions by homologous cations."
"Output of a 10-MWQ-switched Nd3+glass laser was focused into several kinds of liquid media, and the change in the refractive indices\\deltandue to the focused laser beam was observed by means of double exposure holography using aQ-switched ruby laser as the light source. It has been shown that a filament of several 10 μ in diameter and several mm in length is formed around the focal point. The filament remains almost unchanged more than several μs. The sign of\\deltanafter the passage of the laser beam is negative. The temperature change at the filament has been estimated to be about 0.2°C, assuming\\deltanto be caused entirely by thermal effect of the beam. The absorption of the laser beam that causes this temperature change has been found to be linear in the flux density, the absorption coefficient being2 \\times 10^{-3}cm-1in CS2. The growth of spherical and plane pressure waves has also been observed."
"An account is given of the results of a recent investigation of multiphonon orbit-lattice relaxation of excited states of rare-earth ions in crystals. The use of these results in the design of quantum electronic devices is discussed, using as examples the Nd3+laser transition and a 10.6-μ infrared quantum counter. A discussion is presented of the infrared limit of quantum electronic devices using these materials. Extension of these concepts to transition-metal ions in crystals is considered and a measurement of1Eto3Emultiphonon decay in Al2O3: V3+is presented."
"We describe 1:108active frequency stabilization, 20-to 30-dB suppression of low-frequency noise, and suppression of axial-mode beats to 1100 MHz in an argon FNI laser at 5145 Å."
"Frequency and polarization selection of neodymium glass laser oscillators was achieved by directing secondary radiation into the laser cavity. The rapid energy transfer between the neodymium ions allowed the laser emission to duplicate the spectral properties of this secondary radiation."
"The spectral distribution of the output from a CW laser oscillator employing an inhomogeneously broadened transition with a finite cross-relaxatian rate is discussed. A theory is presented that describes the spectral broadening and the inversion distribution variations introduced by the finite cross-relaxation rate. It is found that the criterion that must be satisfied by the ratio of the cross-relaxation rate to the stimulated emission rate, in order that the spectrum reduce to its homogeneously broadened limit, is much more stringent than the amplifier \"no hole-burning\" condition. The average spectral envelope is described analytically. However, it is found that the self-consistent solution for the spectral distribution exhibits important structure within these average bounds. Computer solutions of the model equations are given for the Nd: glass and the 3.51-μ xenon lasers. These solutions are compared with experimentally observed spectral distributions and it is found that the dominant structure patterns are correctly described. For example, the solution for Nd:glass is composed of a series of sharp intense bands separated by weaker broad bands. This banding is observed in the time resolved spectra of the laser output. The width of these sharp bands is determined by higher order effects and may be the limiting width in producing the 3 ps pulses occurring during mode-locked operation. The xenon laser spectrum is composed of a very sharp central peak and several broader lobes."
"In the low-frequency approximation, the magnitude of optical nonlinearities can be calculated exactly for conduction electrons from known band structure neark = 0, and approximately for the valence electrons on the basis of simple tetrahedral bonding orbitals. Reasonable agreement with experimental data has been obtained, both for second harmonic generation and for third order susceptibilities in Group IV and III-V semiconductors."
"The frequency dependence of the differential cross section characterizing the resonant scattering of photons by the atoms of a dilute gas has been investigated. It is supposed that the scatterers are sufficiently dispersed so that interference between different scatterers may be neglected. Elastic collisions between the scatterers and the atoms of a buffer gas are treated in the impact approximation. A Maxwell-Boltzmann distribution of velocities is assumed. Analytic expressions for the cross section are obtained in the limits natural width\\ggcollision width\\ggDoppler width, Doppler width\\ggnatural width\\ggcollision width, and collision width\\ggnatural width\\ggDoppler width. The significance of these results is discussed."
"It is experimentally shown that the electrooptic properties of the ferroelectric phase of the new tungsten-bronze compositions can be treated as a biased quadratic electrooptic effectg_{ij). This is done by directly measuring the electrooptic behavior above the transition temperature in KSr2Nb5O15. A term linear in electric field is not found. Thus the crystal has a center of inversion. We findg_{33} - (n_{1}/n_{3})^{3}g_{13} = 0.10m4/C2. This value is very similar to that obtained for a number of compounds containing NbO6and similar octahedra. This value is also in good agreement with the effective room-temperature linear electrooptic coefficient rc, if it is assumed that rccan be considered to arise from a biased quadratic effect. Then we use these considerations systematically on other tungsten-bronze ferroelectrics, KSr2Nb5O15, NaBa2Nb5O15, Sr0.25Ba0.75Nb2O6, and Sr0.5Ba0.5Nb2O6. We calculate g33and g13separately and also findg_{33} - (n_{1}/n_{1})^{3}g_{13} = 0.10 - 0.11m4/C2for all of these materials. Thus all these ferroelectrics give similar values to those found elsewhere for oxygen octahedra compounds. We also calculate values for the spontaneous polarization or the induced change in the indices of refraction."
"Stabilized lasers usually exhibit systematic frequency shifts larger than their resettability; this phenomenon is well illustrated by the 6328-Å helium-neon laser. We describe a Lamb-dip stabilized laser that operates at 1.15259 μ in pure low-pressure (0.12-torr) neon. Optical heterodyne experiments indicate an accuracy exceeding 1 part in 109; short and medium term precisions of 1 : 1010are easily achieved. We also report the successful operation of a wavelength reference based on the saturation of sharp molecular absorption. In the first experiments the P(7) line of the v3band of methane is saturated inside the cavity of a 3.39-μ helium-neon laser. The saturation maximum at molecular line center produces an \"emission\" feature whose linewidth is less than 5 parts in 109. The pressure-induced offset is expected to be less than 1 part in 1010. Size scaling is expected to improve these first results by at least 1 decade."
"Continuous noble gas ion laser action is reported at eighteen wavelengths in the near UV and violet. All but one of these lines were previously reported in pulsed operation. Detailed results on gain and power output are presented for eight strong lines, including four previously reported CW by others."
"A new method of stabilization for the composite-cavity-type single-frequency laser was examined experimentally. This method is insensitive to variations in oscillation power levels, and hence this type of laser can be tuned as easily as an ordinary two-mirror single-frequency laser. The relative frequency stability obtained is about5 \\times 10^{8}per two minutes and2 \\times 10^{9}per second."
"An operating 2 × 2 Nd:YAG digital scan laser containing a crossed array of LiNbO3electrooptic switches for mode selection is described. Ultimate output parameters for a complete system include a 1-watt power output to any of approximately7 \\times 10^{3}spots, with MHz switching speeds. The required mode-selection voltage is under 100 volts, permitting the use of fast transistorized driving circuitry."
"A 10.6-μ optical heterodyne communication system that is in operation over a 30-km (18-mile) path is described. Television signals have been transmitted over the beam by the use of optical FM achieved with internal electrooptic phase modulation of the transmitter oscillator. A frequency deviation of 3 MHz is thus obtained for a driving voltage of 1 kV compared with the fundamental frequency noise of the system of about 1 kHz. For clear-day operation, average carrier-to-noise ratios at the receiver approach 60 dB, and demodulated video signal-to-noise ratios average 50 dB. Optical propagation experiments reveal amplitude scintillation noise in excess of 20 dB, represented by fluctuations of +10 dB and -10 dB from the average carrier level. Other observations show that the 10.6-μ beam has a remarkable ability to penetrate fog. Data related to scintillation, visibility, temperature, humidity, and optical absorption are presented."
"Self-Q-switching of a ruby laser rod at 77°K is reported. Detailed studies indicate that the basic mechanism involved is a saturable-absorber process achieved by shielding a particular part of the rod from the pump. An essential feature is that a non-uniform cavity photon density is required to achieve saturable-absorberQ-switching by unpumped laser atoms. Measurement of the pulse growth from noise and other pulse parameters is in reasonably good agreement with the saturable-absorber giant-pulse theory."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"A complete analysis is made of the mode structure in Michelson-type optical resonators using an eigenvalue method that gives solutions in terms of arm lengths, loss-gain parameters, and beam-splitter reflectivities. It is shown that mode suppression can be obtained in several possible ways, one of them based on the use of mixed polarization in the resonator. Also, it appears that more general mode control functions are possible, such as obtaining modes in pairs or triplets with frequency separations that can be adjusted by choosing appropriate design parameters."
"The theory of broadening of Raman lines in molecular gases due to rotational relaxation has provided an explanation for the observed N2nonlinear pressure dependence of the stimulated Raman scattering gain. The theoretical results are in sufficient agreement with the experimental data."
"A 400-MW neodymium laser beam is focused in a vacuum chamber filled with a noble gas at about 10-3mmHg. Operation at low pressure permits the isolation of the multiphoton effect from avalanche ionization. The ions produced at the focal point are collected in a Faraday cup. By varying the laser power through the focal point, we plot, in a log-log scale, the number of ions produced against the beam power through the focal point. The slope of the straight line drawn through the experimental points gives the number of photonsKsimultaueously absorbed by an atom. For all gases, experimental values ofKare always much lower than values of K0corresponding to the ratio of atom ionization energy to photon energy. Considerations are given to justify this fact in the frame of recent theories."
"Second harmonic radiation from a mode-locked neodymium: glass laser has been used to carry out time-resolved Schlieren studies of sparks produced by focused ruby laser radiation. Synchronization of the two lasers was achieved by means of a spark gap triggered by the neodymium laser radiation, which switched a Pockels cell within the ruby laser cavity. The use of this technique permitted a detailed study of the plasma development during the initial stage immediately after breakdown and results were obtained in four gases (neon, argon, nitrogen, and air) at pressures between 60 and 1520 torr, using peak laser powers ranging from 35 to 300 MW and pulse risetimes between 14 and 24 ns. The results obtained indicate that, on the rising part of the laser pulse, the motion of the plasma along the laser beam axis can be explained in terms of a traveling ionization-breakdown wave."
"Impurities are necessary to achieve considerable CW laser action in CO2since in pure CO2the disintegration of the lower laser level is too slow to maintain a substantial population inversion. The dissociation product CO, provided by the discharge itself if initially pure CO2is used in a sealed system, enhances the gain mainly because of its effectiveness in accelerating the relaxation of the first level of the bending mode to which the lower laser level relaxes. The characteristic time for energy exchange between these two levels is20 \\pm 5 \\mus at 1 torr, 400°K. Experiments in He-CO2mixtures support the assumption that the main influence of CO is to accelerate the decomposition of the lower laser level."
"Narrow line optical absorption and emission spectra have been observed in Nd3+- and Er3+-doped In2S3, CdIn2S4, and ZnIn2S4. All three spectra show essentially the same structure, and this indicates that the rare-earth ions occupy the same type of environment in the three lattices. The sites most probably have octohedral symmetry, since electron spin resonance results show that the site for CdIn2S4is octohedral. Fluorescence has been observed from all the Er3+- levels almost up to the host lattice band-gap energy above the ions ground state, under both X-ray and ultraviolet excitation. This fluorescence shows the same dependance on rare-earth concentration, method of excitation, and intensity for all three doped host lattices, provided the emission frequency is well removed from the band-gap frequency. The temperature dependance of the fluorescence, however, increases as the emission frequency approaches the host lattice band-gap frequency, and this indicates that a relationship may exist between the extent of the temperature dependance and the magnitude of the band-gap frequency."
"The process of storing a hologram on a photochromic film is considered and equations determining the optimal exposure time for taking holograms under different conditions are obtained. Experiments on storing holograms on photochromic organic films using a He-Ne laser (\\lambda = 0.63 \\mu) are described. Possible applications of holograms on photochromic films are discussed."
"This is a review of the more important theoretical and experimental results or intensity-dependent refractive index in relation to self-focusing and nonlinear scattering of light in liquids. The part played within the framework of the molecular-statistical theory of these processes by radial and angular molecular correlations, molecular redistribution, various nonlinear polarizations induced by fluctuations of electric fields of neighboring molecular multipoles, and geometrical shape of the molecules, is discussed. Numerical evaluations of the various contributions are given and compared with the available experimental data. It is found that while investigation of optically induced nonlinearities in gases and rarefied substances yields only values of linear and nonlinear optical polarizabilities of atoms or molecules, work on condensed systems yields information on the values of molecular quadrupoles and octupoles as well as on the functions accounting for molecular correlations of various kinds."
"The influence of the molecular interaction on the orientation of polarizable molecules in the presence of a strong ac orienting electric field is considered. It is shown that, under certain conditions, a molecular system can be driven into a new ordered phase (similar to a liquid crystal mesophase). This first order transition leads to an orientation quite far from saturation of the molecular alignment. It is also shown that the electric field intensity required to achieve a certain induced change in the dielectric constant, via the Kerr effect, can now be much smaller than in the formulation without molecular interaction. The role of the molecular interaction in self-focusing and trapping is briefly considered."
"A submillimeter resonance spectrometer has been developed, which employs a molecular gas laser as a source of radiation. Cyclotron resonance measurements of the quantum effects in the valence bands in germanium were taken with the use of a CW HCN laser. It is shown that the use of CW instead of pulsed lasers helps to avoid resonance line broadening and permits extensive quantitative results suitable for theoretical analysis to be recorded. The purpose of pursuing these methods to acquire detailed data on quantum transitions in semiconductors is to collect the information needed to design and develop a tunable submillimeter maser based on cyclotron resonance transitions."
"The quantum electronic properties of superconductors have been vividly demonstrated by means of experiments on Josephson tunneling junctions and small area superconducting contacts. Emphasis is placed on ring configurations where quantum state transitions corresponding to changes of magnetic flux of2.07 \\times 10^{15}webers are directly observed. Such systems can be used to make ultrasensitive measurements of magnetic fields, electric currents and voltages, cryogenic temperatures, and electro-magnetic radiation."
"The design factors are considered for a parametric image converter operating from the infrared to the visible. Means are proposed whereby broad-band, high resolution, high efficiency picture conversion might be obtained, and calculated performance figures are given for a hypothetical system based upon lithium niobate. These figures are compared with previous experimental ones obtained by the author and with those for a scanning photodetector system. It is concluded that an image converter competitive with existing systems in the 1 to 10-μ band might be built and made operational."
"Competition effects between rotational levels of the rotation-vibration band of CO2at 10.6 μ have been investigated in both traveling-wave and standing-wave CO2lasers operated in a single mode and single frequency. In a ring laser, Doppler shift and gain proportionality as a function of gas flow can be used to generate a gain anisotropy as a function of frequency so that the ring laser operates as a unidirectional oscillator. Over a narrow frequency interval, two rotational levels can be made to oscillate with oppositely directed traveling waves with an intensity crossover between the two Doppler centers. In this way, a discriminant can be derived that allows frequency stabilization to 5 parts in 1012in frequency. In standing-wave lasers of high-frequency stability, the rotational level competition can be observed by synchronous detection of a low-frequency variation of the heterodyne beat frequency signal of two lasers. The competition effects are due to intensity-dependent anomalous dispersion arising from saturation."
"The life and power outputs of sealed CO2lasers with xenon and hydrogen additives have been investigated. The results confirm the usefulness of hydrogen for achieving long life, but suggest that the power increases previously observed with the addition of hydrogen may be due to changes in CO2concentration rather than to relaxation effects."
"The properties of 1, 1' diethyl-γ-cyano-2,2'-di-carbocyanine-tetrafluoroborate (DTCDCT)and 1, 1'-diethyl-γ-nitro- 4, 4'-di-carbocyanine-tetrafluoroborate (DTNDCT) lasers have been investigated. High-efficiency (25 percent) spectral narrowing of the normal 150-Å-wide, 2-MW output of DTCDCT (around λ 7600 Å) to <0.01 Å, corresponding to a single longitudinal mode, is achieved with a novel longitudinally pumped (by giant pulse ruby laser) dye laser cavity. Beam divergence is <0.5 mrad, and spectral tunability is obtained by rotating the echelle grating and Fabry-Perot etalon cavity elements. DTNDCT transversely pumped by a mode-locked ruby laser (>150 MW peak power) produces a train of 100 percent modulated mode-locked dye laser pulses whose risetimes (<0.5 ns) and pulse widths (0.6 ns) are detector limited. The production of broad continua for nanosecond absorption spectroscopy is also described, together with measurements on the synchronization of the pumping and dye laser pulses. Finally, the direct spectrographic detection of near-resonant optical-frequency Stark effects in potassium is briefly described. Employing the DTCDCT continuum as absorption source, a red shift of75 \\times 10^{-3}cm-1of the λ 7699-Å resonance line was detected for a ruby laser perturbing field of power density ∼ 30 MW/cm-2."
"Paramagnetic ions Fe3+, substituted as an impurity in andalusite (Al2SiO5) host crystals, have been experimentally investigated. The spin-lattice relaxation and cross-relaxation times and inversion ratio in this spin system were observed. Dielectric properties of the host crystals were determined. General maser properties of trivalent-iron-doped andalusite crystal are discussed. Two types of the andalusite cavity masers are described. TheX-band three-level maser operates at a temperature of 2.1°K and a magnetic field of 1400 gauss. Electronic gains of 25 dB and instantaneous bandwidth of 3.5 \\pm 0.5 MHz, at the frequency of 9.45 GHz, were obtained. TheF-band push-pull maser operates at a temperature of 2.1°K and a magnetic field of 2800 gauss. Electronic gains of 30 dB and instantaneous bandwidth of 5.5 ± 0.5 MHZ, at the frequency of 100.4 GHz, were obtained."
"Laser action in the liquid medium Nd+3: SeOCl2is described. Details concerning the cell construction and the dependence of output on cell geometry and optical feedback are presented. Output energies of 13 joules with a differential efficiency of 1 percent are reported. An interpretation is offered for the phenomenon of self-Q-switching or the generation of multimegawatt spikes at low values of optical feedback."
"The paper presents the review of the latest works at the University of Moscow in the field of pulsed parametric oscillators and the new application of parametric light interaction-nonlinear spectrograph. This spectrograph is based on the steep frequency dependence of phase-matched angles for nonlinear mixing processes. Two new types of oscillators are considered: one having a cavity without dielectric coatings, the other a travelling-wave oscillator that is really an amplifier of parametric superluminescence. The latter has a narrow spectrum of radiation (1-2 Å). The most possible applications of oscillators and their necessary characteristics are given."
"A quantum mechanical perturbation treatment of optical parametric luminescence in nonlinear crystals is briefly given. The expression obtained for the emitted signal power applies to noncollinear phase-matching situations. Next, a detailed analysis of these interactions is given, with results in the form of signal wavelength versus observation angle, with fixed pump direction. The nonlinear crystal is LiNbO3and the pump is one of the lines from an argon ion laser. The effect of temperature is studied. Emphasis is on large observation angle effects, and on the singularities arising from the particular dispersion curves of the crystal. Experimental results provide a good check on noncollinear matching predictions. The far-field signal wavelength dependence on angle as measured from pump beam is approximately quadratic for small angles, and linear for the particular temperature that gives the collinear degenerate interaction. For larger angles, the law is not simple, and there is a limiting cone of directions with no matched signal outside. This cone appears brightest in far field. Applications discussed include the accurate measurement of nonlinear susceptibilities of crystals, the design of tunable optical parametric oscillators, and the measurement of refractive indices in strong absorption regions."
"The laser pulses obtainable from aQ-switched CO2laser are calculated and compared with the results of a number of different techniques of performing theQ-switching. The continuously operating laser is considered first. The transition rates between the molecular vibrational states and their occupations are derived from the measured CW power. The laser tube was 1.9 meters long, had a diameter of 2.4 cm, and used flowing CO2-N2-He gas. For rapidQ-switching, maximum pulses of 4.5 mJ energy and 85 ns half width are predicted. Such pulses were observed with a rotating mirrorQ-switch. However, that technique has a limited pulse repetition rate and experiments on closely spaced pulses are difficult to interpret. A more flexible technique, which allows a much greater variation in the experimental parameters, is the use of a fast shutter to interrupt the laser beam in the cavity. While this switch is somewhat slower than the rotating mirror it does produce pulses of the same energy at repetition rates up to 5000 per second, and smaller pulses at any desired higher rate. From these measurements the upper and lower laser level lifetimes are deduced. They are found to agree well with the values obtained from the CW measurements."
"Results are given for the beam distortion suffered by low order Gaussian-Laguerre modes propagating through a saturable laser amplifier. Both uniform and Bessel small-signal gain distributions are considered. Beam narrowing caused by saturable loss is also treated."
"Measurements were made of the radiative lifetime for the 001-100 transition in N2O, the absolute population densities of the laser levels, and the saturation parameter in a typical flowing N2O-N2-He laser. These numbers are compared with the corresponding parameters in the CO2-N2-He system to explain the difference in their performance characteristics. In addition, dissociation of N2O in a discharge and power enhancement in the N2ON2-He laser by adding CO are discussed."
"We have investigated the frequency reproducibility of a He-Ne laser (0.63μ). We used the dependence of absorption on frequency in the strong-field standing-wave limit to provide stabilization. An absorption cell with a pure neon discharge atT = 73\\degC could be placed both inside and outside the resonator. In the former case, a magnetic field was used to influence the gain profile of the line in the He-Ne mixture in such a way as to increase the accuracy with which the center of the absorption line corresponded to the frequency for maximum power output of the laser oscillation. In the latter case, we used a single-mode laser to obtain saturation of absorption in the cell. The long-term reproducibility obtained was\\approx 10^{-9}. The short-term stability was much better. To obtain a very narrow dip in the center of the absorption line and consequently much higher stability (10-13), we have investigated the vibration spectrum of absorption in the strong field of a standing wave in the CO2laser (10.6μ) and He-Ne-Ch4(3.39μ) systems."
"The amplification before detection of the carrier of a modulated optical signal by a narrow-band quantum amplifier enhances the signal-to-noise ratio, particularly when the signal wave-front is distorted. A further improvement is obtained by using a combination of wide-band and narrow-band quantum amplifiers. The practical application of these schemes requires a degenerate regenerative ring-type amplifier capable of amplifying arbitrary transverse field configurations. Experiments show that such an amplifier with a gain of 24 dB and a bandwidth of 1 MHz is feasible. The incident beam axis can be displaced by as much as ten times the beam-waist radius without losing more than 4 dB in gain. Frequency modulation may be converted into amplitude modulation by the phase shift introduced in the carrier."
"A circulating-liquid laser system utilizing Nd in selenium oxychloride is described. An advantage of such a laser is the etticient cooling of the medium. Special components, such as the laser head, circulating pump, and cells compatible with the chemical properties of the medium had to be developed. The system has been operated at I pulse per second with an output of 0.2 joule per pulse with no essential limitations on running time or higher performance capabilities."
"Experiments on the amplification of CW and pulsed infrared signals at 10.6-μ, wavelength have been carried out on CO2laser amplifiers excited by dc and pulsed electrical currents. Measurements of low signal gain, gain saturation, repetitive pulse amplification, and optical distortion have led to the design of a 1-kW average power transmitter with 10-μs infrared output pulses. The design, construction, and performance of this device are discussed. Measurements of pulse shaping, pulse-to-pulse stability, output beam divergence, and stability are outlined."
"An enhanced two-photon emission has been observed between the 6S and the 4S levels of potassium. The priming field is the stimulated electronic Raman emission at 2720 cm-1due to scattering of ruby laser radiation from the4P_{3/2}state in potassium. The intense emission at the complementary frequency ω2is close to the 5P → 4S resonance lines. As a result, the coupling coefficient has a resonance character that is favorable for the enhancement. The observed results are compared with a simple analysis. The relation of the enhanced emission with two-quantum absorption, stimulated Raman effect, and parametric four-photon processes is discussed."
"Theoretical calculations indicate that laser radiation may be used to heat a deuterium plasma to temperatures at which thermonuclear neutron emission may be observed. Using a neodymium glass laser, producing a 20-joule pulse of approximately 10-11-second pulse length, preliminary evidence of neutron emission has been obtained."
"In order to examine the CO2laser oscillation mechanism, a measurement was made of the unsaturated gain of CO2laser radiation in an active medium of gas discharge containing CO2, N2, and He. A two-beam optical balance method was used to measure the gain in an amplifier; the accuracy of the measurement was approximately 10 percent. The output of a CO2-N2-He laser was used as the radiation source. The absolute power of the probing beam, which has a diameter of approximately 5 mm, was maintained at approximately 15 mW. Saturation was not observed at probing signal levels up to 80 mW. Amplifier tubes with diameters of 55, 34, 12, and 5 mm were used. The dependence of the amplifier gain on the current density, pressure, composition of the gas mixture, and tube diameter was measured. Comparison was also made of the calculated and measured values for the laser population inversion."
"This paper treats the intensity crossover phenomenon, which often occurs when a pair of orthogonally polarized laser oscillations is tuned across the atomic gain profile. It is shown theoretically that a very sensitive frequency discriminant can be obtained by appropriately adjusting the polarization ellipticity of such oscillations. In addition, experimental results are given which illustrate the characteristics of the discriminant and demonstrate its applicability to frequency stabilization."
"A discussion is given of the conditions for production of a phase-matched optical third harmonic of a high-powered laser source by introduction of anomalous dispersion into a liquid medium. In particular, the role of the concentration of absorbers and their optical oscillator strength is discussed. In addition, experimental results previously reported by the authors for generation of the third harmonic of the neodymium laser line in the dye fuchsin red dissolved in hexaflueroacetone sesquihydrate (HS) have been extended for the same dye in another solvent, hexa-fluoroisopropanol (HI). In the latter solvent, phase-matched third harmonic generation is achieved at appreciably lower dye concentrations-37.5 g/l HI versus 45.0 g/l HS. The magnitude of the third harmonic signals generated at the phase-matched dye concentrations is approximately the same in both solvents, corresponding to about 0.2 mW for a laser power of 10 MW. A discussion of these findings is given in terms of the two physically important parameters that enter into the problem-the third order nonlinear susceptibility, and the optical attenuation at the third harmonic frequency."
"The shape of a collision-broadened spectral line taking into account an interatomic potential that includes both repulsive and attractive forces is obtained, in the impact approximation, using Anderson's formulation. Results for the lineshape, shift, broadening, and asymmetry are given for a general potential of the inverse power law form and for the Lennard-Jones potential. It is shown that inclusion of repulsive forces leads to results that exhibit experimentally observed behavior of the shift and asymmetry of a collision-broadened line in a range of conditions. Some comparison of experimental results and theoretical estimates for the 0.63-μ line of20Ne in a3He-20Ne discharge and in a20Ne discharge at laser-operating conditions are given."
"Foamed polystyrene is used to form a permanent recording of infrared laser beams, from which the intensity distribution can be calculated quantitatively. Minimum-power densities of 450 mW/cm2can be recorded. This technique is used to analyze the single-mode operation of a CO2laser."
"The performance of a single-mode single-frequency CO2laser operating on a single rotational-vibrational transition is described. The laser is sealed off with a length of 152 cm, and it has a continuous output power of 60 watts. Mode-competition phenomena are of great importance in obtaining this high output power of high spectral purity. In-order to maintain the high output power over a long period of time, we constructed our laser with a water vapor replenisher and a bypass to reduce gas segregation in the discharge. The use of a plane parallel germanium out-coupling window creates conditions for a single rotational-vibrational transition. The experimental procedure and results are discussed."
"The vibrational level populations in CO2lasers with mixtures of CO2, N2, CO, and He have been calculated using a method developed previously in [1] and [2]. A number of transition probabilities between the vibrational levels due to molecular collisions, the dependences of the population inversion upon various laser parameters (such as the total and partial pressures of the gases, electron density, and tube radius), and the radial profile of the laser gain are calculated in this paper. The calculations show that the CO molecules formed in the discharge play a significant role in the laser. The results given in this paper and in [2] allow us to explain all the main characteristics of both the pumped and the sealed-off CO2lasers."
"Consideration is given to the possibility of using stimulated Compton scattering for obtaining laser action. The advantages of a Compton laser are that it is voltage tunable over a wide frequency range and may provide intense, coherent radiation in portions of the spectrum where other sources are not readily available. It is found that appreciable gain exists at far infrared wavelengths."
"This paper presents the results of a study of the behavior of some saturable dye filters used with ruby lasers. We review some apparently contradictory results obtained earlier and present modified forms of energy level models, which are consistent with the known photophysical properties of the molecules. We then present experimental evidence to elucidate the nature of the overall relaxation time, the source of the residual absorption, and the nature of the transient spectral hole burning, which gives rise to frequency-locking between different lasers. On the basis of the frequency-locking experiments, and our model, it is possible to calculate the rate at which the broad molecular absorption band couples into the narrow spectral width of the radiation field during pumping. This time is of the order of5 \\times 10^{-12}second for chloro-aluminum phthalocyanine in pyridine. Taking into account considerations such as excited-state absorption, mode of bleaching, etc., we conclude that the phthalocyanine dyes are best suited as saturable absorbers at low power levels (<5 MW/cm2but are unsuited for mode-locking applications. Cryptocyanine has lower residual losses above 10 MW/cm2and can be used for mode locking. Both types of dye exhibit very narrow spectral hole burning, which can be used to frequency-lock separate lasers."
"The Statz-deMars rate equations for a four-level laser are replaced by equations that allow for variation of the photon densities and inversion along the laser axis. Analytic solutions of these first order partial differential equations are found for the incubation region of the laser spike, i.e., for the time before stimulated emission can affect the inversion. Analytic solutions of the Statz-deMars equations are also derived for the incubation region. The spatially dependent equations are solved numerically in the spiking region for normal andQ-switched systems. After integration of these solutions to obtain the total photon number, comparison with the Statz-deMars solutions shows that there are differences if the cavityQis low. The effect of stimulated scattering processes within the laser cavity is studied. It is found that these processes can be effective self-Q-switching mechanisms. The spatial variation plays a vital role in suchQ-switching."
"The time-resolved laser spectrum of a pulsed argon discharge has been examined in the visible region with a fast response photodiode and with an image converter camera in the streak mode. At 10 mtorr pressure of argon, laser action takes place on up to eight lines between 4579 and 5145 Å, seven of these lines being4p \\rightarrow 4stransitions and one a4p' \\rightarrow 3dtransition. With peak discharge currents of 50 to 1500 amperes (400 to 12000 amperes-cm-2) and duration of about 2 μs, laser action takes place both during the current pulse and in the afterglow. The primary laser output occurs during the first half of the current pulse, while the current is increasing, and then laser action ceases until the current has ceased to flow. In the afterglow, laser action recommences and lasts for up to 60 μs. The effects of variation of gas pressure, applied potential difference, and current pulse length on the threshold conditions, intensities, and duration of the lines are examined."
"Accurate relative measurements have been carried out of the nonlinear optical coefficients of KDP, ADP, LiNbO3and α-iodic acid (HIO3). Also, a new absolute value for the standard optical nonlinear coefficient d36of KDP can be inferred."
"This paper presents experimental results and theoretical considerations about the phase-locking phenomena of multitransverse, longitudinal modes. We first show the mechanism of the self-locking phenomenon of these modes, considering the frequency and the phase relationship between the fundamental modes and the combination tones. Experiments indicate the occurrence of such a phenomenon in TEM01+ TEM10modes. We next mention the behavior of our type of modes when the loss modulation is applied in the cavity. With the rather asymmetric modes noted above, we enforced the locking of the transverse-mode separation. Further, we observed another type of self-locking phenomenon with TEM01+ TEM10modes. Each transverse mode is locked independently and the pulses of each mode appear alternatively."
"Observations have been made of the mode power spectra for both ring and normal He-Ne lasers operating at 6328 Å. The interest in such observations is twofold. First a proposed frequency-dependent loss mechanism, which arises through saturation of the medium dispersion, and the use of an aperture to control the losses in the laser cavity are evaluated. Secondly, this loss mechanism, in conjunction with the importance of mirror-image mode competition, is related to the observed asymmetries of the mode spectra from normal lasers. The mode spectra in a normal laser are typically asymmetric, with the bulk of the oscillation energy occurring to the low-frequency side of the gain curve. It is shown that for very low values of the aperture loss, the normally observed spectrum becomes degenerate with a spectrum that is its mirror image about the center of the gain curve. This observation is discussed in terms of mirror-image mode competition and the frequency-dependent loss. Calculations of the frequency-dependent loss permit the prediction of the directionally-dependent loss required in a ring laser to suppress one of the directions of oscillation. The values of this loss are typically a small fraction of the excess gain in either direction. It is shown that these predictions, together with some qualitative implications, are well borne out by experiment."
"The paper presents the results of a rigorous calculation of processes involving giant pulse generation when variations of population and fields along the cavity are essential. It is shown that when the amplification factor of the active medium is high, the generation process is changed and new phenomena occur, which result in pulsations of the output radiation pulse. One of these phenomena is similar to population oscillations studied earlier for the case of an amplifier. The second phenomenon consists of \"self-modulation\" of the wave, and breaks the single-mode oscillation."
"This paper deals mainly with preliminary results obtained by focusing the Oscar-rewarded C.G.E. laser in air and deuterium of moderate pressure. A fast plasma expansion is identified as a breakdown wave. The influence of the initial pressure on propagation speed and light absorption was studied. Breakdown waves were also found in light-matter interaction in high-pressure gas (30-ns laser pulses) and in solid-state dielectrics (short pulses). A theoretical approach is outlined that would permit the achievement of high temperatures, despite the presence of breakdown waves."
"CW laser emission, attributed to electronic transitions in the iodine atom, has been obtained at 8 wavelengths between 3.0 and 9.0 μ. The strongest CW lines are at 3.429 and 4.852 μ. One of the weaker CW lines, 5.497 μ, becomes relatively strong when the laser is operated in a pulsed mode. The laser self-pulses under certain operating conditions. The gain on the strong lines is high, and oscillation can be obtained with very little optical feedback. A maximum power output of 325 mW from all the lines has been obtained to date. The power is shifted from line to line by placing a prism or a selective absorber within the cavity."
"The generation of picosecond pulses by means of semiconductor lasers is reviewed, citing results of an investigation of the characteristics in spike and bistable regimes. Self-synchronization of axial modes in a laser with an external mirror is also discussed."
"As part of a general program of research on time response of a laser medium to optical transients, we have studied the linear (small-signal) response to a rectangular pulse signal input, both theoretically and experimentally. The theory for the case of Lorentzian homogeneously and Gaussian inhomogeneously broadened transitions has been developed using a two-level density matrix formulation. The results are negligibly different for the two broadening mechanisms for an amplifying medium, where the line center contribution is most important. The step response of a laser is measured experimentally and the bandwidth of the medium is deduced. Its pressure dependence in a mixture of CO2, N2, H6of 1:0.88:4.53 is determined."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of this periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"A monomode carbon dioxide laser, delivering a constant power on any rotational line of either the 10.4-μ or the 9.4-μ band, has been achieved by control of the cavity frequency and of the gain. A piezoelectric ceramic has been used either for a frequency sweep of the cavity or for output stabilization at the bottom of the Lamb dip. This laser has been used for two studies."
"Some of the He-Ne and He-Xe laser lines in the infrared can be tuned within several gigahertz by applying an axial magnetic field. Stark patterns of vibration-rotation lines of organic molecules were observed at 3.36-, 3.39-, 3.50-, and 5.57-μm wavelengths. With applied Stark fields up to 50 kV/cm, many Stark components were resolved and some of the transitions of H2CO, HDCO, and CH4were definitely assigned. Molecular masers in the far infrared cannot be tuned over any appreciable range, but the Stark effects of the rotation lines of NH3at two fixed far-infrared frequencies of the D2O maser were observed. The observations of a Stark component of theJ = 3 \\leftarrow 2line at 171.6 μm and the forbidden Stark components of theJ = 6 \\leftarrow 5line at 84.1 μm are reported."
"Observation of spontaneous and stimulated Raman emission in liquids with various Raman linewidths under short pulses excitation shows the absence of self-trapping and Brillouin stimulated scattering, and the normal behavior of unperturbed stimulated Raman emission. The transient effect in liquids with small linewidths makes possible a determination of the linewidth of the laser light, and the duration and intensity of the pulses."
"Experimental investigations of a long 6328-Å He-Ne laser with a neon absorption discharge cell inside the laser cavity are presented. A considerable difference between the strong field saturation parameters for absorption and gain in the medium leads to a new principal of behavior in the long laser. At small absorption the self-locking of modes and spectrum \"weeding out\" are observed. The oscillating locked-mode interval reaches9 c/2Lwith increase of the absorption. When the absorption value is about 1 percent per pass, single-mode operation takes place. The maximum single-mode intensity is about 80 percent of the total output in the absence of absorption. At higher field amplitude in the absorption cell as compared to the gain cell, the increase of absorption leads to spectrum narrowing of thec/2Lself-locked mode down to the selection of a single mode. In the last case only the mode that is located near the absorption line center oscillates. In addition various hysteresis phenomena are observed."
"The widths of the depolarized Rayleigh lines for CO2, N2, and H2are measured and used to calculate reorientation cross sections. The reorientation arises only from anisotropic intermolecular interactions."
"The general technique of the excitation of a system into a linear superposition of states is reviewed. Recent results in ruby are presented together with a simple theory which predicts Raman echoes."
"The fluorescent light from two atomic levels is studied assuming that the atoms are subjected to a gas discharge, to a static magnetic field, and, simultaneously, to a laser beam having the transition frequency between the atomic levels. Calculations are developed in the formalism of irreducible tensor operators. One takes into account the existence of isotropic relaxations and cascade effects due to spontaneous emission between the upper and the lower levels. Following Lamb, the laser beam is described classically by its electric field, and its effects are calculated by perturbation theory. It is predicted that the σ component of fluorescent light exhibits the Hanle effect, which allows one to measure the relaxation rates\\Gamma(0)and\\Gamma(2)of the population and of the alignment of the emitting level, respectively. Experimental agreement with the theoretical analysis has been found for the3s_{2}, 2s_{2}, and2P_{4}levels of Ne. Among the experimental results obtained by this method are the natural widths and the collision cross sections for population (quenching collision) and for alignment. Several transition probabilities are also derived. Furthermore, the theory of coherent imprisonment of the fluorescent line has been found valid even if laser pumping light is used."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of this periodical."
"Two-photon fluorescence traces used for picosecond pulse-width measurement are analyzed and described by intensity correlation functions, also known as second-order coherence functions. The correlation functions and the fluorescence traces are discussed for three special types of light emission and calculated in detail for a three-mode laser model in free-running, mode-locking, and FM-like operation. A rigorous calculation for the fluorescence intensity excited by a laser oscillating in a large number of modes with arbitrary amplitudes and phases is also given. The shapes of the fluorescence traces are found to be essentially the same for both, free-running and ideally mode-locked emission, but with different contrast ratios of 1.5 : 1 and 3 : 1, respectively."
"Isotope shifts in Cd112, Cd114, and Cd116have been measured using enriched isotopes in a cadmium laser. Preparatory measurements using natural cadmium showed an anomalous change from a double-peaked spectral profile to a single-peaked profile when the active tube length was doubled."
"Measurements were made of the nonlinear interaction in a saturable absorber between two traveling waves of different planes of polarization. The experimental results indicate that the theory proposed by Dienes, which includes level degeneracies, correctly describes the nonlinear interaction."
"The efficiency of a YAG: Nd3+-laser and the influence of pump-power level and of spectral filtering the pump light was studied. The laser was pulsed high above threshold. Without filtering the pump light, the maximum laser emission was reached 30 μs before the maximum pump power. With filtered pump light, the efficiency is doubled and the laser emission roughly follows the pump power. Dynamic input-output characteristics show an efficiency minimum at the pump-power maximum."
"In this paper laser resonator interferometry for submillimeter-wave lasers is discussed. In particular, the application of laser resonator interferometry to the study of various aspects of laser emission is shown. The basis of this interferometry is an understanding of the resonator mode structure, which is derived from a theory of resonators with low Fresnel numbers and dielectric enclosure. The mode structure is confirmed by experimental results. Interferometric studies reveal a relationship between the mode structure and the shape of the laser output pulses. This allows for some conclusions with respect to the molecular mechanism that is responsible for laser emission. This mechanism is not yet understood for the long wavelength emissions of ICN (+H2?), up to 0.774 mm."
"The minimum obtainable pulse duration for a mode-locked ruby laser is the reciprocal linewidth, which amounts to approximately 2 ps. The present correspondence describes a system achieving this limit."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"The simultaneous action of a RF perturbation between the Zeeman sublevels of an atomic transition, which is also sustaining laser oscillations, is given further consideration. General equations are derived that describe the phenomena in a rotating effective magnetic field basis. These are valid for any level of the RF perturbation, being then solved by iteration to third order in the laser electric field and integrated exactly over the atomic velocity distribution. Results are given for single-π-mode laser operation on aJ = 1 \\rightarrow 0transition and for single-mode operation on each of the well-resolved σ components of the Zeeman splitting. The extension to more complex transitions, such as aJ = 1 \\rightarrow 2, is then given. A dominant resonance peak in the laser intensity occurs when the RF equals the Zeeman splitting of either the upper or lower states of the transition. Population differences amongst the upper sublevels are more effective than those between the lower sublevels and give the smallest resonance widths. For operation on the σ modes, the main effect is a reduction in the saturation coefficient β, together with smaller changes in the coupling coefficients θ between the oscillations. Such changes will affect the general behavior near the singular points of the nonlinear equations, and will change the shape of the curves of mode intensities as functions of cavity detuning and magnetic field."
"The wide power dispersion and high effective temperature of radiation call forth the useful application of lasers for the investigation of high-temperature and gas dynamical processes as well as in plasma physics. By means of lasers, it is possible to investigate the phase transition in any substance, determine the thermophysical parameters, and study the phase transition kinetics in the wide interval of temperature and pressure. It is also possible to study the state equation and optical properties of various substances at high temperatures. The powerful lasers permit production of high-temperature plasmas of any chemical composition and the strong shock wave in the gases and dense media. The maximum obtained velocities reach up to 300 km/s and temperatures more than 100 eV. The described plasma is an interesting object for study of various elementary processes taking place in the equilibrium as well as in the nonequilibrium state of the substance."
"A pulsed electrical discharge in a flowing mixture of Cl2and HI produces laser action on the 3 → 2 and 2 → 1 vibrational transitions of HCl."
"It has been observed that the intensity of laser emission from two different dye solution lasers (DTTC in DMSO and cryptocyanine in glycerol) reaches a maximum at the shortest wavelength in the emission band before it peaks at the longest. A simple model of dye solution lasers which explains this wavelength-time effect is presented. This effect can be interpreted to yield information on the rate of relaxation of internal energy of the dye molecule. The evidence suggests that, on the time scale of the laser action in these experiments (∼20 ns) the ground state of the dye molecule is inhomogeneously broadened. In addition, it is shown that certain other of the dye laser's properties may be understood by analysis of the solution's absorption and fluorescence spectra."
"Excitation cross sections for some of the2p^{4} - 3pupper laser states of neon and4p^{4} - 5pstates of krypton have been calculated by assuming a fast electron strips away one of the bound valence electrons of the neutral atom in a very short time compared to the relaxation of the ion. Exact wavefunctions for the upper laser states of neon II and krypton II in terms of pureLSwavefunctions are found."
"This paper reports the first experimental verification of the existence of the self-induced effect of spread and serious distortion of the infrared beam from the CO2laser system at 10.6 μm when propagating in various liquids. The power-dependent shape of the laser beam after passage through the liquid cell was visibly displayed on the Kalvar film by virtue of the thermal development method originally invented by our laboratory. The phenomenon observed is considered as having a thermal origin due to the partial absorption of the infrared beam; yielding localized heating, and thereby thermal convection which causes a complex change of the refractive index around the beam passing through the medium. The interference fringes found in the distorted beam pattern are likely attributed to the spherical aberration in the thermal defocusing lens induced in the material by the laser beam itself."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of this periodical."
"With the aim of finding laser glasses operating in CW at room temperature, a comparative study was made of various neodymium-doped vitreous substances: silicate, borate, germanate, phosphate, and fluoride glasses. About 500 samples of phosphate glasses, doped with neodymium, were prepared and their optical properties studied. The phosphate glasses have three main advantages for laser action. 1) The fluorescence band is narrower than in silicate glasses and can be as sharp as 153 Å. 2) The optical pumping is more efficient in phosphate glasses. 3) The lifetime of the 4F3/2level is about 300 μs. The phosphate glasses have very interesting laser characteristics, i.e., in pulsed operation the threshold is 1 joule. Such a rod exhibits semicontinuous operation at room temperature pumped by a krypton arc lamp; when excited in ac, the threshold is about 1 kW. It was found that the fluoride glasses have even more promising laser properties."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"Experimental results show that superposed dc excitation can improve the power output of RF excited He-Ne lasers over the total useful life of the units. The results show that the variable dc excitation results in about twenty percent increase in laser power out."
"An anharmonic vibronic oscillator model is set up and used to derive general expressions for nonlinear susceptibilities. The system is handled both classically and quantum-mechanically, and the results are shown to agree. It is shown that, when one of the interacting fields has a frequency close to that of an optical phonon, the nonlinear susceptibility is dominated by the same term in the anharmonic potential that is dominant in Raman scattering. This result agrees with the experiments and analysis of Faust and Henry. These arguments are extended to cover electrooptic coefficients, for which the model is consistent with the work of Kaminow and Johnston. On the basis of the anharmonic vibronic oscillator model, estimates are made of the magnitude of infrared electroreflectance effects and their counterpart, optical rectification. The conversion gain of such a rectifier is calculated. The model is also used to determine Raman or parametric gain, depending on whether the idler frequency is or is not close to the optical phonon frequency. Finally the model is used to compute the pyroelectric coefficient, which, it is shown, ought to be proportional to the specific heat, in agreement with recent measurements by Heiland and Ibach on zinc oxide."
"A rigorous quantum-mechanical treatment of the internally phase-modulated laser is performed in terms of traveling-wave modes of the quantized electromagnetic field. A detailed treatment of the modulation process is consistent not only with the phase-locked and FM behavior of the laser, but also describes the external (to the laser cavity) frequency shifting of phase-locked light and single-frequency (\"super-mode\") operation of the FM laser."
"An intracavity voltage-tunable laser frequency and polarization selector consisting of a birefringent electrooptic crystal and a partial polarizer is presented. The polarization eigenmodes and eigenvalues of this system have been calculated and verified by experimental results showing electronic frequency tuning of a CW Nd:YAG laser over at least 130 GHz at 1.06 micron. Electronic polarization switching of the laser oscillation between orthogonal linear polarizations is also obtained."
"Laser mode coupling produced by oscillatory motion of a cavity mirror is analyzed by means of a quasi-normal mode expansion of the cavity field which satisfies the time-dependent boundary conditions. The quasi-normal mode-coupling equations are identical in form to the coupled-mode equations for the phase-modulated fixed length laser."
"The population inversion between the3S_{2}level and the2P_{4}level for He-Ne gaseous laser is calculated by solving rate equations in the four-level system in the steady state. Using this result, the unsaturated gain and the output power in laser oscillation as a function of discharge current are obtained for laser mediums with inhomogeneously broadened lines. The output power dependency on the excitation parameter is also obtained. The collision width and various transition rates in the transfer from helium to neon, spontaneous emission, induced emission and absorption, electron collision, and diffusion are appropriately chosen for the mixture of 1.0 torr helium and 0.1 torr neon in a 6-mm ID laser tube. The theoretical values of single-pass unsaturated gain for 65-cm plasma length and output power are 4.7 percent and 38 mW/cm2, respectively, for a discharge current of 30 mA. The experimental values are 4.5 percent and 33 mW/cm2, respectively, and almost coincide with the theoretical values. Furthermore, the saturation parameter is obtained theoretically as 490 mW/cm2."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of this periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"A sealed-off CO2laser tube was operated with continuous, almost constant, power output at 10.6 μm for more than 1000 hours. A Ni cathode that was maintained at 300°C acted as a catalyst to regenerate CO2back into the tube from the oxygen and carbon monoxide formed in the discharge. By the time 1100 hours of operation had passed, 92 percent of the original CO2concentration was still available in the tube."
"Optical gain and losses of GaAs laser diodes were deduced from the length dependence of the threshold current density and the differential external quantum efficiency at 77 and 300°K. It has been confirmed that the optical gain is proportional to the threshold current density Jt; and the optical losses are given by the sum of current independent term\\alpha_{0}', and current dependent term\\beta\"J_{t}, which is proportional to the threshold current density. The term\\beta\"J_{t}depends on the laser wavelength because the threshold current density depends on the laser wavelength. It is believed that\\beta\"J_{t}is caused by the penetration of the laser oscillations into the noninverted regions surrounding the inverted population region of thep-njunction."
"InternallyQ-switched light pulses have been obtained from junction lasers. It is believed that this is a completely new observation for semiconductor lasers. Using specially fabricated diodes, narrow bursts of light were detected immediately after the termination of the injection current pulse. The effect persists for a wide variation in the length of the current pulse, from less than 2 ns to several μs. The width of theQ-switched light pulse itself is less than 0.4 ns, this value being the resolution of our detection system. Its energy increases rapidly with the amplitude of the injection current. The occurrence of stimulated emission after the end of the injection pulse indicatesQ-switching due to a reduction of the internal absorption. This reduction allows those injected carriers that have not yet spontaneously recombined to produce the narrow burst of stimulated light. TheQ-switching is observed over a current amplitude range that is a very strong function of temperature. This range can be relatively large. One diode at 150°K showedQ-switching after current pulses from 1.2 to 5.0 amperes; for amplitudes greater than 5.0 amperes, normal stimulated emission occurred during the current pulse. As the temperature is increased, theQ-switched pulse is first observed near Tt, the so-called \"transition temperature\" where trapping effects first start to cause long delays between the application of the current pulse and the onset of stimulated emission. Therefore, it is believed that the same traps are involved in both the long delays and theQ-switching. The latter is observed only in diodes with low Ttvalues where the absorption due to traps accounts for a large proportion of the total losses of the laser. A model explaining these effects will be presented."
"The object is to identify and assess factors and mechanisms that control the conversion of electron-beam power into coherent light through excitation of a semiconductor laser cavity. First, we examine the question of pump power losses associated with electron backscattering and pair creation. It is shown that power retention and ionization yield reflect target characteristics (atomic number and bandgap energy) only. The external quantum efficiency, which is best expressed as a product of quantum yield, coherence ratio, and escape probability, involves two parameters: pumping ratio and output coupling. This leads to a straightforward optimization procedure. Heating effects are analyzed in terms of a differential quantum efficiency and are shown to degrade the saturation value of the efficiency by a factor roughly proportional to the pulse rise time, if adiabatic conditions hold. These considerations are illustrated using power-efficiency figures reported for CdS, CdTe, and GaAs lasers; it is demonstrated that the photon-loss coefficient of excited \"perfect\" CdS must be less than 1.5 cm-1, at 4.2°K."
"Microwave oscillations produced by continuously operating GaAs stripe geometry junction lasers are reported here for the first time. These oscillations have been measured both in the light output of the diodes and in the dc current applied to the laser connections. The frequency of the oscillation lies in the 0.5- to 3.0-GHz range and depends strongly on current and temperature. The frequency typically increases with increasing current at a rate of 15 to 20 MHz/mA and decreases with increasing temperature at 100 to 150 MHz/°K. Introduction of an external microwave signal locks the frequency of the oscillation and reduces the oscillation width from 10 MHz to the external signal width. The frequency of oscillation agrees with a theory of intensity fluctuations in lasers based on the rate equations."
"Observations of the light intensity of pulsed, GaAs injection lasers at room temperature have revealed a regular, damped spiking behavior. The lasers were made by diffusing Zn into ann-type substrate. A stripe contact permits the excitation of only a very narrow region of the junction. The spiking was most clearly observed with a rectangular current pulse of 50 ns in width and a 0.5-ns risetime. Because of the long delays inherent in these diodes, the laser light appears at the very end of the current pulse, as the threshold value of the current is crossed. With increased pumping, the emission starts at earlier times and extends to the end of the current pulse. Only three or four spikes can be seen clearly because of the fast damping. The decay time is of the order of 2 ns and the interval between the spikes is about 1 to 1.4 ns. The spiking theory advanced by Statz and Tang to explain the time behavior of ruby has been applied to GaAs lasers. The rate equations in this formulation are derived under the assumption that the standing-wave nature of the field in the cavity creates a spatially inhomogeneous inversion along the resonator. Numerical solutions to these equations have been obtained for the cases of one and three longitudinal modes. The approximations used are first, that the pump power is kept near threshold, second, that there is no diffusions of carriers, third, that the gain curve is Lorentzian in shape, and last, that the modes are located symmetrically with respect to the line center. The two parameters that are needed to solve the equations are the cavityQand the spontaneous recombination lifetime. Using the values available in the literature, good agreement has been found between theory and experiment."
"It has been demonstrated experimentally and theoretically from first principles that for semiconductor lasers the complex light-field amplitude obeys a Van der Pol equation with a noisy driving term. This noise source is mainly due to the fluctuations of the atomic dipole moments, while the population fluctuations do not strongly influence the noise properties of the light amplitude and phase. In laser junctions, however, the population fluctuations can, at least in principle, be measured via the current noise. Starting with the quantum mechanical Langevin equations for the operators of the light mode, the atomic dipole moments, and the population of an individualkstate, one can derive an equation of motion for total population of the conduction bandC. This equation can be split into a mean equation (rate equation) and an equation for the superimposed fluctuations. The rate equation is\\dot{\\bar{N}}_{C} = R_{P} - R_{SP} + \\bar{n}E_{VC} - (\\bar{n} + 1)E_{CV}, whereR_{P}, R_{SP}, are the rates of pump and spontaneous emission.E_CV(\\bar{n} + 1)is the emission rate into the separately treated laser mode,\\bar{n}E_{VC}is the corresponding absorption rate, and\\bar{n}is the mean number of photons in the laser mode. Because of fast electron-electron relaxation one has an electron gas with a fluctuating quasi-Fermi level rather than electrons with individually fluctuating population. The equation of the fluctuating Fermi level can be solved below and above threshold. One gets the following result:\\langle\\deltaN^{2}\\rangle = (T_{C}/2)(R_{P} + R_{SP} + (\\bar{n} + 1) E_{CV} + \\bar{n}E_{VC}) + k(\\bar{n}). Far below threshold this expression is reduced to\\langle\\deltaN^{2}\\rangle = (T_{C.0}/2)(R_{P} - R_{SP}), whereT_{C.0}^{-1} = (d/dN_{C})(R_{SP} - R_{P}). This result is known to be valid for degenerate semiconductors. The laser action shortens the relaxation time toT_{C}^{-1} = T_{C.0}^{-1} + (d/dN_{C}) (E_{CV} - E_{VC}). The transition rates due to the coherent light field contribute in the same way to the shot noise as the rates of pump and spontaneous emission,k(\\bar{n})is due to the light-field fluctuations. The main contribution is proportional to the intensity noise of the laser light; an additional contribution has its origin in the correlation between the fluctutions in light field and in population. Below threshold the photons are in a Bose distribution, i.e.,\\langle\\Deltan^{2}\\rangle = \\bar{n}(\\bar{n} + 1). Therefore below but near threshold the noise due to the laser photons increases quadratically and becomes constant above threshold, because the intensity noise of the light field itself becomes constant. The junction current noise spectrum at low frequencies is given byS_{I}(\\omega \\approx 0) = 2eI + 4e^{2}\\bar{n}E_{VC} + 4e^{2}/T_{C}\\cdot k(\\bar{n}). The first term, besides the usual shot noise2eI, appears because the noise is given by the sum of emission and absorption rates, while the currentIis given by the difference. The term due to the light-field fluctuations leads to an increase of the noise quadratically inInear threshold and it yields an approximately constant amount of noise above threshold."
"The resonant frequencies of a proposed laser model have been calculated and compared with high-resolution (0.1Å) spectral measurements. It is believed that for the first time a good agreement between theoretical and experimental results has been obtained for the frequency separation of transverse modes. The laser resonances are characterized by three mode numbers (m, n, q), wherem, nare transverse mode numbers in the directions perpendicular and along the junction plane, respectively, andqis the longitudinal mode number. The output spectrum usually shows a number of \"satellites\" located adjacent to each longitudinal (Fabry-Perot) resonance. The observation of Hermite-Gaussian modesH_{n},(\\xi)\\exp(-\\xi^{2}/2})along the junction plane has suggested that, for fixedmandq, each satellite may be associated with the mode numbersn = 1, 2,etc. This is supported by both theoretical and experimental results. The model includes the effects of a varying dielectric constant both perpendicular and along the junction plane. A parabolic profile of the dielectric constant is assumed along the junction plane as suggested by the presence of Hermite-Gaussian propagation. It is found from Maxwell's equations that the frequency separation between two modes (m, n, q) and (m, n, +1, q) is a function of the focusing given by the variation of the dielectric constant along the junction plane. More specifically, increased focusing is associated with larger frequency separations. A typical value for the amount of focusing was obtained by scanning a laser far field pattern along the junction plane. From this information the frequency separation calculated from the model was found to be of the order of 6.4 GHz (0.15 Å). This value includes the effects of dispersion and is in good agreement with frequency separations obtained experimentally from about 25 lasers that have been tested. This reproducibility, which has not been previously reported, is thought to be due to the use of diodes with stripe geometry metallic contacts."
"The techniques involved in phase locking large multi-element junction laser arrays will be described. Specific mention is given to external cavity coupling, laser uniformity, physical dimensions, and array configuration. As a result, it has been found that a far more ideal beam pattern can be obtained from large diffraction-limited diodes than from a linear array of small ones. A coupled five-element array of 25-mil-wide units operated at-30°C has emitted 19 watts of peak power in a set of common modes."
"Three types of noncatastrophic degradation have been observed during CW life tests of GaAs injection lasers at 77°K. First, when operated submerged in liquid nitrogen, a comparatively rapid decrease occurs in the power output. This effect appears to be due to the liquid nitrogen environment and is reversible. This phenomenon has not been observed to start until the laser is energized, which suggests that it is due to fine polarizable particles in the liquid nitrogen which are attracted to the junction region. Second, some lasers have been operated on a cold finger in vacuum at current levels less than three or four times threshold for as long as 1000 hours with no significant change in output. The power outputs under such conditions were\\sim\\frac{1}{3}watt. When the current was increased byeond three or four times threshold, however, the light output decreased\\sim\\frac{1}{2}in several hours, and this degradation was irreversible. Third, a cyclic variation in output occurs when a cold trap is not used; apparently this variation is due to an oil film being slowly deposited on the laser mirrors. This effect is not observed when precautions are taken to prevent the growth of the oil film."
"Experimental data are presented for multijunction GaAs lasers made by vapor-phase epitaxial growth in the form ofp-n-p-n-p-nstructures. The overall thickness of the four inside layers was 5 microns for the multilayer material for which experimental data are given. The diodes made from this material exhibited current-controlled negative-resistance characteristics. The emitted output beams of the multilayer lasers were extremely narrow, with the beam diverging only 0.5 degree in the direction transverse to the junction planes. The corresponding near-field patterns for these lasers have, in addition to the expected bright laser regions, almost fifty lines spaced about 1 micron apart and almost equally bright. The current thresholds at 77°K for the multijunction lasers are three to four times higher than single-junction laser thresholds and the incremental output quantum efficiencies of these lasers were more than unity, 1.1."
"A study has been made of the gradual degradation in the output of GaAs lasers at 300°K. The process of catastrophic degradation, which involves mechanical facet damage, has been previously described. The lasers investigated were fabricated by Nelson using the solution regrowth method. Typically, the lasers were 10 mils long and 5 mils wide and were not provided with reflective coatings. We have found that the degradation process is a bulk, rather than a surface, effect during which the near-field emission patterns decrease in uniformity. Except in rare cases, there is no external evidence of mechanical damage to the devices. This has been confirmed by scanning electron microscope observations of the facets before and after gradual degradation. Softening of the I-V characteristics occurs in addition to increases in the threshold current density and decreases in both the stimulated and spontaneous exterior differential efficiency. No evidence was found for significant changes in either the junction impurity profile or the optical emission spectra. From a detailed analysis of the change in the threshold currents and the efficiency, it is concluded that the internal quantum efficiency is gradually reduced during laser operation. This decrease may be the result of the formation of recombination centers in the recombination region. These centers may be similar to those introduced by high-energy (1 MeV) electron irradiation. We find that an irradiation flux of1.5 \\times 10^{16}electrons/cm2(resulting in the formation of an estimated density on the order of 1015defects/cm3) has a severe effect on laser performance, similar in many respects to that observed in gradual degradation: the emission pattern may become nonuniform, while the threshold current increases and the efficiency decreases. All this also occurs without any changes in the spectral energy distribution in the range investigated (1 to 1.5 eV) An evaluation of the factors affecting the gradual degradation rate indicates that it is primarily affected by the current density. The degradation rate is also influenced by the initial junction quality-lasers that initially exhibit highly nonuniform emission degrade faster than those that are relatively uniform. By limiting the device operation of a typical solution-grown laser to a current level between two and three times the threshold current, long-term (hundreds of hours) stable operation has been obtained at 300°K at repetition rates up to several kilohertz using a 100-ns pulse width."
"High-field domains passing throughn-type gallium arsenide pulsed above a critical field produce electron-hole pairs by impact ionization, resulting in emission of recombination radiation of band gap energy. Specimens have been made in a configuration that allows intense ionization to be produced at 78°K in material having initial electron densities of the order of5 \\times 10^{17}cm-3Above a certain threshold ionization density, stimulated emission occurs; the linewidth is of the order of 30 Å and emission is mainly within an angle of 7 degrees to the normal to the plane parallel polished faces of the specimen. The threshold current varies little with temperature up to 170°K and above this increases linearly. At currents above the threshold, the spectrum broadens somewhat; the output power is measured to be about 3 watts. The near-field pattern shows that lasing occurs over small separated areas that vary in location from pulse to pulse. Overall power efficiency of the device is low; if, however, only the lasing areas are considered, the efficiency comes much nearer to the theoretical maximum which, it is argued, is about 5 percent. Time dependence of the spectral distribution is complicated and evidence is given to show that carrier heating is an important phenomenon. The lasing process is similar to that occurring in a junction diode laser; some points of difference are discussed. The output frequently shows an unexplained strong polarization."
"The delay time between the application of a current pulse and the onset of coherent stimulated emission has been investigated for several of our diffused GaAs junction lasers from 77°K to above room temperature. A \"transition temperature\" Ttwas found for most diodes above which the delays are long (of the order 10-7seconds) in contrast to the 1- or 2-ns delay found below Tt. Four delay properties, reported here for the first time, were found from investigating the regions near Tt. 1) The location of Ttdepends on the originaln-type substrate material, the specific diffusion conditions, and subsequent heat treatments. 2) Transition regions for various diodes occur in the entire range fromT_{t} = 120\\degK to above 300°K. 3) An anomolous increase in threshold occurs at Tt. 4) The width of the transition region becomes narrower as Ttis lowered. These experimental results led us to postulate a new trapping center. For temperaturesT < T_{t}, the trap is in its initial state Tr1(nonabsorbing). WhenT \\simeq T_{t}, the trap can capture an electron to produce the Tr2state, which causes delays by introducing an optical absorption as proposed by Fenner. Using this model, qualitative explanations of the experimental data are given."
"A carrier lifetime measurement under lasing conditions using microwave techniques is reported. The direct modulation characteristic of a junction laser is analyzed, based on the rate equations, and a resonance-like phenomenon of the modulated output is calculated at a fixed frequency determined by the parameters of the junction diode. This frequency occurs just before the modulation cutoff frequency of the diode. The minority carrier lifetime in the active region of the junction laser is expressed in terms of this frequency and other parameters. A modulation experiment was performed using a microwave frequency modulated bias pulse current. The resonance-like phenomenon was confirmed experimentally and the carrier lifetime was determined from the analysis presented here."
"The delay between turn-on of current and onset of lasing was measured in a GaAs0.60P0.40injection laser as a function of current. The delay can be as long as 700 ns but decreases with overdrive. The trap density is estimated at 1019cm-3. A double-pulse experiment shows that the memory of the first pulse may persist for longer than a millisecond. A burst-of-pulses experiment indicates that the traps cannot be emptied optically by stimulated emission. A reverse bias was not able to empty the traps electrically."
"The high transparency of the passive portions of a thin platelet CdSe or Ga(AsP) semicondutor laser resonator, pumped over only part of its length by a Ga(AsP) junction laser, indicates by direct observation (visible-red) that the output photon energy is less than bandgap. Two possible explanations for this are suggested. This behavior makes possible operation of thin platelet lasers over very long path lengths, e.g., long zig-zag modes and ring modes."
"The efficiency and threshold of GaAs lasers can be affected by a delay occurring between the application of a current pulse and the laser output. The delays may be some tenths of a microsecond in certain diffused junction lasers when operated near room temperature, e.g., when the donor substrate dopant is selenium with a concentration of the order of 1018atoms per cm3. No such delays are observed in diodes in which the substrate dopant is silicon. In the case of selenium, the delay depends on the doping level, decreasing as the concentration increases. The delay is also very sensitive to injection current, decreasing rapidly with increasing current from its maximum at threshold. During the pulse, after lasing commences, the output continues to increase. A similar effect has also been observed with spontaneous emission. Operation of these devices below room temperature shows that the delay is also dependent on temperature. The delay decreases over a fairly narrow temperature range and in all cases is no longer observed ( < 20 n/s) below -70°C. These observations are explained by considering the effect of impurity trapping levels which may be associated with the (100) minimum."
"The total stimulated light power obtainable from GaAs injection lasers is optimized by varying reflection coefficient, laser length, and width. The laser performance is assumed to be limited by heating, and a given temperature rise is taken as a constant parameter of the optimization procedure. Two cases are considered: 1) operation with short pulses at low duty cycle, and 2) continuous operation. For both cases optimum reflection coefficients are obtained. Case 2) leads to optimum values for laser length and width, case 1) to favorable length values only."
"The effect of minority carrier lifetime on the impedance of the laser within a diffusion or a drift length from the junction is analyzed. Lifetime shorting due to stimulated recombination (which is a function of the injection current) is considered and the effect of cavity size on the ability to modulate the laser at high frequencies is pointed out."
"The development of high-power junction lasers has resulted in the development at many laboratories of laser structures which will enable devices to operate at high mean power or continuously at the highest possible temperature. However, little attention has been paid to the measurement of the thermal properties of the resulting structures. Although CW operation does not, in general, give the maximum mean power from a device, continuous operation at elevated temperatures is a convenient development aim and it is shown that this can be predicted on the basis of two conditions: 1)\\gammaI_{0}v\\theta/T_{0} < 0.15if joule heating is small, or 2)I_{0}^{2}R\\theta/T_{0} < 0.067if joule heating dominates the device dissipation, where I0threshold current at the ambient temperature T0Vjunction voltage 0 thermal impedance of the deviceReffective ohmic resistance of the device 1 - γ device quantum efficiency. Various methods of measuring the thermal impedance θ have been devised and are considered in detail. These methods involve observations of spectra or threshold under various operating conditions and give results which are in good mutual agreement. It is suggested that the thermal properties of a device can conveniently be described in terms of two figures of merit given byI_{0}V\\theta_{\\gamma}andI_{0}^{2}R\\theta."
"The temperature dependence of the spectrum, threshold current, and power output of compensated vapor-grown epitaxial GaAs lasers and incoherent emitters near room temperature is presented. It was found that an increase in temperature produced a narrowing of the spontaneous emission spectrum. This narrowing has been attributed to a movement of the Fermi level through an exponential density-of-states tail."
"This paper indicates both experimentally and graphically how the distribution of carriers changes above a critical temperature Tc, which is related to the density of states ρ in the band tails. Thus,kT_{c} = E_{0}, where\\rho = \\rho_{0} \\exp (\\DeltaE/E_{0}). The emission spectrum shifts with changing excitation (band filling) at lower temperatures (T < T_{c}) and stays at a constant value independent of excitation at higher temperatures (T > T_{c}). Experimental results of photoluminescence studies with GaAs crystals show that the quantity E0, obtained from the dependence of the peak energy upon the degree of excitation is the same as the quantitykT'_{c}, obtained from the dependence of the peak energy upon temperature. This is in agreements with the analysis. For lasing diodes, the threshold will increase steeply with increasing temperature above Tc, if the excited carriers are located mostly in the exponential states of the band tail.E_{0} = (10 \\sim 20)meV and Tc= (120 \\sim 250\\degK) are typical for crystals of heavily compensated GaAs."
"It is found that in GaAs1-xPxinjection lasers both the spontaneous emission efficiency η and the laser thresholdjvary exponentially with the temperatureT: \\eta = \\eta_{0} \\exp(-T/\\theta_{1})andj = j_{0} \\exp(T/\\theta_{2}). θ1and θ2are usually nearly equal and range between 50 and 110°K. The behavior of the external efficiency is correlated with the temperature dependence of the absorption along the propagation path of the radiation: as the temperature increases, the exponential absorption edge shifts to lower energies faster than the emission peak. The difference between the two shifts is nearly linear with temperature. The effect of self-absorption on external efficiency was tested by measuring the light emitted transversely to thep-njunction through a layer of constant thickness. With such a geometry, it is shown that the efficiency should vary as\\exp [-A \\exp (T/\\theta)]. The experiment agrees with this prediction."
"Experimental results are presented on the operational characteristics of GaAs laser amplifiers very closely coupled to a laser oscillator. The separation between the oscillator and the amplifier was varied from 0.2 to 2.0 microns. The amplifiers were made by lapping one end at an angle of 10 to 15 degrees. This angle is several times larger than the critical angle for confinement of radiation in GaAs lasers that is estimated from experimental data to be between 2 and 3 degrees. The measured signal gain is a decaying function of input power and approaches a value of 2 to 4 for large input signals. A maximum amplifier gain of about 150 was obtained for an input signal of 2 mW/mil junction width (corresponding to an optical flux-density of about 8 kW/cm2incident on the input side of the amplifier). At this input power level, the output fluoresence is reduced by about 50 percent and the internal oscillatory modes of the amplifier are almost completely quenched. The ratio of the oscillator output actually coupled into the amplifier to the measured output from the oscillator was estimated from gain saturation measurements. It was found to be inversely proportional to the cleaved separation between the oscillator and the amplifier and was estimated as 0.5 and 0.07 for separations of 0.2 and 2 microns, respectively. The output quantum efficiency of the laser amplifier was demonstrated to be comparable to the output quantum efficiency of a single oscillator. Tests of a new structure for a low-noise, constant-gain laser amplifier are described."
"The simplest electrical model of the injection laser assumes that the active layer, the layer in which spontaneous and stimulated radiative recombination take place, is a homogeneous layer. The only parameters of such an electrical model are the thickness of the active layer, and the electron and hole concentrations and quasi-Fermi levels. If such a model is combined with an optical model with nok-selection rule, one obtains reasonable agreement with experimental threshold current densities, particularly if energy band tails are taken into account. The theory, however, predicts a superlinear relation between gain constant and current density near room temperature, while the observed relation is linear. An alternative electrical model by Pikus assumes that the quasi-Fermi levels of electrons and holes are constant in the active layer. This model, when combined with an optical model having ak-selection rule, gives a strong superlinear dependence of gain on current and is therefore also in disagreement with experiment. A realistic electrical model of the injection laser requires a knowledge of the impurity concentration at each point and solution of the equations governing the motion of electrons and holes. We are carrying out such calculations, using a method of solution developed by J. W. Cooley and G. Hachtel. Preliminary results show that at room temperature the spontaneous emission rate and the stimulated emission rate may have substantially different spatial dependences. The calculations will give information about the effect of different impurity profiles on injection laser performance and on the effect of different current densities on the electron and hole distributions. A detailed account of this work Will be submitted for publication later."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of this periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"A technique is described for synthesizing electrooptic amplitude modulators having arbitrary modulation characteristics. The technique is an adaptation of the procedure of Ammann and Yarborough for synthesizing naturally birefringent networks. The desired amplitude-transmission versus applied-voltage functionK(\\upsilon)of the modulator is written as an exponential series containing a finite number of terms. The resulting modulator consists of a series of stages between an input and output polarizer, with each stage consisting of an electrooptic element and optical compensator. The induced birefringence of the electrooptic medium is assumed to be directly proportional to the applied modulating voltage υ. The question of howK(\\upsilon)should be chosen is also investigated. Two cases are considered: 1) an amplitude modulator to be used with an envelope detector, and 2) an amplitude modulator to be used with a square-law detector. For each case, the idealK(\\upsilon)and several methods of approximating it are given. It is found that the manner in whichK(\\upsilon)is chosen is of great importance. Best results were obtained when the term coefficients (the Ci) ofK(\\upsilon)were chosen to directly optimize the modulator property (or properties) deemed most important. Modulator designs corresponding to several usefulK(\\upsilon)are given in tabular form."
"It is demonstrated that the polarization of light which has been diffracted from shear ultrasonic waves is not, in general, perpendicular to that of the incident lights but depends on the relative orientation of light and sound polarizations and propagation directions. The polarization of light diffracted by longitudinal sound waves depends as well on the relative magnitudes of the photoelastic constants."
"A relatively simple method for obtaining the approximate temperature profile across a GaAs diode laser during a short, rectangular current pulse is described. The method, based on consideration of the thermal diffusion of an initially heated slab parallel to thep-njunction, allows the inclusion of the thickness and distribution of more than one heat source. Results are valid for short times up to a maximum corresponding to a thermal diffusion lengthL = \\sqrt{kt}, wherekis the thermal diffusivity, equal to the junction depth. Numerical results are given for GaAs diodes operated at room temperature and some of the assumptions are verified experimentally. Finally, the results are used to estimate the shape and duration of the light output pulse in terms of threshold and drive current."
"Solution-grown GaAsp-njunctions were formed simultaneously using three differently oriented wafers, namely, the"
"The threshold current density of an electron-beam pumped GaAs laser is sensitively dependent upon the profile of the electron beam. Minimum power threshold current density is obtained with the excitation far above threshold value at the center of the Fabry-Perot cavity and with vanishingly small values at the ends. Threshold current density is also dependent upon beam voltage. For voltages of the order of 30 kV, the peak of the distribution of minority carriers (including the effects of diffusion and surface recombination) is of the order of one diffusion length from the surface, suggesting that nonradiative surface recombination plays an important role. This has been confirmed by measurements on samples with a Schottky barrier. Threshold current density ofn-type GaAs at 77°K (40-mil Fabry-Perot cavity, 30-kV beam voltage) decreases from 0.69 A/cm2at4 \\times 10^{17}/cm3to 0.44 A/cm2at4 \\times 10^{18}/cm3. Power output over the same doping range peaks at about2 \\times 10^{18}/cm3with 20 watts obtained at an overall efficiency of 2.5 percent. Peak differential external quantum efficiency of the order of 30 percent occurs at about the same doping density. Using Hunsperger and Ballantyne's values of α, we deduce that the internal quantum efficiency may be as high as 90 percent."
"A pulsed electrical discharge through dimethylamine or a mixture of methane and ammonia at low pressure has produced stimulated emission at twenty-one wavelengths between 71 and 373 μm. Ten of the lines in the range 71 to 116 μm are new; some of the others are identical to those produced with the so-called cyanide laser. The radiation was analyzed with a spectroscopic system comprising a reflection grating monochromator, a Michelson interferometer, and two fast-response detectors operated at 4.2°K. The wavelengths of all the lines were measured to a few parts in 105. Accurate wavelengths are also reported for four new lines from a mixture of methane and15N-ammonia, and four lines from a mixture of deuterated methane and deuterated ammonia. Observations are described confirming that the presence of a hydrogen isotope is necessary for laser emission to occur. The wavelengths obtained for the 310-, 311-, 337-, and 373-μm lines agree closely with the assignment to HCN by Lide and Maki."
"Laser action is described for total internal reflection modes such that the far-field pattern is a circular ring surrounding the crystal in a plane perpendicular to the rectangular cavity faces. A number of recent experiments have shown that this far-field pattern can be observed in GaAs samples as well as in ZnO and CdS. Experiments are reported for single crystals at a temperature of 77°K pumped by a low-voltage electron beam using 100-ns low-duty cycle pulses. Photographs of the far-field pattern show a narrow line extending 360° around the axis of the crystal and having an angular width of 5 to 10°. Photographs of the near-field pattern indicate that the laser light is emitted in quadrants at the four corners of the rectangular cavity, combining at large distances to produce a 360° pattern. Experimental results on a number of CdS crystals of various thicknesses show that the voltage threshold for lasing (at constant current density) for the total internal reflection mode varies approximately as the 0.7 power of the crystal thickness. Losses from total internal reflection are negligible, and for CdS and ZnO platelets absorption losses are also so small that lasing can occur when the penetration depth of the electrons is only 1/40 of the total crystal thickness. Because of these low losses, lasing has been observed in ZnO and CdS at 2.5 keV and a current density of about 5 A/cm2for crystal platelets approximatley 2 microns thick. Since the penetration of a 2.5 keV electron is only about 500 Å, this indicates that surface losses in CdS and ZnO with as-grown surfaces are also small. A similar thickness dependence is reported for GaAs doped with1.5 \\times 10^{19}Zn atoms/cm3, but absorption losses appear to be higher. Thus a 2-micron-thick crystal of GaAs pumped with an electron beam of the same current density as above lases with a voltage threshold of 10 keV. The threshold voltages measured for ZnO, CdS, and GaAs are considerably lower than any previously reported for electron-beam pumped semiconductor lasers."
"A procedure for synthesizing electrooptic amplitude modulators of light has recently been given by the authors. In this correspondence, the results of experiments performed on a three-stage modulator whose configuration was derived using this synthesis procedure are reported."
"Two simultaneous laser pulses incident on a cell of potassium vapor at 350°C generate an intense (1-kW) beam of violet light at about 4000 Å. The incident pulses are a 2-MW ruby beam and a 300-kW ruby-generated Stokes beam nearly resonant with the potassium 4P3/2- 4S1/2transition. A simplified theory is presented which treats the problem as a four-wave parametric interaction, and accounts for such experimental details as the doublet stucture of the violet light and the fact that the components of the doublet have different intensities."
"The clamped electrooptic coefficient r11was measured at 1.15 microns for a selenium crystal grown from an aqueous sulfide solution. The value obtained forn_{1}^{3}r_{11}is8.9 \\times 10^{-11}m/V and, depending on the value used for n1, the value for r11ranges between 5.7 and3.2 \\times 10^{-12}m/V. These data indicate modulating efficiencies that may be more than double those calculated from earlier infrared measurements on selenium."
"The conditions under which an electromagnetic beam can produce its own dielectric waveguide and propagate without spreading are discussed for a model of the nonlinear dielectric response which includes the effects of saturation. The model assumes that the principal contribution to the nonlinear response arises from the reorientation of anisotropic molecules. For the lowest order \"modes,\" the variation of the field amplitude over the cross section of the beam for various total powers in the beam is presented graphically. It is also shown that, for \"cigar\"-type axially symmetric molecules, there are two trapped beams possible which have no nodes, but which have the same total power."
"Small-signal gain coefficients in a flowing amplifying mixture of CO2-N2-He were measured on 46 individual rotation-vibration transitions in thePandRbranches of the(00\\deg1)-(10\\deg0)band in CO2. The resulting gain distribution as a function ofJwas in agreement with a Boltzmann distribution of population among the rotational levels of each vibrational state. The physical parameters characterizing the CO2laser levels were found to be\\frac{N_{00\\deg1}}{N_{10\\deg0}} = 2.27; \\frac{N_{00\\deg1}}{N_{total}} \\geq 0.17;\\frac{N_{10\\deg0}}{N_{total}} \\geq 0.08; T = 340\\degK where Ntotalis the number of CO2molecules in the amplifying medium. The operating mixture was characterized by the following partial pressures and flow velocity: p(CO2) =0.65 torr; p(N2) =1.40 torr; p(He) =2.9 torr; v=192 cm/s."
"The results of experiments on obtaining holograms on photochromic organic films are presented. The composition that represents a solution of an organic dye is deposited on a glass plate to form a thin film. The thickness of the film is 20-30 μm. The basic limitation to the quality wavefront reconstruction images is accounted for by the noise generated by the granular structure of the recording medium. It became apparent especially for the small-size holograms. The holograms obtained on photochromic films are free from such noisz. A high quality of the reconstructed image is explained by the nongranular structure of photochromic material (the resolution cell is much smaller in comparison with the wavelength of light)."
"The self-consistent field approximation (SCFA)[1]-[4] is used to calculate the steady-state mode energies and frequency shifts for a gas laser. The SCFA is a statistical approximation which was shown[3] to be accurate for small values of a parameter (\\gamma^{2}N), which is always small for gas lasers. The SCFA is simpler and more convenient for studying the complicated dynamical effects that occur in gas lasers than the more recent[5]-[8] quantum theoretical models. It does not, of course, give any new description of the laser photon statistics, since the approximation treats the field as a pure coherent state[9] and is, therefore, equivalent to the semiclassical theory. The main results of this paper are to show how dynamical effects can be calculated nonperturbatively for arbitrary values of the field strength, and to analyze the different roles played by different kinds of inhomogeneous effects in gas lasers. These inhomogeneous effects are due to the dependence of the atomic inversion density on the atomic positions and velocities. Some numerical results are given which show that the nonperturbative theory can explain some effects not previously explained by perturbation theories. [1], [2]."
"A technique is described whereby CO2lasers can beQ-switched to provide high-frequency-output pulse repetition rates. The method is based on the use of a rotating transparent plate within the optical cavity of the laser to vary the optical path length between the mirrors. Measurements show that with an NaCl plate, pulse repetition rates in excess of 200 kHz can be achieved. Pulse widths are typically a few hundred nanoseconds. Maximum repetition rates and peak power output depend on the specific discharge parameters."
"More efficient pumping and fluorescence collection, plus restricted infrared bandwidth, have enabled us to obtain a noise equivalent power (NEP) of3\\times10^{-9}watts(Hz)^{\\frac-{1}{2}}for the 4.2°K Pr3+:LaCl3infrared quantum counter (IRQC) as a narrow-band detector of 2.03-micron radition. This is approximately a four order of magnitude improvement over the most recently reported NEP in this material. The significant role of the lattice is demonstrated in a comparison of Pr3+IRQC action in the LaCl3and LaF3hosts. The inferiority of the latter is explained in terms of nonradiative quenching of the infrared levels, using recently published data on multiphonon emission rates. The dominant source of noise in the present device is described, and prospects for further sensitivity improvement are discussed."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of this periodical."
"The role of xenon as a gas additive in sealed-off CO2-N2-He and CO2-He lasers has been investigated. Maximum Output power and maximum efficiency are increased by about 25 percent and 15 percent, respectively. The operating conditions of the lasers shift to higher currents with an accompanying 20 to 25 percent decrease in discharge voltage. An operating life of 2800 hours has been demonstrated by a sealed-off CO2-Xe-He-laser. Comparative measurements have been made of the electron temperature and electron density in CO2-N2- He and CO2-Xe-He laser discharges. With gas pressures and current adjusted for optimum laser performance, CO2-Xe-He discharge is characterized by a higher (∼45 percent) electron density."
"Two results, obtained by different methods, are given for the nonlinear interaction of two electromagnetic waves of different polarizations in a population inverted medium. In the first and rigorous approach, the degeneracy of the levels is taken into account. The second method, used previously by other authors for similar calculations, involves the use of nondegenerate levels and averaging over an assumed continuous distribution of dipole orientations. By comparing the two results, the validity and physical significance of the second \"classical\" method is investigated. It is found that, in general, this approach gives incorrect results. However, it corresponds physically to and is valid for the case of\\DeltaJ=OandJlarge. In addition, it gives correct results for parallel polarizations of the fields and anyJvalues."
"An optical communication system based on the polarization characteristics of a single laser source is proposed. The return path is produced through mirror reflection and the mutual interference of each modulation signal transmitted between the two stations is eliminated by choosing the relative axial relations among the modulator crystals and the optical components contained in the system. The results were confirmed by telephone call experiments using ADP Pockels modulators. It was found that no mixing of signals occurred if we took the axial relations among the optical components and the modulator crystal as predicted by the theoretical results."
"A method is proposed for compensating for the grown-in nonuniform birefringence common in plates or prisms of cubic electrooptic crystals, e.g., K(Ta, Nb)O3or CuCl. The method involves holography with two reference beams of orthogonal polarizations. In the reconstruction stage similar beams are used to generate a \"real image\" beam which is passed back through the crystal. In this way a uniformly polarized wavefront can be derived from the strained crystal. Phase modulation by the electrooptic effect can be achieved without destroying wavefront perfection, if the field is applied in such a direction that it would, in a perfect crystal, produce an optic axis coinciding with the light propagation direction used. Applications to electrooptic modulators and beam deflectors are considered."
"The equations ofQswitching are reexamined for a homogeneously broadened two-level material. It is shown that inertial effects in the material polarizability may play an important role inQswitching of lasers of narrow material linewidth. It is further shown that it is possible to amplify pulses of durations shorter than the inverse linewidth of the active material, provided the pulses are energetic enough to produce appreciable nonlinear behavior of the material. In this way it should be possible to produce, from a relatively long pulse, pulses of duration short compared to the inverse linewidth of the amplifying material. Numerical examples are given based on numbers pertinent to the CO2laser. Even though the model of a homogeneously broadened two-level system is an oversimplification of CO2laser operation, it is believed that guidelines for future work on CO2systems can be gleaned from these results."
"Three 7-μm lines have been measured in the water vapor laser spectrum. The lines are assigned as2\\nu_{2}-\\nu_{2}transitions in the H2O molecule."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"A scheme, similar to one used in the chirp radar, is proposed to compress in time, without loss of energy, the light pulse generated by a mode-locked laser. On the basis of preliminary experimental results obtained with a mode-locked He-Ne laser and a LiNbO3phase modulator, it is predicted that compression of 50-ps pulses derived from a Nd:YAG laser to 0.4 ps or less is feasible."
"The arc emission spectra of two identical high-pressure dc capillary lamps (one with 2 atmospheres xenon, one with 2 atmospheres krypton) are measured and compared. The total efficiency, as measured by a thermopile, approaches 55 percent for xenon as compared to 35 percent for krypton. The presence in the krypton spectrum of strong lines in the infrared proximate to the absorption bands of neodymium lasers accounts for such arcs being more efficient pump sources in such applications."
"This bibliography, compiled during the period from July 1967 through December 1967, contains 254 references which are divided into 17 subject categories and listed chronologically. Brief annotations are added to many references. An index of 412 authors is included."
"The exact solution describing steady-state resonant pulse propagation in a two-level inverted medium is given. This steady-state pulse is often referred to as a 180° or π-pulse. No approximation of a slowly varying envelope is made, and hence the solution satisfies the second-order wave equation as well as the equations of motion of the density matrix of the system. As a result the theory is able to describe very short pulses, whose width can be of the order of the period of the optical carrier. The model for the system includes a nonresonant loss and a finite value of the transverse relaxation time T2, but neglects dispersion in the host medium. The steady-state pulse is found to be frequency modulated and asymmetric in shape."
"This paper describes a family of sealed-off, single-frequency, TEM00q-mode CO2lasers with output powers up to 15 watts. Short-term frequency stability[1],[2] measurements of the beat note of two free-running lasers in typical laboratory setups are discussed thereafter. The preliminary measurements indicate a short-term stability of about 5 parts in 1012for an observation time of 0.05 seconds, and about 5 parts in 1013, disregarding the discrete spectral lines resulting from 60-Hz modulation by power supply ripple. One or two orders-of-magnitude improvement is predicted, leading to the possibility of measuring the linewidth limit imposed by quantum noise."
"Anti-Stokes emission in sharply defined cones has been observed from fine filaments in a mixture of acetone with 5 to 10 percent CS2. The cone angle is in agreement with the momentum-matching condition that the longitudinal but not the transverse components sum to zero."
"Laser action during the active discharge at λ's 5454 and 5641, and during the late afterglow at λ's 5936, 6246, and 7039 in a high current pulsed discharge containing tellurium vapor and neon is reported. The afterglow transitions belong to the spectrum of TeII, but the assignment of the active discharge lines is uncertain."
"The electron beam scanlaser (EBS) is a device in which a modified electrooptic light valve is used as a mode selector in the highly degenerate flat-field conjugate laser resonator to provide a scanning light spot. This paper describes improvements in the mode selection portion of the EBS which make the device far more promising. In particular, 1) the charge storage time is now under control, and can be as short as needed, 2) the KDP is protected from the electron beam, 3) the electron gun is protected from the KDP, 4) provision can be made for the needed high-quality optical surfaces in the mode selector, and 5) the transparent conducting coating on the mode selector's KDP crystal has been removed, indicating that the insertion loss of the mode selector can be reduced to less than 1.5 percent."
"Stimulated Raman scattering (SRS) from high-pressure H2gas was observed when giant-pulse ruby-laser radiation of frequency\\tilde{\\nu}_{0} = 14 398cm-1, and its second harmonic of frequency2\\tilde{\\nu}_{0}, were simultaneously focussed on the sample. The well-known SRS from H2was observed when only the radiation of frequency\\tilde{\\nu}_{0}was focussed on the sample. When only the second harmonic power was focussed on the sample, SRS was not observed, and power measurements showed that the threshold in this case was considerably higher than the power available. An SRS spectrum identical to that which would be produced by the second harmonic radiation, that is, the appearance of components at the frequencies2\\tilde{\\nu}_{0} + n\\tilde{\\nu}(Q_{1}), where\\tilde{\\nu}(Q_{1}) = 4155cm-1andn = 0, \\pm 1, \\pm 2..., was observed when both the fundamental and the second harmonic laser power were simultaneously focussed on the sample. Whenever the SRS threshold for the fundamental component was reached, the SRS of the second harmonic occurred at excitation powers estimated to be two orders of magnitude below the normal threshold power. These results and others previously reported on the generation of SRS vibration-rotation combination lines in H2are discussed, and the multiple-photon resonant interaction mechanisms based on the classical or semiclassical theory of molecular motions and light modulation are proposed for the generation of the observed lines."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of this periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"Results are reported on a passiveQ-switched ruby laser utilizing a special rooftop prism cavity. With a 40 cm long resonator, a single transverse and longitudinal mode has been obtained. With a 3 meter long resonator, a single transverse mode self-locked beam has been obtained."
"Irradiating a GaAs0.60P0.40laser with radiation from a GaAs laser demonstrates conclusively that the delay-inducing traps are deep centers which act as saturable absorbers. These centers can be filled optically and then remain in the nonabsorbing state for milliseconds. Their concentration is greater than1 \\times 10^{17}cm-3."
"Laser action at a wavelength of 4326 Å has been observed in the organic liquid 9, 10 diphenylanthracene when pumped with the second harmonic of a ruby laser."
"The possibility of phase locking the transverse modes of a laser is considered. It is shown that if a transverse mode set having a Poisson intensity distribution can be phase locked, a scanning laser beam can be produced."
"It has been shown experimentally that xenon filled flashtubes are more efficient for pumping Nd3+doped YAG lasers than krypton flashtubes in spite of the higher output of the krypton flashtube at 0.810 microns."
"Two classes of special EO prism configurations for light beam deflection are proposed. Simple formulas expressing resolvable spots NRand deflection angle φ in terms of the induced optical path difference between the two boundary rays of a parallel beam traversing the prisms are derived and are used to compare the relative merits of the special prism configurations. Design formulas for prisms in tandem are laid down. As examples, design curves for KD*P and LiNbO3deflectors using focused laser beams at room temperature are plotted. Some problems related to two-dimensional deflection are discussed."
"Forced and spontaneous phase locking of the transverse modes of a He-Ne laser have been observed in the form of a scanning fundamental beam. Scans of about four resolvable spots were obtained by locking approximately seven modes with a tilting mirror modulator. With careful alignment of the laser, spontaneous locking of the scanning beam type was also observed."
"A 6328-Å He-Ne laser operating in the fundamental transverse mode may be switched to second order mode operation by injection of a small second order mode signal. Experiments are reported and results compared with theory."
"The absoluteR-line quantum efficiency of ruby has been measured using a method that also obtains the spatial distribution of fluorescence from the sample. This measurement furnishes additional experimental verification of the value deduced from Maiman's work by Burns and Nathan."
"The output power of pulsed noble gas ion lasers is discussed in terms of dependence on gain, plasma tube length, current density, and excitation mechanisms. Experimental data for some of the strong laser transitions of singly ionized argon in pulsed operation are presented. The resulting power output dependence on current density suggests that two-step excitation plays an important role, particularly in the population of the lower laser levels. This point of view is consistent with observation of ring formation in the output beam cross section, and of the output power dependence on the\\frac{3}{2}power of the plasma tube diameter."
"A set of cavity modes which are coupled together by an externally synchronous driven loss modulator is considered. The nonlinear polarization of the material is taken into account, and the mode coupling for the case when many modes are coupled together is treated nearly exactly. The formulas for the pulse shape and pulse width are explicitly derived for the case of a homogeneously broadened line. They show the dependence of these quantities on the system's parameters, such as pump power, modulator driving strength, detuning between modulator frequency, frequency spacing of the cavity modes, etc. Several configurations for the locked modes which have higher pulse widths are possible. This last result in particular seems to be completely new."
"The algebraic identity(ab)^{-1} = (b \\pm a)^{-1}(a^{-1} \\pm b^{-1})is used to reduce the average over thermal velocities of a product of Lorentzian line shapes to a product of Lorentzian line shapes which do not depend on velocity and a sum of plasma dispersion Z-functions. Scaling is used to cancel the velocity-dependent terms in(b \\pm a).(abc... )^{-1}may be reduced by systematic application of the above identity and tedious integrations can be replaced by algebraic procedures."
"Light-field-induced saturation peaks in the Ne2p_{4}velocity distribution inside a 0.63-μ He-Ne gas laser are investigated by measuring the resultant frequency-dependent single-pass gain reduction of an additional 1.15-μ He-Ne laser beam."
"A novel computational method is used to calculate the modes of an optical resonator. The method is a computer simulation of the physical experiment of exciting a resonator externally and adjusting its length to resonate the various modes; the output at each resonance is purified by means of mode filters consisting of suitably adjusted resonators in tandem. The method is powerful and useful, and is applicable to resonators of arbitrary configuration. Calculated results for a Fabry-Perot resonator with a Fresnel number of ten are presented."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of this periodical."
"Since the fields inside a laser cavity are much higher than the external fields, an analysis of a parametric oscillator with the nonlinear crystal internal to the laser is performed. Using self-consistency equations as the starting point, the equations of motion of such an oscillator are derived. Depending on various cavity, pumping, and nonlinearity parameters, these lead to several types of oscillation with distinctly different operating characteristics: (1) efficient parametric oscillation similar to that of previous analyses; (2) inefficient parametric oscillation resulting from the fact that the nonlinear interaction drives the phases rather than the amplitudes of the signal, idler, and pump; and (3) a pulsing output from the oscillator with repetitive pulses of the signal and idler. A stability analysis of these various regions shows that they are mutually exclusive and can be experimentally chosen by changing the laser gain, the oscillator output coupling, or the strength of the nonlinear interaction. It is shown that the internal oscillator efficiency rapidly approaches the Manley-Rowe limit, as the available pump power becomes several times greater than that required for threshold. The efficiency of an external oscillator having a triply resonant optical cavity is found to be generally less than that of the corresponding internal oscillator."
"A laser-triggered spark gap using a liquid dielectric has been investigated. A parametric study has been performed relating the delay and jitter characteristics of the switch to the laser parameters. Delay times of less than 30 ns were observed with apparent subnanosecend jitter times."
"Using a dispersive prism, the room temperature YAlG : Nd laser has been made to oscillate CW on a total of seven4F_{3/2} \\rightarrow4I_{11/2}transitions ranging in wavelength from 1.0519 μm to 1.1226 μm and a single4F_{3/2} \\rightarrow4I_{13/2}transition at 1.319 μm."
"The current noise of GaAs laser diodes in the luminescence mode has been measured at frequencies between 0.47 kHz and 1.5 MHz. A1/fbehavior is found at relatively lower frequencies. In the investigated frequency range, the noise level is considerably higher than2\\cdote\\cdotI\\cdot\\Deltaf."
"The static and dynamic behavior of a single-mode 4-level solid-state laser has been studied both theoretically and experimentally. In the theoretical section, the usual rate equations are modified in order to take into account the spatial variation of the inverted population due to the cavity field. These theoretical results have been verified with the help of a CW Nd-YAG laser. The experimental results on the output power and on the transient behavior are in good agreement with the theory within the accuracy of the experimental results (∼ 15 percent)."
"An optical frequency shifter making use of the electro-optic effect in LiNbO3was built to shift the Fourier spectrum of a mode-locked He-Ne laser; the shift was continuously adjustable from -45 GHz to +45 GHz about the central optical frequency of 473.61 THz. Shifted Fourier spectra recorded with a scanning Fabry-Perot interferometer were found to be in excellent agreement with theory."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of this periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"A technique for obtaining high-power single-frequency output from a long ring laser is described and demonstrated. A double feedback system is discussed, which stabilizes the laser frequency with respect to the center of the atomic gain curve. Experiments are reported which demonstrate the existence of a narrow atomic-line-center discriminant. The extension of this technique to dc-excited ion lasers is discussed."
"The theory of an optical pulse generator, consisting of a solid-state laser with a saturable absorber at one end of the cavity, is considered in some detail. Equations are obtained using third-order perturbation theory for the nonlinear medium and Maxwell's equations for the cavity which describe the behavior of the absorber in bringing the modes into phase alignment. Using simplifying assumptions, it is shown that short pulses are a solution of these equations and that they are a stable solution, provided that the dye fluorescence decay time is sufficiently short. We discuss the ability of the device to mode-lock when opposed by dispersion within the cavity. Computer solutions of the full equations for nine coupled modes are obtained, which demonstrate the development of the pulse in real time, and show the effects of cavity dispersion and long dye fluorescence decay time. A suggestion for a shaped-pulse generator is presented. The limitations of this theory, the most stringent of which being the restriction to the regime of validity of perturbation theory, are discussed."
"Considerable power broadening of Ne2p_{4}saturation peaks in a 0.63-μ He-Ne laser is observed by tuned laser differential spectrometry. The results are in agreement with calculations that properly distinguish broadening and quenching collisions."
"The optimum coupling for intracavity second harmonic generation has been theoretically studied. It has been shown that, both for a four- and three-level laser, one can get as much power at the second harmonic wavelength as that which can be obtained at the laser wavelength. It is also shown that, for both cases, an optimum value forlw/w_{0}exists, wherelis the nonlinear crystal length, andwand w0are the spot sizes of the laser beam, respectively, in the laser material and in the nonlinear crystal."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of this periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"In this paper some of the experimental considerations for obtaining phonon attenuation in solids by Brillouin scattering are described. Measurements of room temperature damping of longitudinal hypersonic waves in α-quartz, fused silica, and calcium fluoride are reported. The observed phonon frequency and linewidth for backward scattering of 6328-Å light in these solids is typically ∼ 30 GHz and ∼ 30 MHz (FWHM), respectively. This corresponds to a damping length of\\sim 60 \\mu, which is inaccessible by conventional ultrasonics techniques."
"Solutions are obtained for a steady-state electromagnetic shock in a nonlinear Kerr liquid. The equations for the liquid are those of De Martini et al. [1]. It is found that a shock solution can always be found regardless of the magnitude of the nonlinear parameter relating the change of propagation velocity to the energy density. Every shock is described completely, for a given material, in terms of two parameters; e.g., the energy density on one side of the shock and the speed of the shock."
"The performance of an electroopticQswitch using lithium niobate as the electrooptic material is described and compared with that of a conventional device using potassium di-deuterium phosphate."
"The frequency mixing of infrared signals with visible laser light in nonlinear crystals (here referred to as up-conversion) has been suggested as a possible means of detecting infrared signals by use of sensitive and fast visible wavelength detectors. Preliminary experiments are reported of the up-conversion of the CW 10.6 μ CO2laser by phase-matched difference mixing in HgS with the CW 0.6328 μ, He-Ne laser to produce 0.6729 μ which is detected with anS-20 photomultiplier. Reasonable agreement with theory is obtained. No additional sources of noise due to up-conversion were observed, although the actual performance was limited by pump fluctuations. No attempt was made to produce a practical device competitive with existing photoconductive detectors. In principle this is possible but would require various improvements, which are outlined. As a preliminary to the above experiment we report the measurement of the nonlinear coefficientd_{11}= (1.2 \\pm 0.4) \\times 10^{-7}ESU in HgS for second harmonic generation (SHG) of the 10.6 μ laser to produce 5.3 μ."
"The classical time-energy definition of passivity is employed to generate workable passivity criteria for lumped networks which are characterizable by standard form state equations. In general, the demonstration of passivity entails the construction of a Liapunov-type function of the phase. Moreover, in the case of linear (time-variable) networks explicit stability conditions emerge."
"In this paper, bounds on the number of port terminals for families of equivalentn-port networks are discussed. Classes ofn-ports, for which no equivalents with less than2n-1terminals exist, are demonstrated. It is shown that upper bounds (less than2n) on the number of terminals also exist. These may not exceed, in certain cases, even the minimum number ofn + 1terminals. Finally, some incomplete results on related problems are presented."
"Some topological features of a tree graph are investigated. The results provide the decomposition of a tree graph into complete subgraphs. As an immediate consequence of the decomposition, two procedures for generating a Hamilton circuit in a tree graph are presented."
"A method presented by Lempel and Cederbaum to find minimum feedback arc and vertex sets in directed graphs is shown to be partly equivalent to the well-known prime implicant problem of switching theory."
"The frequency response of a digital filter realized by a finite word-length machine deviates from that which would have been obtained with an infinite word-length machine. An \"ideal\" or \"errorless\" filter is defined as a realization of the required pulse transfer function by an infinite word-length machine. This paper shows that quantization of a digital filter's coefficients in an actual realization can be represented by a \"stray\" transfer function in parallel with the corresponding ideal filter. Also, by making certain statistical assumptions, the statistically expected mean-square difference between the real frequency responses of the actual and ideal filters can be readily evaluated by one short computer program for all widths of quantization. Furthermore, the same computations may be used to evaluate the rms value of output noise due to data quantization and multiplicative rounding errors. Experimental measurements verify the analysis in a practical case. The application of the results to the design of the digital filters is also considered."
"The properties of a class of2n-node networks, calledK-networks, are discussed. The characteristic of aK-network is that when any one of its ports is connected to a voltage source keeping all the other ports short circuited, then all the short-circuited ports are at the same potential. The2n-node network with a pair of equal conductances joining any two ports, as obtained by the presently known procedure for the realization of a dominant conductance matrix, is shown to be a special structure belonging to this general class. It is shown that the realization of a real dominant matrix as the short-circuit conductance matrixYof ann-port network can be convenientlycarried out usingK-networks. Further, the \"modified cut-set matrix\" of aK-network is of a special form, independent of edge conductances. This property can be made use of in generating a range of equivalent2n-noden-port networks for a givenY. Examples illustrating the realization procedures are included."
"An extension of the well-knownz-plane approximation method to produce desired real and/or complex conjugate reflection zeros is discussed. The results obtained are identical to those of Watanabe's."
"It was shown previously [1],[2] by one of the authors that the positive real property of rational positive real functions representing two-element kind networks remains invariant under simultaneous differentiation of the numerator and denominator. Some time back, it was shown by Talbot[3] that the result holds for any positive real function. (In fact, Talbot showed that the result holds for all positive but not necessarily real functions.) In this correspondence, by using an artifice due to Brune, it will be shown that the invariance of the positive real property under the above-mentioned operation can be extended to rational positive real matrices (open circuit impedance and short-circuit admittance), whose elements have only common poles. These results are used to arrive at a set of ordered inequalities which serve as a set of necessary conditions for two-element kind realizability. A set of necessary conditions to determine the positive real nature of the type of matrices mentioned is derived."
"Recent proofs concerning the stability properties of the negative immittance converter are discussed, and it is shown that a convertor having ports which are stable both on open circuit and on short circuit could be constructed."
"It is shown that if the capacitance of any distributedRCnetwork, uniform or tapered, is suitably divided between two or more conductors, rational admittances are obtained. The possible pole positions of the rational functions are shown to be the zeros of the driving point impedance of the \"prototype\" network from which the divided conductor network is derived."
"We consider the problem of minimizing a sum of vertex potentials of a finite directed graph for which 1) there is a directed path from a base vertex to every other vertex, 2) each arc is assigned a minimum rise potential constraint, and 3) Kirchoff's voltage law is satisfied. It is pointed out that a solution exists if and only if the sum of the minimum rise potential constraints about every cycle is nonpositive; and if a solution exists, an optimum is obtained by setting the potential at every vertex equal to the maximum sum of minimum rises taken over all paths to the vertex. Thus, the solution is easily obtained by finding a maximum distance tree. The intuitive simplicity of the result together with several ready physical applications make it seem worth mentioning."
"Positive real functionsandmatrices of several variables arose in the problem of synthesizing a passive network composed of lumped elements with variable parameters. The importance of these functions and matrices has recently been emphasized by the considerable attention concerning their application to the problem of synthesizing passive networks composed of noncommensurable transmission lines and lumped elements. The problem of synthesizing positive real functions and matrices of several variables has been discussed by several authors. However, the problem has not been solved generally, except for the two-variable lossless case and the case where a two-variable positive real function is prescribed as a bilinear function with respect to one of the two variables. In this paper, a general solution to the above synthesis problem is presented. It is shown that an arbitrarily prescribedn \\times npositive real matrix, symmetric or nonsymmetric, of several variables is realizable as the impedance or admittance matrix of a finite passive multivariablen-port. It is further shown that, if the matrix is symmetric, then it is realizable as a bilateral passiven-port. Related problems and discussions are also given."
"Active-RCcircuits containing an NIC are unstable unless the NIC has the correct orientation. Most active-RCsynthesis procedures assume an ideal NIC with no dynamics, and so, in practice, the correct orientation is often found by trial. It is shown that the correct orientation can easily be predicted theoretically."
"The effects of amplifier imperfections on the sensitivity performance of a complex-conjugate pole-pair realized using a gyrator circuit is critically examined. Sufficient data are presented to enable the sensitivity performance of this type of system to be calculated rapidly with a fair degree of precision. In particular, it is shown that if the sensitivities are to be comparable with those of an ideal gyrator, the bandwidth of the gyrator amplifiers needs to be greater than5 \\omega_{0} Q."
"A method of generating all complete trees of a pair of linear graphs representing an active network is given. This method is a repetition of two processes, one of which is to obtain a complete tree and the other is to generate all possible complete trees of distance one from the complete tree that is obtained by the first process. These two processes are easily carried out by the use of computers, and there will be no duplications in the generated complete trees. Furthermore, complete trees are generated by sets of complete trees classified by edges in initial complete tree to. Thus, it will be easy to factorize the result according to the weights of these edges."
"Sufficient conditions are given for an interpolation filter to have an impulse response that vanishes outside a finite interval of the time axis, that is to have a finite memory. These conditions are that the transfer function be of the formG(s)/G(z), whereG(s)is proper, rational, and has poles limited to the strip|Im s| < \\pi; and where1/G(z)is a polynomial. The filtersR_{mp}are included in this class, and these are characterized by the fact that their effect is to interpolate an(m + p - 1)-order polynomial in each interval throughppast andmfuture points. The interpolation filters described can be used to derive digital filters that approximate an arbitrary linear timeinvariant continuous-time operator. It is shown that in the case of integration, theR_{mp}filters lead to well-known Lagrangian integration formulas."
"The nonlinear theory of a class of transistor oscillators linear differential equation of the form is developed, using the Ebers-Moll large-signal model for the transistors. Simplified versions of tuned-collector, tuned-base, and Hart ley transistor oscillators are shown to be characterized by a nonlinear differential equation of the form\\ddot{x} - \\mu[e^{a \\dot{x}} - \\kappa e^{(a+b)\\dot{x}}] + \\gamma \\dot{x} + x = 0where\\mu, \\kappa, \\gamma, a, andbare positive constants and\\kappa\\ll 1. Approximate solutions of the above equation, which are derived in a very simple manner using the phase plane approach, are compared favorably with experimental results. A push-pull version of the tunedcollector oscillator characterized by the above equation with the exponential terms replaced by hyperbolic sines is discussed."
"This paper deals with the transformerless synthesis of reactive immittance matrices that are compact and whose elements are of degree four or less. In reference to the well-known necessary condition for transformerless networks, it is shown that there exist transformerless equivalent networks for the Darlington section, the cascade of two Brune sections with attenuation poles on the real and imaginary axes, and the cascade of two Brune sections with attenuation poles on the imaginary axis. These results are applied to transformerless one-port synthesis."
"Since the concept of multivariable positive real functions was introduced, the synthesis of these functions and matrices, concerning passive networks composed of lumped elements and of lumped and transmission-line elements, has been one of the most interesting problems in the field of circuit theory. This paper considers the synthesis of cascaded transmission-line networks of noncommensurate unit elements with the following structures: 1) a cascade connection ofmtransmission linesN_{i} (i= 1, 2, \\cdots ,m)in a prescribed order, eachN_{i}being a transmission line with open-ended stubs, composed of unit elements of a single variablep_{i}; 2) a transmission line with open-ended stubs composed of unit elements ofP_{2}, connected in cascade between two transmission lines composed of unit elements ofp_{1}; 3) a cascade connection ofmtransmission linesN_{i} (i = 1, 2, \\cdots ,m)in an arbitrary order, eachN_{i}being a transmission line composed of unit elements ofp_{i}; and 4) a transmission line composed of commensurate unit elements with open-ended stubs, partitioned from a multivariable network."
"The overall voltage gain function of a distributed amplifier using standard constant-kLClow-pass filter sections, with an extra section being inserted anywhere along the plate line, is given. It is shown that if the losses due to valve input conductance are small, then it is possible to maintain the gain constant to within\\pm 0.24 dBover 90 percent of the passband."
"Definitions and realizations of inductive and capacitive gyrators are presented. It is shown that an ideal inductive gyrator may be composed of four voltage-controlled current sources and two capacitors; while an ideal capacitive gyrator may be composed of two voltage-controlled voltage sources, two current-controlled current sources, and two capacitors. Transistors may be used as controlled sources. The lack of inductors makes possible the integration of these gyrator circuits."
"This correspondence applies the theory of complex variables to the investigation of distributedRCnetworks. To further understand the basic properties of distributedRC (\\overline{RC})networks, four theorems have been constructed. Only driving-point impedances are considered at this time. Following this, the schlicht nature of the driving-point functions is considered to derive more information concerning their character."
"The synthesis procedure presented is a cascade connection of passiveRCzero sections. The realized network is amaximum gain structure and contains no more elements for the synthesis of a fourth-order transfer than twice the number required for a secondorder network. The whole circuit is grounded and realized a voltage transfer ratio."
"A strictly energy-absorbing real linear time-invariant one-port network characterized by an impedance functionZ(p)is optimally matched by a real linear time-invariant one-port network characterized by an impedance functionZ(-p).Z(-p)is not realizable in general, but it is the key to the entire study of matching since it dictates fundamental limitations on matching network behavior and a sequence of approximating matching network structures. The problem is formulated in the time domain, but practical realizations are obtained at the final step by means of passive approximation in the frequency domain. Most of the steps to solution of a specific problem may be carried out virtually by inspection."
"This paper disproves Darlington's conjecture that everyRC-grounded two-port is equivalent to a series-parallel two-port. The proof depends upon the construction of a counterexample. This counterexample is a six-nodeRC-grounded two-port, whose admittance functionsY_{11} = N_{11}/D, -Y_{12} = N_{12}/D, Y_{22} = N_{22}/D,written without common factors, have compact poles at the zeros ofDand for whichN_{12}has a negative coefficient. In accordance with properties ofRCseries-parallel networks derived in an earlier paper, the network of the counterexample cannot be equivalent to anyRCseries-parallel two-port."
"A simple method of evaluating the chain matix ofn- cascaded networks is presented. For this purpose, a new graph, called theA-graph, is defined. It is also shown that theB, C,andDparameters of the overalla-matrix may be written by a knowledge of theA-parameter, which is obtained through theA-graph. Applications of theA-graph in matrix multiplication and in obtaining the even and odd parts of a product of polynomials are suggested."
"The comentor notes that Dr. Fialkow has solved a difficult problem in disproving the so-called series-parallel conjecture, which he published some twelve years ago. He is not particularly surprised that the conjecture turns out to be false. However, he is surprised that Dr. Fialkow’s counterexample has the following combination of particular characteristics: Y11 = Y22, compact residues, negative residues at both finite poles of Y12."
"A method of oscillator design that maximizes the output power is presented. The embedding network is derived from a set of four linear algebraic equations. The method is applicable to the class of nonlinear elements whose single frequency largesignal parameters depend on a single port voltage."
"Two simple sensitivity invariants are derived for continously equivalent networks. The first one states that the sum of sensitivities with respect to all elements in a network is invariant under continuously equivalent transformation. The second one states that the individual sensitivity for capacitances and inductances is invariant if there are no capacitance loops and inductance cut-sets in a network."
"In previous papers an active directional coupler using a triode, [1],[2] and its use in a bidirectional broad-band amplifier, [3] has been described. It is obvious that it is important to investigate how such a device can be realized using semiconductor techniques. The use of transistors in directional couplers creates new problems due to the variability of transistor parameters. In this paper a transistorized directional coupler that exhibits high directivity over a broad band and a tight coupling coefficient is described. The problems of stability and nonlinear distortion are discussed and overcome by using feedback. Noise problems are also treated. The use of such a coupler in bidirectional amplifiers is also proposed. For this use, the problem of the long-term stabilization of the directivity of the active coupler has been overcome by means of a control system using a reference signal. Experimental results concerning directivity and bandwidth confirm the possibility of a practical use of the proposed amplifier in bidirectional broad-band communication systems."
"A state-space analysis is given forRCnetworks containing an arbitrary number of periodically operated switches. The results are then applied to the design ofRCintegrated circuits in which large values of resistance are achieved by placing a switch in series with each resistor of small resistance. It is shown that the technique provides excellent desensitivity to environmental change. Finally an experiment verifying the usefulness of the method is described."
"Forced oscillations of the van der Pol oscillator with delayed amplitude limiting are analyzed using the derivative-expansion method. The forcing function is taken to be either sinusoidal or white noise. The oscillator's output depends on whether the excitation is \"hard\" [i.e., excitation amplitude isO(1)] or \"soft\" [i.e., excitation amplitude isO(\\mu),\\muis a small parameter], and whether the excitation is resonant (i.e., excitation frequency is near natural frequency) or not. Explicit first-order expressions are obtained for the output in the nonresonant case. If the excitation is soft, the steady-state output is a combination of terms having frequencies equal to those of the natural and excitation frequencies, with the forced response being dominated by the natural response. On the other hand, if the excitation is hard, the natural response fades away as time increases over a wide range of frequencies and excitation amplitudes. Consequently, the output is harmonic, having a frequency equal to the excitation frequency. In the resonant case, the steady-state output is synchronized at the excitation frequency, irrespective of whether the excitation is soft or hard. The frequency response equation is a family of curves that depends on the excitation amplitude and the delay time as parameters. The stability of these harmonic oscillations is determined. For the noise perturbed oscillator, the conditional probability distribution for the deviations from the stationary stable state is presented."
"The zero-memory nonlinear (ZNL) filter is of fundamental importance in the analysis and optimization of more complex nonlinear systems. In this paper an inverse problem to the ZNL prefiltering problem is treated. The general solution is simplified for a particular form of the filters. The method is illustrated by numerical examples to demonstrate the improvement in minimum-mean-squared error and to show the resulting filters' characteristics."
"Rational polynomial Laplace transform approximations for truncated versions of\\sin (kt + b)/(kt + b)are produced by use of a nonlinear programming technique designed to help avoid the usual false minimum problems. An economical network synthesis technique for realization of the nonminimum phase functions thus produced is also shown."
"This paper discloses some of the prominent features of an(n + p)-terminal,n-port network synthesis procedure which is capable of producing various equivalent network realizations having different branch topologies on appropriate port-tree structures. The method is based on(n + 1)- and(n + 2)-terminal synthesis techniques that result in the generation of(p + 2)subnetworks whose combination results in a complete realization. One network provides all of the necessary inter-subtree transmission properties but contains both positive and negative branches; a second network having no negative branches provides no inter-subtree transmission but introduces parasitics among the ports within each port subtree andpintra-subtree networks, which complete the requirements of thepport subtrees. The completed network contains no negative branches and completely satisfies then(n + 1)/2requirements of then-port. The procedure is basic, straightforward, and is capable of systematization."
"In linear graphs a commutative ring (Wang algebra) yields relations between sets of partial graphs such as trees,k-trees, cut sets, circuits, and paths. This algebra is defined, explored, and applied, resulting in a unified approach by which theorems long connected with Wang algebra are rederived and new theorems are obtained. Some scattered relations, previously found by the method of \"derivatives,\" appear as natural and special results. Special stress is put on the generation of sets of partial graphs in graphs compounded by interconnecting disjoint graphs, or by methods of cutting up the given graph. Many new theorems are derived which simplify computations by splitting a given problem into several of smaller dimension."
"A new method of listing all possible trees of any given graph without duplication or redundancy, using simple geometrical properties of the graph, is proposed. The procedure given is suitable for both manual and automatic computation, and any modifications to the given graph can be catered to by suitable interpolation and extrapolation. An alternate method for complete graphs, derived from it, gives the trees arranged in an order most suitable for their storage as master forest matrices and for directly obtaining trees and 2-trees of any given graph through simple modifications to them instead of starting from scratch every time. Some properties of master forest matrices are discussed, which., inter alia, lead to a formula for the number of trees in a sub-graph of a complete graph. While an edge-numbering convention and a criterion for a tree play the key roles in systematic generation of trees, the storage technique makes it possible to obtain all the co-factors and determinants of a node-admittance matrix of any network (within the range of storage) by merely operating on one single master forest matrix."
"A class of realizations (termed uniform realizations) for time-variable impulse response matrices is defined which plays a role similar to that of minimal (completely controllable and observable) realizations for time-invariant systems; members of the class have bounded coefficients and are uniformly asymptotically stable if the impulse response matrix represents a bounded-input boundedoutput (BIBO) stable system. The necessary and sufficient conditions for an impulse response matrix to be uniformly realizable are derived together with an explicit realization procedure. Sufficient conditions for a system to be realizable as a passive network are also obtained, and it is shown that any BIBO-stable uniformly realizable impulse response matrix may be synthesized as the transfer response of a passive network composed of constant positive inductors and resistors and bounded time-variable gyrators."
"The stability of a single-input, single-output, singleloop, linear, time-invariant system is related to the properties of its open-loop gain. The impulse response of the open-loop system may be of the formg(t) = r + g_{a}(t) + \\sum_{i=0}^{\\infty} g_{i} \\delta (t - t_{i})whereris a nonnegative constant,g_{a}is integrable on[0, \\infty), and\\sum_{i=0}^{\\infty} |g_{i}|<\\infty. If the Nyquist diagram of the open-loop gain does not go through nor encircle the critical point, then the closed-loop system is inputoutput stable, in the several meanings explained in the paper."
"A method is presented which uses topological formulas to find network functions for general linear networks which may contain any type of dependent sources, gyrators, coupled coils, and ideal transformers. The general linear network is divided into a passive reciprocal subnetwork and a subnetwork consisting of the active and/or nonreciprocal elements. The topological formulas express the network functions in terms of the tree-admittance products of the passive reciprocal subnetwork, and/or the products' of the active and/or nonreciprocal elements and the(k + 1)-tree products of the passive reciprocal subnetwork."
"The simultaneous nonlinear differential equations for an oscillator having two resonators of different frequencies are solved by means of a simple graphical procedure leading to curves of the square of instantaneous amplitude of voltage across one resonator versus the square of instantaneous amplitude of voltage across the other resonator. Families of these curves for various combinations of resonator parameters show clearly that if the shunt conductances of the two resonators are equal and the capacitances are also equal, the steady-state mode of oscillation is determined by random noise. If the capacitances are equal, but the conductances unequal, the probability is high that steady-state oscillation will be in the mode controlled by the resonator having the lower shunt conductance. If the conductances are equal, but the capacitances unequal, the probability is high that the steady-state mode will be that controlled by the low-capacitance resonator. If one resonator has much larger conductance but much smaller capacitance than the other, the oscillation may first build up rapidly in the mode controlled by the low-capacitance resonator, but reach the steady state in the mode controlled by the low-conductance resonator."
"A method for obtaining a cut set matrix of a graph whose tree graph has a local subgraph isomorphic to a prescribed linear graph is presented. The local subgraph of a tree graph with respect to a tree is the subgraph defined by the collection of all the trees whose distance from the tree is one."
"An active method of synthesis is described, which allows us to realize immittances and transfer functions ofncomplex variables, bilinear with respect ton - 1variables. Each of thesen - 1variables is realized as the gain of only one controlled source."
"An operatorF[e, i]defined onn-port networks is said to satisfy the condition of edge-port conservation if it satisfies\\Sigma_{all the \\\\ ports} F[e_{m}, i_{m}] = \\Sigma_{all the \\\\ edges} F[\\upsilon_{k},j_{k}]wheree_{m}, i_{m}are the voltage and current functions at themth port and\\upsilon_{k},j_{k}are the voltage and current functions at thekth edge, respectively. It is shown that an operator satisfies the condition if and only if the operator is additive."
"It has been shown that with the help of the separation characteristics of the general lossless reciprocal three-port, the choice of the magnitudes of the three scattering coefficientss_{11}, s_{22}, ands_{33}is only possible within certain bounds. This point of approach yields the same results as those given by Butterweck.[1]"
"This correspondence reports a method of calculating the minimum number of iterative stages required to satisfy a given gain and bandwidth specification. The method can be applied to transistor or vacuum tube video amplifiers so long as the individual stage gain-bandwidth product is constant."
"In this correspondence, a necessary condition for the stability of oscillations in nonlinear networks is proved. It is shown that this condition is necessary and sufficient for second-order systems; it is also equivalent to the well-known Loeb criterion for second-order systems."
"Approximations are derived for current and voltage produced on a skin-effect lossy line by a step-function voltage source with a series lumped resistance. Differences among computed normalized voltages corresponding to different values of source resistance increase with distance from the source and with time after wavefront arrival."
"The life and work of Dr. Gabriel Kron, internationally known engineer, mathematician, and former member of the General Engineering Staff at General Electric, are reviwed. Dr. Kron passed away in Schenectady on March 25, 1968. He will long be remembered by the engineering world for his outstanding contributions in the field of non-Euclidean geometry and tensor analysis. He compared in stature to Steinmetz, and his career was highlighted by many significant accomplishments and contributions in the field of electrical engineering."
"When a gyrator is made by paralleling two transconductancesg_{1}and-g_{2}, the transconductances must be realized as low-pass amplifiers. It is shown that the gyrator bandwidth can be only a small fraction of the amplifier bandwidth."
"Transfer functions with complex poles, as well as zeros, are sometimes implemented by means of arrangements in which feedback is applied to the ground node of a passive network. Formulation of the voltage transfer function of the passive networkT(s) = P(s)/Q(s), in terms of admittance products, permits topological organization of the components of the network into subsets of numerator two-trees and denominator two-trees. All numerator two-trees are immune to feedback. Some denominator two-trees are susceptible to feedback, others are not. Identification of susceptible two-trees simplifies the mathematics; it also facilitates determination of alternative designs."
"The gain bandwidth restrictions are considered for a distributed parameter load consisting of a resistor shunted by an open-circuited stub of delay length\\tau. An aperiodic solution for the optimum flat gain response in the frequency domain is obtained by using a computer, solution, which solves the infinite set of simultaneous constraint equations associated with the infinite number of periodically spaced load transmission zeros. It is shown that this solution converges to the largest gain bandwidth product when only the fundamental frequency band is permitted and all higher order periodicities of the frequency response are properly suppressed by progressively shifting the center frequency of the higher order passbands, as their gains are attenuated. Furthermore, a new result for optimum flat gain periodic response is obtained. In this case, the equalizer is a cascade of commensurate lines each of length\\tau /2. This gives twice the gain of the best periodic equalizer employing lines equal to the stub length\\tau. Finally, synthesis techniques for realizing the optimum periodic equalizer are discussed."
"Active filters may consist of a cascade of isolated resonators, with each resonator supplying a single pair of complexconjugate poles. This paper supplies a detailed analysis of someRC-amplifier resonators whose characteristics are well suited for practical filters. The calculations are facilitated by a set of sensitivity identities. One resonator, taken from the Sallen and Key catalog, is shown to have extremely low passive sensitivities:S_{Z}^{Q} = \\pm \\frac{1}{6}for all passive elements. ActiveQmultiplication is used to extend the usefulness of the circuit. Analysis of the dualintegrator feedback resonator shows that it is notably insensitive to amplifier parasitics. Finally, the dual-integrator concept is realized in a resonator that uses only two amplifiers. The several resonators supply a range of useful pole-Q's from low values to several hundred."
"The properties of three terminal positive and negative impedance convertors are defined in terms of the cofactors of the indefinite nodal admittance matrix, the special cases of the ideal transformer, power amplifier, and voltage and current inverting negative impedance convertors being considered in detail. The nodal admittance matrix of a six-node resistive network with two infinite gain amplifiers embedded in it is discussed, and element values are obtained to realize the required analog circuits with a minimum number of components. The analog circuits obtained are simple to set up and are ideal for demonstrating and testing applications of impedance convertors to filter network realizations. Of particular interest is the circuit obtained for the case of a loaded, phase-reversing, positive impedance convertor, which employs only one operational amplifier and four resistors in a bridge circuit, which is thought to be novel, and which can be extended by the introduction of a second amplifier and three resistors to produce a simple realization of a negative impedance invertor (NIV)."
"This paper considers multiterminal common-ground networks of resistors, capacitors, self-inductors, and grounded unity-gain voltage amplifiers (VGUGAs). It is shown that the admittance matrices of such networks must have certain properties on the positive real axis of the complex frequency plane. A matrix with this set of properties is defined to be anrymatrix. A synthesis procedure is then given for realizing anrymatrix as the admittance matrix of one of these networks. The minimum number of inductors required in the synthesis of thisrymatrix is established and the synthesis procedure can meet this requirement."
"Necessary and sufficient conditions exist, which show that only a subset of all rational matrices can be realized as the transfer or admittance matrix of a common-ground network of resistors, inductors, capacitors, and grounded unity-gain voltage amplifiers (VGUGAs). This paper shows that by eliminating the ground constraint on the amplifiers (VUGAs) one can realize any rational transfer or admittance matrix with a common-ground RC :VUGA network. The synthesis is based upon a simple circuit whose transfer function is the ratio of two independent admittances. This is used with one capacitor and one resistor to form a differentiator. The differentiators are cascaded to form an admittance polynomial whose coefficients are determined byRCproducts. Transfer functions are realized by forming ratios of these polynomial admittances. The synthesis procedure results in selecting component values by inspection and permits tuning the circuits with the resistors."
"This paper presents techniques for achieving various combinations of zero-incremental and zero-gross-sensitivity integrated (activeRCfilter circuits. Use is made of the fact that in the usual integrated circuit, all the capacitors have the same temperature coefficient, and similarly with the resistors. It is shown how this may be exploited to achieve for the system complex pole pair: 1) zero incremental sensitivity to temperature variations at a single temperatureT_{1}; 2) identical values at any two temperaturesT_{1}, T_{2}3) incremental sensitivity atT_{1}and identical values atT_{1}, T_{2}; 4) identical values atT_{1}, T_{2}, T_{3}. The techniques are applicable whenever each member of the same class of elements (such as resistors, capacitors, etc.) has the same relative change from the nominal."
"With switches, capacitances, and regenerating devices, it is possible to simulate the behavior of a transmission line. Hence, one can build lossless filters from these elements. Due to the absence of inductances, this class of filters is particularly suitable for integration. Its losslessness makes it less sensitive to component variation. Experimental work shows that the various approximations involved in the theory are justified on physical grounds."
"Bandpass filters without inductors can be realized by using all-pass frequency-sensitive phase-shift networks. Filters withQvalues approaching 1000 have been constructed. A method of reducing theQsensitivity is reported."
"Chebyshev error norms of polynomial approximations of the ideal filter complex transmittance are defined and procedures are developed to minimize these norms. The method emphasizes the role of the even and odd parts of the transfer function instead of the usual compromise between phase and amplitude. The resulting filter family is analyzed using an approximate analytical solution. Characteristics are compared with various classes of low-pass fliters."
"In this paper, a method for designing Chebyshev filters having flat group-delay characteristics in the main part of the passband is presented. From the general approximation theory, a method for obtaining the transfer function of Chebyshev filters with complex transmission zeros is derived, which are so determined that the group-delay characteristics may be flat in the main part of the passband. A new theory of cascade synthesis, which is an extension of Belevitch's cycle, and an extended bisection theorem are introduced. By the applications of these results, Chebyshev filters with flat group delay can be realized. A practical design example is also included."
"One of the most important problems of computeraided network design is the optimization of network characteristics by iterative calculation. In this paper, the problem of realizing a network whose transmission characteristics approximate a given function in Chebyshev sense is treated as a nonlinear programming problem, and a method of solving this problem by successively solving linear programming problems, which are derived by locally linearizing the original nonlinear programming problem, is proposed. An improvement of the method for reducing the computation time is also considered and is proved to be practical and very effective by many design examples."
"A method is presented for determining the transfer function of low-pass filters whose attenuation shows a Chebyshev characteristic in the stopband and whole phase or delay time can __-_2 for n even be specified independently of the aforementioned attenuation properties. The transfer functions may be realized by simple ladder networks. In order to obtain, as far as possible, transformerless circuits, the transfer function to be determined has a pole at infinity."
"A state-space approach is used to derive a general analysis and design method for ac compensation networks including both synchronous filters and demodulating networks. The approach is based on a general analysis ofnportRCnetworks, containing an arbitrary number of periodically operated switches, subjected to a suppressed carrier modulated input. The results can be simply extended to include passive and activeRLCnetworks, which can be described by state equations."
"The synthesis of a general class of filter with maximally flat passband and Chebyshev stopband attenuation characteristic is presented. The filter has an nth order voltage transfer function with m pairs of transmission zeros in the stopband, wheren \\geq 2 m + 1. Butterworth and inverse Chebyshev filters are special cases of this general class withm = 0andn = 2m + 1, respectively."
"Tables of transition bandwidth ratio, zero transmission and minimum attenuation frequencies in the stopband, and element values for two kinds of realizations of odd-order generalized inverse Chebyshev filters withnup to 11 andmup to 3, all using minimum stopband loss as a parameter, are given."
"All-pass networks are often used to compensate for phase or delay distortion. A new method for synthesizing such networks is described here. The algorithm that results is suitable for a broad class of practical applications. Results for several problems, which were solved by use of a computer program based on the new method, are included."
"The existence of overshoot in the step response of a high-pass filter is shown to be dependent upon the behavior of the frequency response of the filter at the origin."
"From a study of filters of order ranging from one to five, it is conjectured that under the constraint of a fixed --3-dB bandwidth, an all-pole low-pass filter gives the best monotonic transient response when it has identical negative real poles. The term \"best transient response\" is used to mean least rise time and delay time and, in addition, the step response is not allowed to have a staircase shape. A partial proof of the conjecture is given, followed by a discussion of the time and frequency domain characteristics and realization of the identical negative real pole filter."
"An algorithm for the computation of element values of mid-series or mid-shunt low-passLCladder networks is given. The algorithm is based on the network interpretation of Darlington's formulas described in a recent article by Amstutz. This algorithm is programmed with the consideration of Fujisawa's criterion, which makes it possible to determine the attenuation pole sequence for the positive element values. The algorithm gives accurate results for any number of sections in the ladder network, and it is insensitive to the transformation of variables used in filter synthesis to overcome the accuracy problem."
"A unified theory ofn-ports(n = 1, 2, 3, \\cdots )withRLCorR(L + r)(C + g)circuit elements (without ideal transformers) has been described. The essential parts are the theory of theMfunctionF(\\Lambda) = U(\\omega)) + j V(\\omega); the realization ofMfunctions by ladder networks; the two-ports specified by the general characteristic equation (GCE)g(\\Lambda)g(\\Lambda) = f(\\Lambda)f(\\Lambda) + h_{1}(\\Lambda)h_{1}(\\Lambda) + j_{1}(\\Lambda)j_{1}(\\Lambda), or the sum of transmitted, reflected, and dissipated powers equals the maximum delivered power; the introduction of pseudoattenuation poles; the deformation of the curve of anMfunction; the principles of rearrangement of the GCE; and the reduction of ann-port ton - 1two-ports. Simultaneously prescribed transfer (apart from a constant) and reflection factors are realized 1) by a ladder network for attenuation poles (AP) in the closed left-half\\Lambdaplane, and 2) by parallel-connected networks for AP in the open right-half\\Lambdaplane. Without the restriction to a minimum number of circuit elements, perfect coupling of a transformer in case 1) can be avoided. Case 2) requires a superfluous number of circuit elements, but consists of no transformer and can be applied to case 1). Case 2) is valid forRCnetworks and case 1) may be extended toRCnetworks. In case 1), an equivalent circuit of a physical system can be absorbed in the network without disturbing the prescribed frequency characteristic, and the values of circuit elements of the ladder network are explicit functions inU(\\omega), V(\\omega)), and their first derivatives with respect to\\omegaat AP. These facilitate the application of network theory to the field of distributed circuit elements. In case 2), the values of circuit elements for realizing a prescribed voltage transfer factor can be expressed as functions of the coefficients ofg(\\Lambda)andf(\\Lambda); thus the computations are simplified. The possibility is mentioned of extensions of this theory, such as the ladder network without transformers, etc."
"Given a real strictly Hurwitz polynomialH_{n}(s) = a_{0}\\prod_{\\upsilon = 1}^{n} (s - s_{\\upsilon}), n = 3, 4, \\cdots ,the standard method of calculating the continued fraction expansion of\\{[odd H_{n}(s)]/ [even H_{n}(s)]\\}^{\\pm 1}about its pole at infinity uses Routh's scheme or Hurwitz's determinants\\Delta_{r}, r = 1, 2, \\cdots , n, in the coefficients ofH_{n}(s)(on the equivalence of the two, see [2]). In filter theory, cases are often encountered where knowledge of the zeros ofH_{n}(s)precedes that of its coefficients, and one would then prefer to have formulas for the coefficients in the above continued fraction expansion directly in terms of the former rather than the latter. This is achieved by expressing\\Delta_{r}as bialternants in the zeros ofH_{n}(s)and reads\\Delta_{r} = (-)^{r(r+1)/2} a_{0}^{r}A(0, 1, \\cdots , n - r - 1, n - r + 1, \\cdots , n + r - 1)/A(0, 1, \\cdots , n - 1), where the alternant in the denominator is the Vandermonde ins_{1}, s_{2}, \\cdots , s_{n}, whereas the alternant in the numerator is obtained from it on replacing the exponents0, 1, \\cdots , n - 1by0, 1, \\cdots, n - r - 1, n - r + 1, \\cdots , n + r - 1. Examples includeH_{n}(s) = \\prod_{\\upsilon = 1}^{n} [s - j \\exp (2 \\upsilon - 1)j \\pi /2n]andH_{n}(s) = (s + 1)^{n}."
"A concise description is given of some recently developed filter design techniques. The discussion includes equal-ripple and maximally flat passband filters with general stopbands, as well as equal-ripple stopband filters with general passbands. To solve the approximation problem and to improve numerical conditioning, the design is carried out exclusively in terms of one or two transformed frequency variables. A step-by-step description is given for the design of each filter type; the steps are so formulated that the erosion of significant digits is minimized. The design processes given are unique and are directly suitable for automatic computer programs. Experience with such programs, using the algorithms described in the paper, indicates that filters up to about degree 30 may be designed using only single precision in the calculations. A discussion of some practical predistortion techniques, as well as a listing of available tabulated filter design information, is also included."
"A new design theory is developed for the insertionloss synthesis of narrow-band crystal band-elimination filters. The theory is based on the narrow-band approximation and consequent pseudoreactance theory originally suggested by Baum and extensively used for narrow-band bandpass filter design. The structure used is a tandem connection of bridged-Tsections, able to accomodate arbitrary crystal capacitance ratios and, through the use of a transformer, arbitrary crystal inductances. An additional free parameter can be used to reduce the spread of element values. An example illustrates the excellent agreement between approximate theory and exact final analysis."
"This correspondence describes a method by which cascade lattice crystal filters having symmetrical bandpass response may be designed by a simple transformation ofLClow-pass ladder filters. An example is given of the design of a fourth order Cauer parameter filter from tabulated values."
"In the paper by Andersen and Lee, five conditions onS_{11}(\\lambda)are shown to be necessary for a realizable\\tilde{Z}(\\lambda). In this correspondence, it is shown that only four of these conditions are necessary and it is proved that they are also sufficient."
"After noting the advantages of the method, some restrictions on the loss representations and limitations on the extent of predistortion that can be usefully accommodated are described. Examples of the predistortion of a wide-band and a narrow-band filter are given."
"Formulas are presented that permit symmetrical ladder filters, having 7th degree elliptic-function (or similar) response, to be adapted without change of insertion loss to accommodate unequal resistive terminations. These relations, together with those published previously for corresponding filters of 5th degree response, could extend the area of application of the existing catalogs of symmetrical designs."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"It is claimed that the noise induction problem is somewhat more complicated than was presented in the original paper, which appeared as paper 19TP67-955 in the IEEE Trans. on Communication Technology, vol. COM-14, no. 4, pp. 648-652, August 1967. The author of the original paper replies."
"This paper describes the method by which direct control telephone systems may be adapted to receive tone signals from the subscriber instrument. The methods of association of the common equipment and control of connections during the signaling period are outlined together with the intermediate storage techniques that are used. The guards employed to assure receipt of only legitimate signals are indicated. A description of digit examination facilities and equipment mounting space requirements is included."
"Various structures have recently been obtained for optimally demodulating analog signals transmitted over a noisy, randomly fading channel. Their performance, in a least mean-signal error sense, is evaluated in this paper. In the case of the optimum linear filter for AM (or equivalent baseband) signals, as the carrier-to-noise ratio increases indefinitely, an irreducible error is found. The Cramèr-Rao (lower) bound on the error is found and indicates, however, that the fading error can be reduced to zero by use of a nonlinear receiver. An analysis of the maximum a posteriori receiver, utilizing estimates of the channel fading characteristics, does in fact indicate that for this nonlinear receiver, the fading error can be made to approach zero. Similar considerations are found to apply in the case of PM signals."
"Conference bridges allow a number of remotely located telephone subscribers to hold a conference. A new bridge using solid-state circuitry and a plug-in module-type equipment arrangement has been designed. The number of participants in a conference call varies. The capability and flexibility required have been achieved by designing a 30-port bridge that can be subdivided into five separate 6-port groups. These groups can then be combined to service large or small groups of subscribers. When large numbers of two-wire subscribers are connected together, the sum of the returning echoes is substantial. In the new bridge, each port is equipped with a voice activated gain switch that keeps a fixed amount of loss in each of the two-wire loops."
"The generation of single-sideband angle-modulated (SSB-\\phiM) waves compatible with conventional detection methods requires involved processing. The result of these operations yields a signal whose spectral properties are more complicated than simply being one-sided versions of the analogous double-sideband spectrum, and hence it is not obvious whether or not a saving in bandwidth results. Here the spectral properties of SSB-\\phiMwaves are investigated in detail when the modulating signal is a sample function of a stationary Gaussian process. It is shown that the power spectrum of SSB-\\phiMis related to the modulating baseband spectrum through an integral equation. This equation is solved explicitly for small and large modulating indices, and it is shown how simple numerical techniques provide solutions for arbitrary index. It is concluded that SSB-\\phiMexhibits properties very similar to SSB-AM with a strong carrier component When the modulation index is much less than unity. Therefore, if minimum bandwidth plus the attributes of incoherent demodulation are desired, and a Strong carrier can be tolerated, SSB-\\phiMcould find an application. On the other hand, for modulation indices larger than about 3, no advantage is gained since the SSB spectrum has a bandwidth equal to or larger than the bandwidth of conventional angle-modulated waves."
"Probabilities of error are derived for 2- and 4-phase signaling over anL-diversity branch, time-invariant, additive Gaussian noise channel and forM-phase signaling over anLdiversity branch, Rayleigh fading, additive Gaussian noise channel. Both channels corrupt the signaling waveforms transmitted through them by introducing an additive Gaussian noise and an unknown or random multiplicative gain and phase shift in the transmitted signal. The receiver processing consists of cross correlating the signal plus noise received over each diversity branch by a noisy reference signal, which is derived either from the previously received informationbearing signals or from the transmission and reception of a pilot signal, and adding the outputs from allL-diversity branches to form the decision variable. The novel aspects of this paper are: 1) the result for the phase distribution of the decision variable forM-phase signaling over anL-diversity branch, Rayleigh fading channel, 2) the explicit expressions for the probabilities of error forM-phase signaling systems operating over anL-diversity branch, Rayleigh fading channel, and 3) the expression for the probability of error for 4-phase signaling over a time-invariant channel. Previously published error probabilities for 2- and 4-phase signaling over a Rayleigh fading channel are obtained as special cases."
"A new method of improving delta modulation with syllabic companding is presented. Companded delta modulation has a sort of syllabic companding function in its local decoder without depending on any nonlinear elements such as a variolosser. Analyses are made of the stationary companding law, dynamic response, overload characteristics, signal-to-noise ratio, overall transmission characteristics, etc. These results have been experimentally verified. The signal-to-noise ratio of the proposed companded delta modulation method is almost equivalent to that of a conventional seven-bit compandored PCM. According to the present analysis, even better performance can be obtained with the same clock frequency used for PCM: 56 kilobits per second."
"In this paper the derivation of a general equation for the pull-in range of a phase-locked loop is outlined. The equation is applied to a typical third-order loop, and algebraic results are derived in terms of the loop dc gain and network break frequencies. Expressions are given for the second-order terms which are usually neglected, so that an evaluation of the accuracy of results can be made."
"This paper concerns the absolute stability problem of the delta modulation system via the Popov-Tsypkin stability theorems for nonlinear sampled-data systems. Emphasis has been placed on the stability criterion for a speech communication system using the delta modulation technique where the system contains a reshaping network."
"Two problems related to passing signals through an ideal bandpass filter are treated in this paper. The transmission of a biphase modulated signal in Gaussian noise is solved for the asymptotically high and low values of output signal-to-noise ratio (SNR). The asymptotic solutions for high and low values of output signal to distortion ratio are given for the case in which two independent biphase modulated signals (on separate carriers) are transmitted in a noiseless environment."
"The expression for the error probability of reception of binary signals in a Rician channel has been stated. In general, the expression is difficult to compute. That is why only two opposite cases were computed (no fluctuations in any branches, and the case when the specular component was absent). This paper considers the case of dependent and nondependent fluctuations, and an exact estimation of the channel parameters is presumed. Also fluctuations of energy in the specular branches are taken into account."
"A general discussion of the transmission problems involved in telephone conference systems due to noise, echo, and singing is presented. The application of voice switched loss seems to be the best way to alleviate these difficulties. New problems must now be considered due to weak talkers and occasional simultaneous talking. Two types of conference connections are discussed: First, when three or more telephones are connected together, and second, when groups of people at two or more locations talk back and forth using microphones and loudspeakers. Recent work discussed here provides substantial transmission improvement for this type of service."
"A new data-transmission method that has twice the speed capability of the duobinary technique over an identical bandpass transmission medium is presented. Advantages of this method include promising performance and completely digital manner of signal generation, thus considerably reducing the circuit complexity. The system is based on correlative techniques in which the digital encoding forms an integral part of the carrier modulation. The process is sufficiently general to be applicable to both voice anti broadband communication channels."
"Data transmission (digital signaling) systems generally transmit continuous, essentially bandlimited signals that represent alphanumeric sequences. The transmitting apparatus in such systems must therefore convert discrete symbols-often binary pulses-into prescribed analog waveforms. Current commercial systems do this via simple filtering, gating, and conventional modulation. These practices limit the types of waveforms that can be used and they are not always amenable to variable rate signaling. This paper describes a hybrid digital-analog method for approximating closely almost any reasonable digital signaling waveform. The basic idea is very simple: a \"staircase\" approximation of the desired signal can be generated via a shift-register version of a transversal filter. Variations on this idea, such as derivative approximation and multirate shifting, enhance its accuracy without destroying its simplicity and time-frequency scalability."
"A family of practical data-transmission systems, whose design is motivated by a desire to reduce the required energy per bit (for a specified noise power density) while operating in a well-defined part of the frequency spectrum, is described. The blocks ofjinformation bits that are periodically fed to the transmitter are encoded into equal energy waveforms whose design is based upon the use of truncated\\sin(kt + b)/(kt + b)impulse response networks, together with ann-dimensional unit hypersphere code. The same waveform generation equipment is used for matched filtering at the receiver terminal. This design approach leads to equipment that performs well in the presence of impulse noise as well as Gaussian noise."
"A comparative evaluation of several feedback methods of telemetry data compressor output buffer overflow prevention is described. The study was made using a digital computersimulated multichannel data compressor, operating on recorded Explorer XVII satellite telemetry data. The performances of control methods based on precompression digital filtering and sample deletion are evaluated and compared with that of a system which varies the maximum allowable reconstructed data error, or tolerance, to control the queue length. The tolerance-control system is also examined in detail, and the desirability of tolerance control, based on the time integral of the queue length in addition to the queue length itself, is determined. Test results indicate that the tolerance-control system exhibits the highest performance with the Explorer XVII data, followed by the sample deletion and the filtering methods, in that order. Results also show that the addition of integral feedback enhances the performance of the adaptive tolerance-control system. Ranges of tolerance-control parameter values yielding the highest performance, according to the adopted criteria, are presented."
"Deep fading on line-of-sight microwave paths is usually a result of multipath interference phenomena. Frequency diversity has been the most common method of protecting against such fading. In the past few years, vertical space diversity has also come into use. This paper discusses its characteristics, methods of determining spacings, and describes some results achieved. It is concluded that vertical space diversity provides a very effective tool for combating multipath fading on line-of-sight paths, regardless of the source of the fading."
"The passage of multichannel frequency division multiplexed (FDM) signals through an amplitude limiting nonlinear device produces crosstalk in each channel output due to intermodulations among signals in all channels. The signal power S0to crosstalk power Ncratio in any particular channel determines signal degradation. This paper considers multichannel FDM signals passing through a saturated bandpass amplifier with transfer characteristic of smoothly limiting error function curve, and determines a lower bound ofS_{0}/N_{c}as a function ofq, which is related to the limiting level. By invoking the central limit theorem, the FDM signals are represented by a Gaussian noise, excepting the signal in the channel whereS_{0}/N_{c}is to be determined. The signal in the channel under consideration is represented by a constant amplitude sine wave. When an assumption that the input noise power spectral density is symmetric about the center band is made, such as a Gaussian power spectrum considered in the analysis, the computation of a lower bound forS_{0}/N_{c}was equivalent to the consideration of the center channel, where the crosstalk power is maximum. The problem is an extension of an earlier work by Cahn, who considered an idealized saturation amplifier. The result is presented in a graph where it is seen that an infinite clipping case of the present analysis agrees with that of Cahn."
"A scheme for transmitting binary signals through a Rayleigh fading multipath medium is analyzed. The scheme envisions an adaptive receiver and a feedback channel. The feedback channel conveys information to the transmitter on the forward channel state learned at the receiver. The transmitter uses this information to modify transmission. Results that show the improvement in performance of the system under the assumptions of perfect receiver learning and noise-free feedback are presented. In this way, upper bounds on system performance are established."
"An exponential-type bound on error rate Pefor peaklimited binary coherent channels operated at low signal-to-noise ratio (SNR) is presented. The bound depends exponentially only on the first and second moments of the channel output and serves to justify, in part, the use of SNR calculations for error-rate performance. It is assumed that the receiver outputVis given by a simple sum ofn( = [TW])identically distributed, independent random variables wi, each of which is decomposable into the sum of two independent random variables ziand ηi, i.e.,w_{i} = z_{i}+\\eta_{i}. The ziare peak limited byB_{z},|z_{i}| \\leq B_{z}, whereas ηiare normal (0, \\sigma^{2}). The zirepresent the output of a peak-limited channel and the ηirepresent any post channel receiver thermal noise (which may be zero,\\sigma^{2} = 0). For example, the zimay represent the output of a bandpass-limited satellite repeater, with an interference input in addition to the desired signal, and ηithe front-end noise in a receiving ground station. No assumption as to the channel-limiting characteristic or interference model, other than stated above, is made. Defining α as the ratio[Ew]^{2}/var w(i.e., twice the receiver input average SNR) and β as the ratioB_{z}^{2}/var w(i.e., twice the receiver input peak SNR), then for\\alpha < 1,P_{e} < e^{-n\\mu}\\mu=\\frac{\\alpha}{2}(1-\\alpha)-\\frac {\\gamma^{3}}{6} e^{\\gamma}\\gamma= \\sqrt{\\alpha\\beta}, i. e., twice the geometric mean of average and peak SNR. If all odd moments ofzhave the same sign then a larger μ is obtained:\\mu=\\frac{\\alpha}{2}(1-\\alpha)-\\frac{\\gamma^{4}}{24}e^{\\gamma^{2}}/28Upper bounds on the size of α and β are provided to guarantee\\mu > 0. An example of a captured limiter that exhibits SNR suppression effects on the error rate is presented."
"Performance requirements are established for practical time-division multiplex (TDM) sampling and distribution contacts for use in high speed TDM systems employing the resonant transfer technique. Various contact designs and their shortcomings are discussed. Actual system transmission performance of a 128 time-slot TDM switching system is presented."
"There are a wide variety of modulation methods among the recently used telemetry systems. Characteristics and capabilities of some of these methods are briefly described. There is no generally accepted \"best\" method. Requirements for conservation of radio spectrum have a strong influence on the choice of modulation parameters. New Inter-Range Instrumentation Group (IRIG) modulation standards have been adopted. Some parameter variations within the new FM-FM standards are presented. The spectrum and data capacity of IRIG PCM-FM are discussed. Various forms of phase-shift keying (PSK) are described. Needs for increased data bandwidth have led to the development of single-sideband subcarriers, used as SSB-FM. Coded transmission with coherent demodulation can provide better carrier signal energy efficiency, but has been rarely used. Noncoherent orthogonal codes appear worthy of further exploitation, being almost as efficient as coherent orthogonal but simpler to produce and detect. Literature references are included for further study."
"In the decommutation of PCM data, synchronization is accomplished by the detection of a coded word located at a known position in the message frame. It is the detection of the code word that is of interest here. This may be accomplished in a more efficient manner with a synchronizer using a self-varying threshold. This device is interesting in that no manual setting by the operator is necessary, and tedious calculation of the correct threshold setting is eliminated. Such a synchronizer has been built and is currently being tested. The object of the paper is two-fold. First, a description of the logic adopted to implement the synchronizer is given. This includes the solutions adopted to provide the window centered about the sync code position and the realization of the equivalent to a double threshold in a fixed-threshold synchronizer. Second, a description and summary of the results of tests, which provide a direct comparison of performance for fixed- and variable-threshold synchronizers and which verify the superiority of the latter, are given."
"In this paper a derivation of the probability of error which arises in 1) adaptive multichannel reception of binary signals and 2) multichannel communication with binary signaling over channels that are characterized by both a specular (nonfading or constant) component and a Rayleigh fading component is presented."
"There is an increasing need for a low-cost, reliable station carrier system for use in the outside telephone plant. The system design constraints of cable attenuation, including bridge taps, cable crosstalk, switching noise, and remote power feed considerations are discussed. The particular design choices that have been made with respect to the modulation plan, carrier transmission levels, line impedance matching, system power, and signaling are described for a six-channel station carrier system. A repeater is used with this system with nominal span loss of 35 dB at 112 kHz, but the loss may be as little as 20 dB to as much as 40 dB. No adjustments or building-out networks are required. The system is installed and maintained in operation without adjustment or alignment, because automatic level regulation and coordination is provided."
"The communications system proposed for provision of remote access to computers for users at Bell Telephone Laboratories is described with emphasis on the dial terminal arrangements. It is planned to offer time-sharing services from four large-scale computers located at the four major Bell Telephone Laboratories installations: three in New Jersey and one in Illinois. Provision of full flexibility of access is planned by utilizing the voice communications arrangements at each location to provide switching for the remote terminals and computer ports involved. It is proposed that the Bell Telephone Laboratories-Western Electric common control switching arrangement network (CORNET), which provides interlocation communication for users at the major locations as well as users at the various branch laboratory installations throughout the country, be utilized for this purpose. Areas of primary consideration in planning communications for the system are discussed, and proposed implementations reflecting these considerations are presented. The considerations largely concern the use of a single communications facility to carry a heterogeneous load resulting from the integration of traffic with two distinctly different sets of characteristics. A number of proposals toward making the most effective use of the telephone communications facilities to carry the two types of traffic simultaneously are described. These proposals are directed at specific equipment and program configurations utilized at the four Bell Telephone Laboratories locations studied. Specific implementations proposed herein include new central office arrangements, as well as new PBX configurations."
"To compose a telephone network with low transmission loss without cumulative increase of quantizing noise, it is desirable to accomplish both transmission and switching with PCM modulation. Such a system, called an integrated telephone network, requires synchronization of incoming signals arriving at each exchange to the local timing pulse generator controlling a time division switch of the exchange. In the synchronization method described in this paper-the equational timing system a local oscillator of controllable frequency that drives the local timing pulse generator in each exchange is controlled by making reference to the phase differences between incoming signals arriving at the exchange from the other exchanges and incoming signals arriving at the other exchanges from the exchange. This synchronization method permits the minimun storage capacity of the buffer memory indispensable for compensation of the junction-delay variation, indefinite enlargement of the network and multiplication of its complexity, and invulnerability to the consequence of failure of one or more junctions or timing pulse generators in the network. The phase differences between the local timing pulse generators of exchanges in the network, the stability of the network applied with this synchronization method, and an example of the equational timing system are discussed."
"An experimental delta modulation system that appears to satisfy Bell System telephone requirements in the telephone plant environment is described. A significant improvement in signal-to-noise ratio over a large dynamic range has been achieved with a modification that is akin to syllabic companding. It consists in adapting the modulator quantizing step size to the signal level over part of the dynamic range. The development was stimulated by the suitability of delta modulators for low-cost integrated circuits. The implementation is based on repeated use of two standard monolithic integrated circuits: an RTL logic gate and an operational amplifier. Several laboratory models have consistently satisfied Bell System transmission requirements with a bit rate of 96.5 kHz and a companding range of 26 dB. A series of subjective evaluation tests are being carried out at this time to assess listener reactions and to optimize system parameters accordingly. Indications are that a reduction of the bit rate will result from these tests. The delta modulation scheme is economically more attractive than pulse-code modulation (PCM) in telephone applications that require digital coding of the analog signal close to its source and with a minimum of common equipment."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"The unigauge concept permits the extension of both supervisory and transmission range in areas served by No. 5 crossbar and electronic switching system (ESS) from 1300 to 2500 ohms. This will be accomplished by placement of gain and range extension equipment in line links of the No. 5 equipment and the \"B\" links of the ESS equipment. The extension of range to 2500 ohms permits the exclusive use of 26-gauge cable in customer loops up to 30 kft (98 percent of all loops) in length and the ability to serve loops as long as 50 kft (99.5 percent of all loops) with a combination of 26 and 22 gauge. Advantages of this concept include reductions in facility costs, conduit and loading coil requirements, and maintenance expense."
"The Nyquist criterion specifies pulse shapes for a synchronous pulse amplitude modulation (PAM) signal which produce no intersymbol interference when the signal is sampled at the proper instants. For bandwidths in excess of one half the pulse repetition rate, the criterion is not uniquely satisfied. This paper considers the selection of pulse shapes for a single-sideband carrier signal which, in addition to satisfying the Nyquist criterion, will introduce minimal interference for small sampling time and carrier phase error at the receiver."
"The performance of phase-locked loops and related signal tracking devices is dependent upon the cross-correlation function between the input signal and a locally generated signal. This paper is concerned with the problem of selecting both the input and local signals so as to minimize the tracking error due to additive noise."
"The pulse stuffing technique for rate equalization of digital channels is extended in this article to the stuffing of a sequence of pulses (a word), which can be coded. The extra capacity needed for signaling the stuffed word decreases exponentially with the number of pulses in it, and may, in fact, be eliminated at a negligible increase in the error rate of the channel."
"In this paper a model for a carrier plus narrowband noise is presented, and with its aid the expected number of cycle slipping events per second for a first-order phase-locked loop (PLL) driven by a narrowband noise corrupted carrier, both with and without a limiter, is determined. Experimental data are presented which indicate the extreme accuracy of the results obtained with the use of this model. The noise model, which is based on the hypothesis that steps of\\pm2\\piin phase exist when a carrier is added to narrowband noise, yields not only computational simplicity in calculating the expected number of cycle slipping events per second in a PLL, but also a good deal of insight into the basic threshold improvement mechanism of the PLL. In particular it is shown that a cycle slipping event, or equivalently a PLL output \"click\" occurs not when the PLL \"loses lock,\" but rather when it tracks a step of\\pm2\\piappearing at its input."
"Utilizing the theory of periodic distributions, a time domain solution to the problem of FM distortion in bandpass channels is developed. The demodulator output is obtained as a finite convolution of the channel impulse-train response with the FM signal. Distortion is calculated by comparing the demodulator output with the desired signal."
"In a 6-GHz FM communications system using a mixer with its diode mounted in waveguide, group delay and linearity anomalies were observed which resulted in serious degradation of intermodulation signal-to-noise performance. This paper describes the problem, presents the reasoning and the laboratory tests by which improper termination of the mixergenerated sum frequency was isolated as its source, and describes a waveguide sum frequency absorber located at the mixer to solve the problem. The necessity of giving attention to all the signals generated in a nonlinear device in waveguide is discussed in this paper and has application to all such components in FM systems."
"This paper gives the design procedure of optimum digital filters for analog-digital phase-locked loops. The inputs considered are the step and ramp change in phase. The digital filters can easily be realized on the digital computer or otherwise. Design curves are given to choose proper noise bandwidth, sampling period, and loop parameters. It is shown that the optimum digitalanalog phase-locked loop is not the discrete version of the optimum continuous phase-locked loop."
"In the design of FDM-FM communication systems, a great deal of importance is attached to an appreciation of those transmission irregularities that yield second- and third-order intermodulation spectra. Such spectra are readily generated by amplitude, phase, and AM/PM conversion anomalies within the FM transmission path. In this paper the results of the available journal literature have been reworked for presentation in a generalized form appropriate for use by equipment designers and system analysts. Intermodulation noise magnitudes and spectral distributions are expressed in terms of the transmission network and system modulation parameters with the AM/PM conversion characteristic extended to that of a second-order power series in radian frequency. To fully exploit the usefulness of the foregoing, the coherency between the intermodulation spectra of all distortion mechanisms is considered. The effects of this correlation is then exemplified for a tandemly interconnected set of distorters. It is found that all secondand third-order distortion mechanisms may be grouped under the classifications of: amplitude, delay, equivalent amplitude/delay, and quasi-equivalent amplitude/delay distortion. It is concluded that, as a result of the correlative structure of the distortion processes, an overall system measurement of intermodulation noise may exhibit an unexpected level of magnitude and/or have a spectral distribution significantly different from any of the inherent system distortions."
"The evolution of a modular control and telemetry system with unusual flexibility for adapting to a wide spectrum of industrial applications is described. Basic logic functions are performed by integrated circuits. All wiring is printed. Unique design concepts permit application to a specific telemetry problem through computer selection of modules from a standard parts list. Modules plug into connectors on a mother board which forms part of the cabinet housing the system and provides all interconnections between modules. One standard mother board is used for all applications. Structuring of the system permits use on any communication channel, provides selection of bit rates from 15 to 2400 bit/s, handles long and short messages for one or an unlimited number of remote locations, and offers a choice of code security techniques."
"A system has been built to make efficient use of meteor-trail reflections for telegraph communications in the VHF band over distances up to 2000 kin. The information is transmitted over the circuit in both directions at an instantaneous rate of 2000 bauds whenever a radio path is established by reflection from a meteor trail. The control of the flow of information is not based on an assessment of the signal strength, as for instance in the JANET system, but on an error-detection scheme with automatic request (ARQ). This technique makes it possible to minimize starting delays and to carry on transmission until the end of the signal burst independently of the rate of decay. A special synchronization procedure has been developed to enable the system to cope with path length variations up to one character in length. The system also features frequency, space, and height diversity. For more than a year extensive measurements were carried out on a 1000-km path at frequencies in the 36- to 39-MHz band. The transmitter power was 200 watts and the antennas were five-element Yagis. Hourly average values of the traffic capacity were found to vary between four to eight 50-baud channels in the early morning and between one half to two channels in the late afternoon with the average over 24 hours approximately three channels. The error rate was less than one in 3000 characters for 90 percent of the time. Statistical data concerning bursts, interval between bursts, and delays in the transmission of messages are presented."
"This paper outlines the planning fundamentals of a 60-MHz coaxial system and describes the equipment concept for the transmission line. This is followed by design considerations on wideband repeaters; measurement results on transistors and various amplifier circuits are then discussed. The following problems and their solutions are also taken into account: remote power supply, power filters, dropping filters, automatic level control, and fault locating. Progress in transistor technology and in hybrid integrated circuits promises good technical solutions to the problems encountered."
"Much has been written on the theoretical description of error correcting codes but, due to a lack of actual channel error patterns, little has been said of practical performance. In this paper the performance of three types of error control is evaluated for the case of independent random errors and for an actual channel exhibiting dense bursts. The selected codes are burst codes with high probabilities of error detection and correction."
"Communication is replacing travel or transportation in an increasing number of ways. It is argued that this substitution should be studied in detail, taking account of the economic, political, and psychological, as well as technical factors involved. The basic problem is formulated in terms of the ways in which the substitution can be made and the kinds of environment in which it might be made. A decision matrix and a decision rule, which can be used to determine whether the decision to make a communications-transportation substitution should be made, are formulated. Ways in which the elements of the decision matrix will be determined are discussed."
"This paper describes a signal processing repeater which enhances the performance that can be obtained with random access discrete address (RADA) digital transmission links which operate in a multiple access mode. In general, RADA modulation techniques employ groups of pulses to transmit information. The pulses within a group normally have different carrier frequencies and are separated from each other by one or more time slots. The communication performance capability of a system which uses these techniques is a function of interference between the pulse groups of different users and background noise. A number of RADA techniques were proposed for the U. S. Army to provide communications within field army and divisions. For army application these had the advantages of rapid synchronization and ease of implementation, accompanied by the disadvantage of requiring large amounts of bandwidth. Significant bandwidth reductions can be obtained through the use of efficient data encoding-decoding techniques. Also, the downlink power requirements can be minimized through the use of an antipodal downlink signal. The processing repeater discussed in this paper can convert any number of randomly phased uplink signals to a single antipodal downlink signal which is amenable to phase coherent detection. The required downlink power is thereby minimized. Thus, the use of RADA techniques with efficient encodingdecoding and a processing repeater can provide a multiple access capability which efficiently uses bandwidth and downlink power."
"The commentator clarifies the basis for certain theoretical aspects of communications originally published by himself and referenced in the subject paper. The author of the second paper, which appeared in IEEE Trans. on Communication Technology, vol. COM-15, pp. 421-433, June 1967, makes a joint reply with one of his colleagues."
"As part of the MITRE Corporation's program for improvement of HF communication, the performance of coding and a means for evaluating coding equipment has been presented. It is, however, preferable to have a channel model upon which various error control techniques can be tried out as opposed to the direct approach, which is available only to the possessor of the data. This paper has been developed with the intention of presenting both the traditional channel modeling statistics (consecutive error distributions and gap distributions) and a set of new statistics against which modeling can be performed, The error statistics incurred in the transmission of high-frequency digital data at rates of from 600 to 2400 bit/s over various paths of the Eastern Test Range are presented herein. The data was transmitted on and parallel to the range using various modulation systems (modems). It is demonstrated that the errors occur in nonrandom fashion and in some cases are periodic. These error patterns (especially the periodic ones) present a new important problem for channel modeling of HF data From a heavily-used transequatorial circuit. While the basic approach is not new, the characteristics of the data are different from those previously reported and imply that channel performance is relatively independent of modulation technique. The error statistics presented herein should assist those, not having direct access to the data, who are interested in the problem of modeling this data which does not fit any known model (e.g. Gilbert, Berkovits, and Pareto[2]-[4]). Until such a model is available, this author will continue to report on error control performance using the direct simulation approach."
"This paper analyzes the multiple-access performance of a satellite communications network, in which each subscriber employs a hybrid frequency-time hopping random-access technique for the transmittal of binary information by means of a linear average power limited satellite repeater. The information is repetitively encoded into a number of binary chips. Individual mark and space chips are matched filter envelope detected and pairwise compared; the final binary decision is based upon a majority vote. The present analysis extends previous results by simultaneously taking into account RF phase cancellation effects at the satellite as well as up- and down-link noise. Some numerical results are presented using system parameters typical of a small subscriber net. The multiple-access performance of the frequency-time hopping system is (for the assumed parameters and a bit error rate of 10-5) found to be about 6.6 dB poorer than that of a comparable orthogonal multiple-access system."
"A model of the demodulation portion of a suppressedcarrier AM-baseband telemetry system, incorporating the effect of tape recorder flutter, is developed. The carriers necessary for demodulation are derived from a single pilot by translation to the appropriate frequencies. The analysis illustrates how flutter affects system performance and shows that the effect is similar for both SSB and DSB systems. Minimization of error in the demodulated signal requires that filters in the data channels and the pilot channel have linear phase characteristics with identical slopes. The Appendix outlines the mathematical description of flutter for both predetection and postdetection recording and illustrates that the model is appropriate for analyzing both cases if the peak flutter is small."
"In phase-coherent communication systems, where bandpass limiters precede the radio frequency (RF) carrier tracking loop, it is of interest to understand how the noisy RF carrier reference effects system performance. This paper characterizes a model probability distribution for the RF phase error and uses this to predict the performance of phase-shifted keyed and differentially coherent systems. The theory developed is directly applicable to the Mariner- and Pioneer-type communication systems. For these systems two physical situations are considered: 1) system performance when the phase error is constant over the duration of one bit, and 2) system performance when the phase error is allowed to vary over the duration of one bit."
"The effective orders of diversity were measured and compared for quadruple \"space-polarization\" and \"space-frequency' configurations over the 375-mile transhorizon tropospheric radio path between East Island, Puerto Rico, and Grand Turk Island, Grand Bahama Islands. For quadruple-diversity configurations and simultaneous operation over the same (four) radio paths, space-polarization diversity was found to be practically equivalent to dual diversity, while space-frequency diversity performance approached that of theoretical quadruple diversity. The difference in diversity performance between these two configurations is attributed to the relatively high cross-correlation coefficients between RF signals transmitted over spaced radio paths at the same frequency, compared to the same factor obtained from RF signals transmitted over the same paths but at two different frequencies."
"The power spectrum of a sinusoidal carrier which is frequency modulated by a normally distributed baseband signal may be expanded as a sum of weighted convolution terms. The significant parameter in the expansion, for an ideally bandlimited baseband spectrum, isR_{x}(0) = R_{\\dot{x}}(0)/fminfmax whereR_{\\dot{x}}(0)is the mean squared frequency deviation andfmin andfmax are the lower and upper frequency limits of the baseband spectrum. For small values ofR_{x}(0), the spectrum may be approximated using the baseband and the carrier. For largeR_{x}(0), the spectrum is asymptotically Gaussian. We have computed spectra on a digital computer for intermediate values ofR_{x}(0). In all computations, the spectra are approximated by ten convolution terms, defining the carrier component as the first term. Computations are forR_{x}(0) = 1, 2, 3, 4, 5for a rectangular baseband spectrum with no pre-emphasis and with CCIR pre-emphasis. The results are for typical multichannel FDMFM bands 12 to 36 kHz, 12 to 60 kHz, 12 to 156 kHz, and 12 to 252 kHz."
"Sharing of common resources by terrestrial and satellite relays creates potentially serious interference problems. Their influence and control depend on many concerted judgments. A broad summary of interference problems and some related parameters is given in matrix format to delineate the scope of interactive concern. Major interference problem categories include hybrid modes, crossbreed modes, implementation and administration, performance, and resource utilization. Parameters are categorized by earth stations, satellites, systems, radio relay, noise standards, and miscellaneous. The summary also aids in highlighting distinctive related features of the Bell Telephone System's domestic satellite proposal to the Federal Communication Commission in Docket 16495."
"This correspondence comments on a claimed misunderstanding that is purported to weaken the subject paper and was referenced from an earlier paper written by the commentator. The author of the subject paper, which appeared in IEEE Trans. on Communication Technology, vol. COM-15, pp. 467-470, June 1967, replies."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Summary form only given, as follows. The last sentence of the Summary for the above-named article should have read as follows: If, in addition, ω3 is large, (26) simplifies to (28). For original article see ibid., vol. COM-16, pp. 184-186, February 1968."
"This paper compared two methods of operation of receivers for pushbutton calling using voice frequency signaling. It compares the traditional system in which the tone receiver is connected for the full dialing interval with a system in which the receiver is connected only during the instant of tone generation when a pushbutton is operated. Not surprisingly, the results indicate that a smaller number of receivers is required in the latter case. Representations are made that the more complex station and central office detection equipment required in the latter case is less expensive than the additional receivers needed for the former with an acceptable grade of service."
"Reliability monitoring of digital pulse-code modulation (PCM) data in coherent transmission systems can be based upon online estimation of signal-to-noise ratio (SNR) at the receiver. Maximum likelihood SNR estimation is analyzed to determine the structure of the estimator and its ability to monitor error rates with a given degree of confidence. In particular, relationships between estimation confidence intervals, observation time, word error rates, and PCM word structure are developed."
"Complex telemetering, control, and supervisory systems ordinarily comprise a multitude of subsystems. Frequently, the entire system is controlled and/or maintained by two or more administrative entities. Thus, the interfaces between the various subsystems may involve administrative as well as electrical and mechanical considerations. It is evident that optimum functioning of the system requires that all subsystems must be compatible with and even complement one another. It is proposed that the key concept involved is that the administrative interfaces should be located at electrical or mechanical interfaces that can be defined by the least number of easily measured noncritical parameters."
"This paper considers differential phase-shift transmission over a bandlimited channel with specified phase and amplitude characteristics. The problem treated is the prediction of feasible data rates and corresponding error rates over such channels. An expression is given for the probability of error. This expression takes into account intersymbol and interchannel interference when differential phase-shift keying (DPSK) modulation is used. A distortion index which is a measure of phase error is defined, and the concept of phase opening is used which parallels the concept of eye opening commonly employed in the amplitude-shift keying (ASK) modulation. The analytical methods are applied to illustrate the effects of various parameters on the performance of a high data rate transmission system over a telephone line. Results indicate that for a carefully equalized line, a single-tone system should be used, and that higher order phase alphabets are to be preferred as the bit rate increases."
"A nonparametric detection scheme using only the relative ordering information of a set of samples is applied to the problem of signal discrimination. A class of codes called rank vector codes is presented and their application in this suboptimum discrimination scheme is discussed."
"In the past, various mathematical models have been developed for the digital troposcatter channel. Each model is amenable to the analysis of some types of systems but leads to mathematical difficulties in the analysis of others. When various transmission techniques are to be compared, a set of analyses which uses a different channel model for each system is not satisfactory unless it can be shown that the models are mathematically equivalent. In this paper, it is shown that two of the currently accepted models, the Kailath tapped delay line model and the Sunde model, are equivalent and thus yield results which may be legitimately compared. In addition, procedures are derived for mapping the parameters for each model into their equivalent parameters for the other."
"In this paper, a novel facsimile transmission system is proposed in which several pseudorandomly scanned pictures are superimposed on one another and transmitted through a common channel. The noise in the received pictures due to cross-interference and channel disturbances is discussed, and some results from computer simulation are presented."
"The maximum-likelihood (ML) receiver for binary data, additive Gaussian noise, and nearest-neighbor intersymbol interference (ISI) is shown to be a matched filter followed by a feedback loop and a tapped delay line. The loop and the tap connections contain nonlinear amplifiers, each saturating at the level of the ISI. This receiver minimizes the persymbol probability of error Pe; upper and lower bounds on Peare obtained. The mathematical receiver specifications for multilevel data and for extensive ISI are given; an approximate structure for the latter receiver is presented as an intuitive extension of the binary, limited ISI structure."
"A technique for monitoring performance of a pilottone phase-shift-keyed system over fading channels is treated. An important feature of this technique is that it requires no prior knowledge of the statistics of the additive noise or interference. The error probability is estimated without interrupting the data transmission or sending a special test signal. The measurement time required for a reliable estimate of error probability is determined for both Gaussian and lognormal additive noise. It is shown that the necessary measurement time depends strongly on the statistics of the noise, the order of diversity, and the actual error probability."
"In this paper, it is shown how to synthesize simple decoders for cyclic product codes. Cyclic product codes may be synthesized in the form of interlaced codes if the block lengths of the codes are relatively prime. In this case, the decoder can be synthesized in the form of a cascade of decoders, each of which operates on one of the subcodes forming the product code. The cascade decoders described differ from most of the decoders given in the coding literature in two major respects. First, they can be built. Second, instead of correcting all error patterns with weight less than some fixed value and no error patterns of greater weight, cascade decoders correct many error patterns beyond their guaranteed correction capability. Thus, the effective error-correction performance using a cascade decoder may be considerably beyond the usual Elias bound for product codes."
"In this paper the problem of measuring an unknown carrier phase shift of a transmitted sounding signal in a Gaussian noise channel is considered. Receivers which minimize the probability that phase error is larger than some value are considered. In some cases, this criterion leads to simple phase measurement techniques. When it does not, suboptimum receivers are considered. The main objective is to determine the effectiveness of the various measurement techniques by finding the cumulative probability distribution of phase error. In this way, three sounding signals are compared: an unmodulated carrier, a binary phase shift keyed (PSK) carrier, and a Gaussian pulse amplitude modulated carrier."
"The design, construction, deployment, and operating characteristics of experimental 80-Hz resonant seismic transmitterand receiver-transducers are discussed. A description is given of seismic-acoustic measurements and experiments involving 80-Hz signal transmissions 1) between surface sites in flat terrains, 2) between surface sites in mountainous terrains, 3) between locations on lake ice, and 4) from a surface site to locations underground inside a deep mine via earth, ice, and water media. Results of these experiments are evaluated with regard to the realization of \"hard line\" communications capabilities by seismic-acoustic and electrical means."
"A scheme for monitoring performance of a frequency-shift-keyed (FSK) transmission over a selectively fading channel with a nonfading component is treated. The design of the monitoring scheme is based heavily on the assumption that the received signal and additive noise are Gaussian. The monitoring requires no special test signal. An asymptotically unbiased estimate of error probability is obtained in terms of four measurements of the received signal. The measurement time required for a reliable estimate of error probability is determined."
"A criterion of minimum mean square error is used to specify the optimum, linear, time-invariant equalizer for a system in which data are transmitted by pulse amplitude modulation through a randomly selected channel. The results are applied to the case in which the received pulse is a synchronous demodulation of a passband pulse, with the phase of the demodulating oscillator a random variable and with a random time delay. The results can be applied to automatic equalization. During adjustment intervals, an automatic equalizer can use its channel measurement to specify a set of possible channel measurements instead of using it as a single exact measurement. The parameters of the automatic equalizer are then set in such a way that performance will be satisfactory over the \"smeared\" measurement set, reducing the sensitivity of the equalizer's performance to measurement error."
"The San Francisco Bay Area Rapid Transit District is building a new rapid transit system on which trains will operate automatically. Multipurpose channels and terminals will be used to monitor and control train operation, electrification, and support facilities. Incoming data and events are to be transmitted and processed digitally. System supervisory control signals, whether incoming or outgoing, will be transmitted in a binary coded form. Displays, control consoles, and voice communication sets are located in one central office where all system adjustments and decisions will normally originate. A computer in this office will operate all normal functions, initiate certain off-normal functions, perform auxiliary data and event recording, and run simulations as required. Requirements for security, reliability, flexibility, and speed are essentially alike for the different functions. This will enable use of a group of communication channels having uniform characteristics and terminations. Thus, functions may be reassigned to any channel without sacrifice of quality or security. Essential performance goals of the digital transmission system channels and terminals are specified. In addition, the specification requires tests of prototype terminals operating through noisy channels. The control computer will be used to monitor security, reliability, and margins of channels and terminal equipment, and to initiate or suggest channel reassignments. Capability of the computer programs to check data transmission effectiveness and to detect or correct errors may be expanded by further programming if experience should indicate a need."
"The concept of controlled acoustic coupling between thickness shear trapped energy resonators fabricated on a single quartz plate led to the development of the monolithic crystal filter. Recent work at the Bell Telephone Laboratories has resulted in the development of a three-port monolithic structure capable of providing the frequency-selective network required for an FM discriminator. This device is capable of providing good linearity over bandwidths ranging from about 0.005 percent to nearly 0.2 percent at center frequencies in the range from 5 MHz to 40 MHz. An analysis of the equivalent network is given, as well as the design procedure. Experimental results from a model having a 15MHz center frequency and 6-kHz linear bandwidth are discussed."
"This paper describes reliable solid-state stripline frequency multipliers that develop an output power in excess of 16 watts atSband. An overall efficiency of 46 percent is achieved for two cascaded doublers that have adequate varactor diode temperature derating to permit continuous operation at 90°C heat sink temperature. The stripline construction techniques use solid dielectric with 1/8-inch ground plane spacing permitting an extremely rugged compact package. The wide dynamic bandwidth of these devices permits the design of high linearity, wide-band, solid-state telemetry links. A technique is described that permits parallel operation of varactor diodes with inherently high isolation that ensures equal power sharing. The general design steps are also discussed. Data are presented that illustrate input-output power linearity, temperature stability, spurious signals, and bandwidth."
"A prolonged fadeout on a long obstacle-diffraction radio path was probably caused by persistent super-refractive conditions in the lower atmosphere. Ray tracings based upon the observed refractivity profiles at nearby radiosonde stations indicated that during the outage period the beam intersected several high ridges in front of the diffracting obstacle, greatly increasing transmission loss on the circuit. Angle diversity may produce some operational improvement."
"There is a need in many digital communication systems to estimate the current digital error rate of the receiver without the use of special transmissions and without interrupting traffic flow. Devices for performing this function have been termed performance monitor units (PMU). As an element of an adaptive communication system, the PMU could be used to determine when adaptive change is needed and, by comparing the error rates which would result from the various available choices of adaptation, to select the best change to be made at any time. This paper describes a PMU technique which is applicable to a wide class of digital modulation methods. Details are given for the cases of noncoherent frequency shift keying (FSK), differentially coherent phase shift keying (PSK), and coherent PSK receivers operating over a fading channel."
"A train control system has been evaluated in which a remote digital computer is used as the feedback element of a servomechanism. Telemetry signals are required between the train and computer and in the reverse direction, and engineering constraints are placed on the implementation. Signaling requirements are described, and experimental measurements of the electrical noise and ensuing analyses are presented. Equipment using phase and frequency modulation was built and tested, and a serial coding system was tested at typical railway properties. Measurements were made at diminishing power levels in order to determine margins of communication security; error rates approaching 1 in 105are anticipated for an operating train control system."
"A list of English language terms related to the handling of traffic, which are in use by manufacturers and users of communication systems, is provided. The list was prepared by the Nomenclature Committee of the International Teletraffic Congress and represents current usage rather than an adopted standard."
"The use of asynchronous adaptive sampling for multiplexing multichannel analog signals and data over a synchronous digital facility is examined. This method promises to provide an efficient and consistent way to digitally transmit voice, line-scanned graphics or text, and data. Buffer analysis, computer simulations, and laboratory prototypes are described. When multiplexing speech using extremal sampling, quality of about 32 000-bit companded pulse-code modulation (PCM) is achieved at an average bit rate of 13 000 bit/s per user. Idle spaces, up to 20 percent of the link capacity, can also be filled with indirect data. The potential demonstrated in the laboratory indicates that effort should be directed toward reducing system complexities so as to achieve an efficient, practical system."
"A new concept in telephone customer relations provides \"service packages\" instead of specifying hardware combinations. Three packages provide from 10 to 16 features for PBX customers. Two packages for Centrex service provide 10 and 14 features, respectively. All packages supply operator console positions in place of the traditional switchboard."
"A PAM-FM telemetry system has been analyzed when the various sensors or telemetering transducers each monitor a stationary Gaussian random process (GRP). Each GRP sensor output is band limited and instantaneously sampled at the optimum rate. This optimum frequency is the minimum sampling rate that causes no signal distortion due to aliasing in the frequency domain. A maximum number of sensors are accommodated with timedivision multiplexing so that the composite PAM multiplexed signal is also assumed to be a Gaussian random process. This PAM multiplexed signal is then considered to be the input modulating signal to an FM transmission system. A FORTRAN computer program has been used to obtain the resulting PAM-FM output spectral distributions for various mean square values of the PAM multiplexed signal."
"The time required to acquire synchronization of communication signals is a function of the loop filter characteristics and the nonlinear function used. The nonlinearity that minimizes the acquisition time is determined. A bound on the lock-on performance for arbitrary nonlinear functions is also obtained."
"The use of \"narrow-band\" noise filters in the combiner control circuits of a quadruple-diversity post-detection combiner was found to reduce the average bit-error rate by a factor of 4.6; while the median output signal-to-noise ratio was increased by 2 dB. The use of an \"enhanced-squelch\" control of the postdetection combiner increased the output voice-channel signal-to-noise ratio by 3 dB, and effectively eliminated a high percentage of the noise bursts in the voice channels."
"Basic statistical characteristics of the message-signal channel output signal-to-noise ratio (SNR) are discussed and measured. An explanation and experimental proof are given for the lack of close correlation between the measured median output SNR and the measured average bit-error rate. Also, it is shown that a much higher correlation exists between the fade-level distribution of the output SNR and the average bit-error rate. These results also explain the lack of close correlation between the median of the received RF signal and the average bit-error rate. The measured relationship between the average bit-error rate and the median output SNR was found to be considerably different from the calculated value for quadruple-diversity conditions; this difference is attributed to the fact that the actual distribution of the output SNR does not correspond to the theoretical distribution for quadruplediversity conditions for the FDM-FM type of transhorizon tropospheric radio link."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"A multiple frequency RC oscillator for use in TOUCHTONE® telephones has been made using tantalum films and beam lead silicon devices. The integrated design, equivalent to over 50 discrete components, requires a volume of about four hundredths of a cubic inch. All eight frequencies of the tone generator are initially tuned to 0.1 percent."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"The calculation of the error rate resulting from the detection of a binary FSK signal using an FM discriminator-lowpass filter detector is described for an FM signal undergoing nonselective fading in additive Gaussian noise. The results extend the error rate calculations of Schilling et al. [1], [2] which were performed for a nonfading channel. While the technique employed is quite general, examples considering Rayleigh fading and an alternating mark-space sequence are given. Following a CCIR recommendation for Rayleigh fading, the percentage of time that the signal envelope is below a minimum level is ignored, since in this case the circuit would be completely cut off or switched to a better path. Thus, the results also depend on the depth of fade or ratio of the minimum signal amplitude squared to the average carrier power. The use of diversity is studied, and the error rate for a discriminator using predetection combining diversity is found. In this case the possibility of infinitely deep fades is considered. The analysis is based on the work of Nelson[9], [14], who considered signal-to-noise ratio performance of an FM discriminator with an analog FM signal undergoing nonselective fading. Experimental results are shown to verify the theory."
"It is noted that the Spence function used in approximating the pulse transfer function has been tabulated by Ashour and Sabri."
"In a satellite time-division multiple-access (TDMA) system, the information is transmitted in bursts from the participating ground stations. In order to establish a time reference in each burst and to determine its origin, special code patterns called unique words (UW) are contained in the bursts. Reliable detection of the UW is the basis for keeping the stations in synchronism and providing high-quality communication links. The influence of miss and false detection of the UW on acquisition and the retention of a stable detection mode are investigated. The tolerable loss of information bursts provides criteria for the detector parameters, and for length and patterns of the UW codes. Practical results obtained during tests on an experimental system are compared with theory."
"The growth of telephone circuits with long propagation times, particularly those using synchronous satellite facilities, has renewed interest in the design of echo suppressors. The increase in delay intensifies potential degradations associated with the use of echo suppressors and demands echo suppressor performance far superior to that of older designs. Several organizations, including the Bell System, have designed long delay echo suppressors in the last few years and others are likely to become involved in the future as the growth of long delay facilities increases. Echo suppressors of different design will often be used in the same connection and must be compatible. To assure this compatibility a working party of the International Telephone and Telegraph Consultative Committee (CCITT) Study Group XV, with the cooperation of many of the organizations presently concerned, has recently completed a recommendation on the operating characteristics of long delay echo suppressors. This paper will present the operating characteristics of the newest Bell System echo suppressors, the reasons for them, and the relevant provisions of the CCITT working party recommendation. It is believed that all echo suppressors having these characteristics will perform sufficiently well and be compatible with any other so designed."
"For virtually any model of an unstable oscillator, at low signal-to-noise ratios, the maximum-likelihood ratio receiver is asymptotically quadratic. A quadratic receiver roughly corresponds to a weighted spectral analysis of the received signal. Two major models of unstable oscillators which seem reasonable for low data rate communication using orthogonal signals are considered. The first assumes that the signal is a stationary narrow-band Gaussian process. The second assumes that the oscillator phase is a random process. Optimal receivers are obtained for the first model and several examples of the second. These receivers are all noted for their inordinate degree of nonlinearity and complexity."
"The quantitative evaluation of the spectrum of anglemodulated waves is considered. Bounds are obtained by exploiting the similarity of a spectrum to a probability density and by making use of the known bounds on the tails of probability distributions. This approach applies to cases of modulation by Gaussian processes and some non-Gaussian processes. For a Gaussian modulation, a method is presented which achieves successively tighter results at the expense of increased computation."
"A 4800-bit/s digital data modem is operated over a simulated HF channel to determine the bit-error rate and error distributions of the received serial binary data stream. The measured error distributions for multipath-limited conditions are compared with back-to-back operation and theoretically determined random distributions, and are also used to evaluate forward acting error correction assuming half-rate random error-correcting block codes. This improvement in bit-error rate is compared with that measured by operating the modem at 2400 bit/s with dual in-band frequency diversity. The error distributions for back-to-back operation approach random except for small block lengths where the systematic error resulting from the frequency-differential PSK coding appears. The error distributions for multipath-limited operation deviate from random especially for small multipath delay spreads (low biterror rates) where the correlation bandwidth is large. Forward error correction produces larger improvement factors as the code block length is increased. However, the improvement factor barely exceeds two orders of magnitude for the largest block considered. In fact, the burst nature of the errors is such that improvement factors actually decrease in most cases for multipath-limited operation as the raw bit-error rate decreases. On the other hand, inband diversity is more effective for small multipath delay spreads than for large ones. However, forward error correction appears to offer more potential especially if the bit errors can be spread over a greater number of bits."
"In this paper we exhibit the effect of the data sequence on the reconstruction of the reference (pilot) tone for a quadrature phase-shift keying (Q-PSK) system. This is a binary digital transmission system in which the phase of one quadrature component of the carrier tone is keyed, while the phase of the other component is unkeyed. The integration of several previous keying intervals provides a reference phase. A scheme of this type, called Kathryn, has been built by General Atronics Corporation. We find that the performance of a Q-PSK system is limited by self-noise unless certain message sequences can be avoided. It is concluded that a Q-PSK system can be used effectively only in a decision-directed mode which is also analyzed."
"Developments in communications techniques and equipment provide the user with a wide choice of means and systems to obtain the desired quantity and quality of service. At the same time, increasing requirements for communications and the need for transmitting different kinds of information with higher speeds and reliability, a high degree of invulnerability and increased capacity have increased the complexity of systems and the quantity and types of equipment used in them. These factors, sometimes conflicting, have had an impact on communication system costs. The cost of different kinds of systems and equipment will be analyzed and general rules provided for cost estimating with due consideration of the above items."
"This paper presents a theoretical analysis of the performance of an orthogonal multiplexing data transmission scheme (parallel transmission scheme) subject to a number of degrading factors normally encountered by a practical operating system. The factors considered jointly are sampling time error, carrier phase offset, and nonideal phase characteristics of transmitting and receiving filters. Performance is measured by the familiar criterion of eye opening of the received data signal. A closed-form expression for the eye opening is obtained. It is shown that the lengthy nonlinear functions in the solution can be closely approximated by simple piecewise linear functions for parameter values of interest. The optimum settings of the sampling time and the carrier phase are determined for given filter phase distortion. Also, considering all factors, simple formulas are developed for computing interchannel interferences, intersymbol interference, and the resulting eye opening. Simple relationships between the eye opening and filter phase distortion are explored, and a concept of parametric eye is introduced to aid in filter design. An illustrative example is considered which shows that the impairment of the system performance is not excessive for a reasonable range of system design parameters."
"It is advantageous from power considerations to allow suppressed-carrier coherently-detected communications. Two methods for generating a coherent reference for the demodulation of a suppressed-carrier signal, namely, the squaring loop and the mathematically equivalent Costas loop, are analyzed, including at some points the effects of VCO noise and initial frequency detuning. The steady-state phase error probability distribution is presented, as is the expected time to first loss of lock in the first-order loop. Probabilities of error in coded or uncoded telemetry systems which use a squaring loop to generate a coherent subcarrier reference are investigated, allowing appropriate values of system parameters to be chosen by system designers."
"The resonant transfer process is extended to include greater generality. This leads to certain new applications. Baseband-to-baseband resonant transfer transmission has been used for a number of years in the area of time division switching. In addition, recently the more general concept of single-sideband-tosingle-sideband transmission, which would include the baseband-tobaseband case, has been used to obtain frequency division multiplexing. This technique allows time division switching and frequency division multiplexing to be combined into one common operation. Such an integrated system has been labeled integrated switching and multiplexing (ISAM). In this paper, the generality is carried one step further. The restriction that the input and output resonant transfer filters each cover a single-sideband frequency region has been removed. Instead, the filters are allowed to cover one or more such regions. This leads to the concept of lossless resonant transfer transmission between filters of unequal bandwidth. The reason for considering this is that several applications involving this type of operation have become apparent. Two of the more important of these applications have to do with the insertion of signaling information into the ISAM system and with establishing conferencing connections within the system. This new mode of resonant transfer transmission is rigorously analyzed and the applications discussed. These techniques are equally applicable to conventional basebandto-baseband time division switching."
"Theoretically predicted performance is compared with experimental data for received signal power and background noise power for daylight operation of an injection laser communication system."
"Design of the output buffer is one of the most important tasks in implementing an adaptive data compression system. Upon proper design of the buffer including such parameters as size, inputoutput data rates, and occupancy control, rests the overall compression efficiency and error performance of the system. The binomial distribution is used to derive an exact model for a synchronous buffer. The Poisson distribution, which provides a reasonable model for a high-speed asynchronous buffer, is shown to yield an error greater than 10 percent in required buffer length for synchronous buffers. Design requirements such as probabilities of overflow and underflow, buffer length, and average buffer fill are derived as functions of compression ratio φ and the ratio of input-output transmission ratesC. It is shown that the buffer queuing behavior is a function of the ratio\\rho = C/\\phi, as well asCand φ independently. The derived results indicate that restricting buffer overflow by increasing the buffer size is inefficient. Control is suggested in which the aperture of the compression algorithm is changed to control the buffer fill. The design requirements are determined for the zero-order predictor and the first-order interpolator with two degrees of freedom. Using the buffer equations derived and the compression ratio-aperture relationship, the design of a buffer is described. It is shown that doubling the aperture with a resultant doubling in rms error reduces the buffer probability of overflow by a factor of 100."
"The design, development, and testing of a burst synchronizer suitable for use in satellite time-division multipleaccess (TDMA) communication systems have been completed. It has been shown that submicrosecond guard times between bursts transmitted from different earth stations are practicable using state-of-the-art techniques. This paper presents theoretical analyses, descriptions of operation, and results of laboratory and field testing for the experimental burst synchronizer. Also presented are operational guard times for satellites in a variety of orbits."
"An important inherent advantage of communications via satellite is that large numbers of earth stations, separated by long distances, can communicate with each other simultaneously. Thus a satellite provides a multiple-access capability by nature of its physical location. Earth stations can be multiplexed at the satellite by means of a variety of techniques. One technique is to use time-division multiple-access (TDMA) for satellite multiplexing. Field tests using the INTELSAT I (Early Bird) satellite have shown that TDMA is a practical method for using the satellite multiple-access capability efficiently. This paper describes the experimental system and the results of the field tests."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"The basic properties of idle channel noise in a delta modulation(\\Delta M)system are determined. Analytical results are used to predict the noise waveform that the decoder will receive as well as the power level of the received noise. Experimental and computational results are in good agreement."
"A new approach to multiple-polarity coincidence schemes has led to a relatively simple detector that is superior when compared to other diversity detectors. The new detector is also nonparametric and operates well in general noise environments."
"A digital computer simulation of a noise-free frequency-shift keying (FSK) data system is described. This system consists of a frequency modulator, a send and receive bandpass filter, a limiter, and a frequency demodulator. The simulation is used to study the performance of the system in terms of telegraph distortion for various filters and demodulators. The accumulated spectral density of the modulated Q 9S test signal is examined. The modeling of the system and the processing of the test signal are discussed."
"Space diversity schemes are studied in terms of the relative outage probability for two-path propagation conditior.s. The outage is considered as due to thermal and intermodulation noise in FM-FDM transmission for both selection and combining schemes. The discussion includes common control systems where diversity conditions in several RF channels are controlled by information obtained at a single frequency."
"M-ary sequential tests are proposed and analyzed for amplitude-modulated signals that can be represented in a one-or two-dimensional signal space. Coherent detection in Gaussian noise has been assumed. Expressions for the probability of error and average sample size are found as a function of the threshold constants. The probability of error as a function of the average sample size for the sequential test is then compared to the optimum fixed sample test. For error rates in the range of 10-6, the average sample size of the sequential tests is about 2.5 times (4 dB) smaller than the sample size of the corresponding fixed sample tests. For comparison purposes the length of the binary sequential test will be 3.2 times (5.2 dB) smaller than the length of the corresponding binary fixed sample test. The sequential likelihood ratio test for amplitude-modulated signals in one dimension leads to a fixed sample test of a certain length to determine the two most likely signals and then a binary sequential test between these two signals to determine the most likely one. The binary sequential portion of the test incorporates the data obtained from the fixed portion of the test. For two-dimensional amplitude-modulated signals, the sequential test consists of a fixed sample test through a certain length and then two concurrent binary sequential tests on the two most likely amplitudes of each dimension."
"FM threshold extension is achieved in the phaselocked loop (PLL), the frequency-locked loop (FLL), or the frequency demodulator with feedback (FMFB). In this paper the FLL and PLL with respect to their defining equations are shown to be limiting forms of the FMFB."
"In this correspondence, error probabilities are calculated for binary DPSK communication through frequency-selective channels with predetection diversity matched filter reception. A method due to Bello and Nelin is used to carry out the calculations. Error probabilities are calculated for three different combinations of signaling pulse shape and channel frequency correlation function. One of these cases was investigated previously by Bello and Nelin, but some errors were made in their calculations. It is shown that for each of the three cases, an irreducible error probability exists that is proportional to the2Lpower of the relative data rate (whereLis the order of diversity) when the data rate is small. Also, when the results for the three cases are suitably compared, it is found that the error probabilities are more sensitive to the shape of the signaling pulse than to the shape of the channel frequency correlation function."
"Dual-diversity reception of 1- and 2-bit per baud differentially coherent phase-shift keyed signals over correlated Rayleigh fading channels is investigated. The mechanism that produces irreducible errors is signal distortion due to multiplicative noise. No additive noise is assumed to be present. As the fading correlation coefficient approaches unity or zero, the system error probability approaches that of single or dual independent diversity, respectively. For correlation as high as 0.7, nearly the entire improvement of dual independent diversity is obtained."
"The purpose of this paper is to introduce a multiple frequency shift keying spectral analysis receiver based on the fast Fourier transform. A novel decision-directed automatic frequency control (AFC) for use with the fast Fourier receiver is mentioned. Not only is the system to be described better than a truncated autocorrelation receiver, the analysis required is unorthodox, being based on the fact that the spectral coefficients of the incoming waveform are chi-square (central or noncentral) distributed. The fast Fourier receiver, under typical conditions, is 1.5 dB better than the autocorrelation receiver, is more versatile (e.g., tone spacing to multiples of1/THz, spectral window shaping very easy), easier to implement, less subject to signal-to-noise ratio degradation due to frequency offset, and provides fine frequency information to operate a decision-directed AFC."
"The problem of detection of signals of unknown frequency is analytically described and statistical decision theory is applied to determine the receiver that optimally uses past data to improve present performance. The theoretical peformance of this optimum adaptive receiver is compared with two nonadaptive receivers (the energy detector and an optimum nonadaptive receiver) and it is found that in some cases theoretical performance improvement may be worth the extra complexity of the adaptive receiver. Since such receivers have not been constructed, the results of tests on a feasibility model recently completed are also reported. These tests indicate that theoretical performance improvement is so difficult to attain practically, that adaptive receivers of signals of unknown frequency will probably not be economically useful for several years except in those cases where suitably fast generalpurpose computers are available."
"This paper concerns two important aspects of a multiple-access tradeoff study for an intra-South American satellite communication system: 1) the radio-frequency transmitter power in both the satellite and the earth stations (particularly the former which is at a preminm) needing to give acceptable telephone channel signal-to-noise ratio performance; 2) the bandwidth requirements in both the satellite and the earth stations in relation to the traffic capacity to be accommodated, i.e., the comparative economy in the use of the radio-frequency spectrum."
"This paper presents the noise loading analysis of a third-order nonlinear system characterized by Volterra kernels. The analysis is of practical interest since intermodulation distortion is often a limiting consideration in the design of solid-state long-haul broad-band frequency-division multiplexed transmission systems, and since speech on such systems is best represented by zero mean Gaussian noise. The analysis technique is amenable to digital computer calculation; as such, quantitive results are readily obtained. The analysis was applied to a single-stage transistor amplifier that was represented by a frequency-dependent nonlinear model. An excellent agreement between measured and calculated results was obtained. Portions of the program written for this example are readily applicable to the calculation of intermodulation distortion for any thirdorder nonlinear system (e.g., amplifier, repeater, or cascade of repeaters and cable sections) given the appropriate Volterra kernels."
"A telemetry data processing system based on crosscorrelation techniques and maximum-likelihood detection principles and designed to decode a special type of pulse-code modulated (PCM) signals, pulse-frequency modulation (PFM), is discussed. The decoding system employs a high-speed multiple-pass tape scanner to sequentially generate a set of correlation indices for each data word using the alphabet of possible data words. An on-line digital computer functions as the decision device to select the greatest of the indices as representing the transmitted data word. The data processing system combines analog-digital hybrid techniques for relatively high-speed signal processing and yet requires only a small digital computer memory."
"A digital communication network is proposed that would integrate present telephone services and switched mediumspeed data or facsimile channels into a single general-purpose system. Efficient use of the cable plant is made through decentralization of switching and centralized control. Subscribers are connected to voice or data concentrators, and switching between different digital trunks is done in standardized asynchronous switching units. A novel synchronization method prevents any information losses. In view of the optimization of such a system, a reappraisal of basic system characteristics has been undertaken. For example, a ternarybased code system is used together with dc-balanced binary transmission. This facilitates the construction of simple noncritical terminals and repeaters. To allow all sorts of digital speech processing, such as conferencing or digital filtering, a companding law is chosen such that a linear addition of compressed samples is easily realizable. A higher than usual sampling rate of 12 kHz was chosen for several reasons: 1) simple low-pass filters in the PAM voice-concentrator are possible; 2) it allows a potential voice bandwidth of 6 kHz with a corresponding increase in telephone quality; and 3) data or picture transmission speed is considerably increased."
"Presents revisions to equations 4, 5, 6 and 11 and formulas for the above-named article."
"A technique for radiating relatively broad-band pulses from narrow-band antennas is presented and analyzed. Good efficiency and bandwidth are obtained through the techniques of 1) forcing the antenna current to rise to the required level within the required time, and 2) feedback of stored energy from the high-Q antenna to the power supply during the pulse decay. A sample computation is made on a Loran-type pulse having a peak radiated power of 3 kW from a 3O0-foot umbrella antenna. This system has an antenna broad-banding transmitter efficiency product of over three times that of a system using the brute force technique of resistance loading."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Two parameters which are important in the theory and design of phase-lock loop systems are lock range and threshold. In this paper these parameters are carefully defined and the results of an experimental study to determine the effects of the modifiednthorder tanlock class of phase detector characteristics upon these parameters are presented. Lock range as a function of signal-to-noise ratio (SNR) is of particular interest. It is shown that when the SNR is high, the lock range of phase-lock systems with modifiednth-order tanlock phase detector characteristics exceeds that of systems employing a sinusoidal phase detector. However, as threshold is approached, the lock range of the tanlock systems falls off faster than the lock range of conventional sinusoidal systems. When compared to systems with sinusoidal phase detectors and normalized with respect to equivalent noise bandwidth the tanlock systems are shown to exhibit a higher threshold, but when normalized to lock range the tanlock systems have a slightly lower threshold. The series of curves which summarize the study may be used as an aid in the design of phase-lock loop systems."
"This paper describes methods for the simultaneous transmission of information signals and pseudonoise synchronization waveforms in a common bandwidth. For a relatively low level of the pseudonoise signal, a satisfactorily high synchronization accuracy is obtained by means of correlation techniques. Conversely, the information signal is detected with negligible interference due to the synchronization waveform. This permits a new approach to synchronization in speech systems and data transmission. The application to speech systems is quite straightforward. Emphasis is placed on design considerations for narrow-band systems with regard to output signal-to-noise ratio and acquisition performance. In data transmission the method is applied for bit and word synchronization. Thus, no restrictions are imposed on the transmitted data patterns and no inclusion of special synchronization words is required. In addition, the bandwidth of the system is not increased. The high accuracy required for synchronization in data systems is obtained here by a pseudoternary precoding of the transmitted data which is adapted to the spectral properties of the synchronization cross correlator. In this way the influence of the data signal on the received synchronization signal is minimized. Calculations of synchronization accuracy are given which include the effect of transmission noise."
"This paper describes a unique one-way measurement of dual inband frequency diversity improvement on an HF ionospheric path with frequency division multiplexed FSK modulation. The nondiversity and diversity binary error rates were obtained on the same path and frequencies at the same time. An average error rate improvement of an order of magnitude is shown by the cumulative distributions."
"In previous work the technique of error correction of digital data through the use of interleaved cyclic codes and a set of probability functions for the evaluation of error patterns have been presented. In Part I of this paper [1] the performance of a wide range of Bose-Chaudhuri-Hocquenghem (BCH) codes and PMsymbol codes was evaluated on representative portions of the data. Here a method (identified as tandem interleaved cyclic coding) will be presented which allows for a significant increase in error-rate improvement at a reduction in the delay time introduced into the channel. It is demonstrated that it is possible to get almost I00 percent error correction for delays under three seconds for all channel conditions measured."
"In previous work the technique of error correction of digital data through the use of interleaved cyclic codes and a set of probability functions for the evaluation of error patterns have been presented. In this paper the previous results will be extended to the class of Bose-Chaudhuri-Hocquenghem (BCH) codes and PMcodes. A set of simple equations will be presented for the description of an interleaved cyclic code and for its associated delay. The performance of interleaved cyclic codes will be demonstrated to be sufficient to correct all types of measured HF error patterns, and, using delay as a basis of comparison, it will be demonstrated that only the total bit interleaving is important in achieving error correction."
"This paper describes an end office tributary identifier which sends to a toll center the calling subscriber's directory number. It is arranged to interface with the Bell System's centralized automatic message accounting (CAMA) centers. The electronic identifier operates on either a terminal per line, a terminal per station, or mixed basis. In operating, it feeds an ac signal on the sleeve of the switch train and detects it at the line connector points using a matrix and electronic detectors."
"This paper describes a nonblocking processor-controlled digital time-division multiplex (TDM) switching system for six 24-channel digital TDM trunk groups and 48 analog lines. This system uses integrated circuit technology throughout and is capable of handling combined voice-data trunk groups required in military systems of the future. A stored program processor provides a flexible control unit whose control functions can be readily modified. Communication channel interfaces among the common control processor, TDM switch, and signaling units permit line scanning by the digital switching unit under stored program control, and remote control of the switching center by a processor located at another switching center within the network."
"The multichannel bit error probability for noncoherent FSK and differentially coherent PSK systems is obtained for a slow nonselective-fading multipath as a function of the multipath parameters and the order of diversity. The muitipath model involves three components consisting of two specular components and one scatter (diffuse) component. For diversity combining the multichannel noncoherent FSK receiver model employs square-law envelope addition and for DPSK employs linear baseband, postproduct-detection addition. These two diversity combining techniques are shown to be equivalent in terms of a DPSK noncoherent detector model that matches over two adjacent bits of the transmitted signal. As with Single-channel systems, the muitichannel DPSK performance is improved 3 dB over the multichannel FSK performance but otherwise equivalent. Results are given for muiltipath situations corresponding to a variety of differential path delays ranging from small to large delays and for mixed delays. Performance curves are presented for these multipath models and for several special cases representing simplified models."
"Suboptimal feedback communications systems incorporating simple digital processing are considered and compared with optimum feedback communications systems based on sequential decision techniques. It is found that some relatively simple procedures using counters and/or logic circuitry provide schemes which are only slightly inferior to the optimum techniques."
"It is shown that duobinary data system performance can be improved at least 0.7 dB in the presence of Gaussian noise by using a null zone detection procedure. Most nulls can be replaced by correct values using the analog signal redundancy information. Nulls which cannot be replaced using the analog redundancy are restored to their most probable values on the basis of the received sample levels."
"The reduction of multipath fading on line-of-sight microwave radio-relay links by dual space diversity is quantitatively described. One of the main results is a fade reduction factorFthat specifies the improvement provided by space diversity as a function of the vertical separation of the receiving antennas, frequency, path length, and the relative size of the antennas in the diversity pair. The results are based on a theoretical analysis of recent experimental data."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"The stability of a system described by annth order differential equationy^{(n)} + a_{n-1}y^{(n-1)} + . . . + a_{1}y + a_{0} = 0wherea_{i}=a_{i}(t, y, \\dot{y}, . . . , y^{(n-1)}), i=0, 1, . . . , n - 1, is considered. It is shown that if the roots of the characteristic equation of the system are always contained in a circle on the complex plane with center(-z, 0), z > 0, and radius Ω such that\\frac{z}{\\Omega} > 1 + nC_{[n/2]}where[n/2]= nearest integer\\geq n/2andnC_{m} = n!/m!(n-m)!, wherenandmare integers, then the system is uniformly asymptotically stable in the sense of Liapunov."
"A linear differential system is subject to a bounded control and a bounded disturbance. The controller receives the value of the state at a finite number of fixed sampling times. The cost is a convex or concave function of the state at a fixed final time. Given any control law, there is a maximum cost over all perturbations, the guaranteed performance for this control law. It is desired to find the minimum of this number over all control laws. Fenchel's theory of conjugate convex functions is used to set up an algorithm dual to the dynamic programming approach. This algorithm deals with the support functions of reachable sets, more easily determined than other descriptions of these sets. A discrete minimax principle is generally incorrect for problems of this class."
"While it is generally recognized that conditional expectation parameter estimates are statistically optimum for quadratic loss functions, the difficulties inherent in multidimensional numerical integration have largely prevented their use except in linear problems. In this paper it is shown that Monte Carlo methods can sometimes be used to obtain conditional expectation estimates for non-linear dynamic systems with an acceptable expenditure of computing time. The efficiency of the methods proposed results from the application of variance reduction techniques developed in this paper. The resulting algorithm is tested by an application to the optimal radar tracking and impact point prediction problem for a ballistic vehicle atmospheric reentry. Experimental results obtained with a hybrid analog-digital computer are included."
"A method is discussed for estimating the state of a linear dynamic system using noisy observations, when the input to the dynamic system and the observation errors are completely unknown except for bounds on their magnitude or energy. The state estimate is actually a set in state space rather than a single vector. The optimum estimate is the smallest calculable set which contains the unknown system state, but it is usually impractical to calculate this set. A recursive algorithm is developed which calculates a time-varying ellipsoid in state space that always contains the system's true state. Unfortunately the algorithm is still unproven in the sense that its performance has not yet been evaluated. The algorithm is closely related in structure but not in performance to the algorithm obtained when the system inputs and observation errors are white Gaussian processes. The algorithm development is motivated by the problem of tracking an evasive target, but the results have wider applications."
"A new method for the optimization of multilevel multivariable mechanical systems is presented. The method uses finite automata theory and algorithms for optimal control. The application of the algorithmic method to the optimal control of artificial human extremities is described."
"A stability criterion for feedback systems with a linear time-invariant forward loop and a periodically time-varying gain in the feedback loop is developed. As most recent frequency-domain stability criteria, it requires the existence of a multiplier having certain properties. A graphic technique is given to determine whether or not this multiplier exists. The proof of the criterion is based on the Floquet theory and the classical theory of Toeplitz forms. Examples to illustrate the criterion are included."
"As part of a continuing study of the usefulness of optimal control theory in practical control systems design, the problem of aligning the spin axis of a symmetric space body is considered. By employing the maximum principle a program is developed which is used to generate tradeoff curves between fuel consumption and control time. The availability of these typical tradeoff curves allows a designer to evaluate the performance of various feedback designs as shown by examples discussed in this paper."
"The class of systems considered in this paper includes, among others, the classical self-adjoint Sturm-Liouville problems of partial differential equations. The control term is an additive inhomogeneous term in the system equations, and the control problem is that of minimizing the weighted sum of the system error and control. New results include the derivation of a sufficient condition for the optimal control and existence and uniqueness theorems for the solution of the associated two-point boundary-value problem. These results are illustrated by an example."
"This paper discusses a class of optimal servo problems with random input and with bounded control. The problem is to find a controluwhich minimizes the mean-square error and to calculate this minimum. Such problems can often be reduced to solving a non-linear partial differential equation. Since this equation is not amenable to an exact solution, a method of successive approximation based on singular perturbation is used to obtain asymptotic solutions for a simple system. The method is applicable for the case of small input, small disturbance, and a relatively large bound on the controlu. Computational results for the mean-square error are shown, and the difficulty of this method is discussed."
"This paper presents a method for estimating the Laplace transform of a dynamic system, given its input and output in sampled-data form and corrupted by noise. The estimate is made by first estimating the coefficients of the pulse transfer function relating the input and output and then by converting these estimates to estimates of the Laplace-transform coefficients. Whenever Laplace-transform coefficients are estimated from sampled data, certain knowledge about the signals between the sampling instants must be known a priori or be assumed. In the proposed method this knowledge is used explicitly to relate the coefficients of the Laplace transform to those of theztransform. When this knowledge is correct the estimate Laplace-transform coefficients are asymptotically unbiased. As an illustration, the proposed method has been used to estimate the transfer function of a second-order dynamic system. In this example the variances of the estimates have been compared with the Cramer-Rao bound for unbiased estimates."
"This paper presents an analysis procedure for determining the continuous output of a pulsed continuous-time system with small nonlinearities. The analysis technique uses Volterra series representation and higher-dimensional modifiedztransforms. The method is compared and contrasted with the linear transform theory. Like the latter, it has certain advantages in treating cascaded and feedback systems, but the technique is more involved than in the linear method."
"The maximum likelihood estimate of a vector, given noisy observations of linear combinations of the vector's components, is a function of the covariance matrices of the noise. Often the matrices are not exactly known, and consequently the maximum likelihood estimate will be in error. An algorithm is developed for computing the covariances of the errors in the maximum likelihood estimate due to uncertainties in the noise covariance matrices. It is assumed that the uncertainties are small and can be described statistically."
"Eight different filtering schemes, one linear and seven nonlinear, are applied to two nonlinear scalar dynamic systems which are forced by additive noise. The nonlinear measurement made of the state is corrupted by further additive noise. The various filters, derived using a continuous formulation, are simulated on a digital computer and are compared on the basis of their estimation-error history. In addition to the comparison, one system/filter combination is used to demonstrate the effects of varying the variance of the noise, of mismatched parameters, and of sampled measurements."
"This paper considers a number of problems arising from the reconstruction of a continuous stochastic signal from its samples taken at periodically nonuniformly spaced intervals. The optimum mean-square error time varying reconstruction filter in the presence of jitter for the periodically varying sampling rate is determined. Expressions for the error arising from the use of a common class of simple but nonoptimum reconstruction filters are derived. The results may be useful when the relative merits of uniform and nonuniform sampling schemes are compared."
"Quadratic programming is applied to the statistical design of sampled-data feedback control systems with finite impulse response time. Given a fixed plant, quadratic programming is used to determine the compensator which minimizes the mean-square sampled error subject to a set of constraints. The system inputs are described in terms of sampled values from autocorrelation functions. A variety of constraints can be employed, including constraints which characterize the closed-loop response of the system to deterministic inputs."
"In many competitive situations it is necessary to track an enemy vehicle on the basis of noisy measurements received at a tracking station. In such situations it is often not appropriate to model the enemy vehicle as a dynamic system subject to white noise inputs since the enemy may be moving toward some specific objective which is unknown or partially unknown to the tracker. The tracker should be able to incorporate this fact in computing his optimal estimate of the vehicle's position. A simple model of these competitive situations is proposed in which the enemy is assumed to be governed by a system of linear differential equations controlled so as to move optimally toward a goal unknown to the tracker. The optimal estimation equations for the tracker are derived, and it is shown that the tracker can use a linear dynamic system to form the best estimate of the enemy position and his goal."
"A continuous-time algorithm for learning a stable bang-bang regulator is developed. It is assumed that a Liapunov functionV(x)is known such that\\dot{V}is negative definite for some bang-bang control The plant may be unstable since a simple condition (that a constant be large enough) on the learning algorithm guarantees stability of the closed-loop system during the learning phase. Derivative computation is required, but a significant time delay and an error are permissible in such computation."
"The advantages of a medium-speed two-stage up-down counter combined with special digital-to-analog (D-A) conversion are simplicity, better control modes, and elimination of operation limits. The disadvantages of a conventionalm-stage up-down counter with binary weight D-A conversion are also discussed, and a simple linear analysis of the up-down counter in conjunction with the servo system is presented."
"The optimal performance of linear pulse-frequency-modulated (PFM) control systems is investigated. A performance index consisting of a weighted sum of the quadratic terminal state error and fuel consumption is used. The direct synthesis of optimal PFM control systems is difficult, but upper and lower bounds on the optimal values of the performance index can be established without difficulty. These bounds are formed by the solutions of two auxiliary optimal control problems. When the upper and lower bounds are close to one another, PFM control may be replaced by a more easily implemented mode of control. Two additional modes-pulse-amplitude modulation and pulse-width modulation-also fall within these bounds."
"An application of Popov criterion generalizations for time-varying systems is considered in regard to the tolerance of small amounts of memoryless sector nonlinearities existent in any practical realization of a linear system. It is shown that such nonlinearities can be tolerated if they are sufficiently small, without disturbing system stability."
"It is shown that the circle criterion for linear systems containing a single time-varying element corresponds to a specialization of the Popov stability theory. The circle criteria are generalized using the Popov theory to give some measure of the degree of the system stability."
"The author breifly describes and commemorates two events: 1) a century from the death of Jean- Victor Poncelet, December 22, 1867, and 2) a century from the publication of J.C. Maxwell's paper \"On Governors\" in 1868."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"A proof of controllability of Jordan form state equations is presented in this paper. The proof is purely algebraic and is applicable to continuous as well as discrete state equations"
"A computationally efficient method of incorporating nonzero mean disturbances in linear discrete optimal regulator problems is combined with a least-squares method of parameter estimation to obtain an adaptive controller technique. This technique is successfully applied to the design of a pitch control system of a large flexible launch vehicle of the Saturn class."
"The linear system\\dot{x} = Ax +buwith the quadratic cost function\\int\\min{0}\\max{\\infty}(x'Hx+u^{2})dtis considered. The following equivalent conditions are shown to be necessary and sufficient for the existence of a solution to the optimization problem: 1) the existence of a positive definite solution for the algebraic matrix Riccati equation; 2) the existence of a vectorksuch that the matrixA-bk'is asymptotically stables and 3) the cancellations in the vector(sI-A)^{-1}bare only of stable factors."
"A simple method is proposed to reduce the computational requirements for evaluation of matrix polynomials. An example is given indicating its use in evaluating eAarising in the solution of linear differential equations."
"The problem of finding the optimum control function for the pulse frequency modulated (PFM) system is considered in this paper. In the PFM systems discussed here, the control function consists of a series of standard pulses. The optimization procedure consists of determining the polarity and positions of the pulses which make up the control function. The performance index is assumed to be a linear combination of the final values of the state variables. This does not exclude the problem of optimizing a system with respect to an integral, provided that the integrand is linear with respect to the state variables, but not necessarily with respect to the control function. In the PFM systems considered, the control function is fixed for a period of time following the initiation of each pulse. This fact precludes the direct application of the existing standard optimizing techniques. The Modified Maximum Principle is presented. It is based on Pontryagin's Maximum Principle and is applicable to open-loop systems with linear plants with fixed operating time. The Modified Maximum Principle is valid for systems with and without final value constraints on the state variables."
"This paper deals with the determination of suboptimal feedback laws for the control of linear time-varying systems with quadratic performance criteria. Easily implementable time functions are used to generate the required time-varying gains; free constant parameters in the control law description are chosen so as to minimize an \"averaged\" control cost. A simple example is included to illustrate the theory."
"A method for the design of linear time-invariant multivariable minimum sensitivity systems is presented. The method utilizes a quadratic form in the parameter-induced output errors as a performance index to be minimized, with the constraint that a prescribed nominal transfer function matrix be obtained. An essential ingredient in the procedure is the use of a comparison sensitivity matrix. Two advantages that follow from the use of the sensitivity matrix are: 1) Physical realization constraints on the compensators may be included in the design. 2) The computational aspects of the problem are relatively simple and may be carried out routinely using any parameter optimization algorithm. A nontrivial multivariable example illustrates the procedure. The design method may be viewed as the second part in a two-part procedure, where the first part is the determination of a desired nominal transfer function. A two-degree-of-freedom feedback structure is used to realize an optimum or desired nominal closed-loop transfer matrix, as well as a minimum in a sensitivity index."
"A graphic procedure is presented which allows the describing function technique to be extended to a single-loop feedback system with two nonlinearities. The graphic technique is very simple and immediately allows qualitative answers, or quantitative answers subject to the usual errors and restrictions of the describing function technique, to be obtained regarding the presence of limit cycles, regions of stability, instability, etc. The method essentially is as follows. A plot ofG_{1}(j\\omega) G_{2}(j_\\omega)in Fig. 1 vs. ω is made, and the point of intersection ofG_{1}(j\\omega) G_{2}(j\\omega)with the negative real axis is noted, for example, atG_{1}(j\\omega^{\\ast}) G_{2}(j\\omega^{\\ast}) =-1/\\Gamma, \\Gamma > 0. By plotting |G_{d_{1}}(A1)| vs. A1in the second quadrant, and|G_{d_{2}}(A_{2})|vs. A2in the fourth quadrant, it is possible to plot a curve (relating |G_{d_{1}}| vs. |G_{d_{1}}|) in the first quadrant. If this curve intersects|G_{d_{1}}| |G_{d_{2}}| = \\Gamma, a limit cycle exists in the system. If no intersection takes place, then no limit cycle exists in the system."
"The aim of the present paper is to describe a theoretical approach for eliminating hysteresis effects in rotary amplifiers; this is achieved by employing a dithering technique. To obtain feasible mathematical relationships, the hysteresis curve is represented by a loop which is very close to the actual characteristic. In developing the analytical relationships, three operation ranges are defined, thus enabling computation of the output mean value as a function of the dc input component and the sinusoidal dithering signal."
"The problem of designing an optimum distributed parameter system is considered. The canonical equations which are the necessary conditions for optimality are derived by applying the calculus of variation. For systems with a quadratic performance index and with its dynamics described by the diffusion, wave, or biharmonic equation, a method for solving the canonical equations is discussed."
"This paper derives, via Pontryagin's minimum principle, the invariance of the sensitivity of cost for optimal systems with respect to open-loop and closed-loop control law implementation when system parameters undergo small variations. The result obtained here is more general than that of Pagurek[1] and somewhat easier to apply than that of Witsenhausen.[2] The cost of the sensitivity vector is simply related to the gradient of the Hamiltonian function."
"The approximation of a nonlinear function of a random variable by a linear function is considered. An exponential function, which arises in problems such as random sampling and random parameter linear systems, is treated in detail. The values of the two parameters which define the linear function are given for various approximation criteria. The results are then applied to the Gaussian random variable case, with explicit results and numerical comparisons."
"Some generalization of Aizerman's conjecture for deterministic and stochastic stability of discrete systems is considered in this correspondence. Presented theorems are concerned with the verification of this conjecture."
"The following deals with the discrete-time linear minimum-variance filtering of nonstationary random processes. The dynamics of the signal and colored noise processes are represented by a combined random process model.[1] Some of the measurement elements contain additional white noise, others do not. Similar to the continuous-time case of Bryson and Johansen,[3] the white-noise-free measurements will be used to reduce the order of the Kalman filter,[1],[2]."
"A nonlinear, adaptive and recursive algorithm is derived for estimating an unknown probability density given a sequence of independent samples from the unknown density. An expansion of the unknown density in terms of a known and finite set of orthogonal functions is utilized and a Bayesian recursive learning procedure is derived for learning the coefficients of the expansion. The algorithm eliminates the need for quantization of the unknown parameter space. Adaptive estimators of population moments are also derived as known linear combinations of the recursively obtained expansion coefficients."
"Finite dimensional systems with time-varying feedback, which satisfy the conditions of the circle criterion for stability, are considered. A recent result giving a system theory description of positive real matrices is used to generate Liapunov functions."
"Trajectory control of a lifting reentry vehicle is considered. Control of the vehicle flight path is obtained by rolling the vehicle about the relative wind axis, thereby altering the direction of lift. A method is developed for determining the controller which minimizes the expected total number of roll maneuvers, plus a quadratic penalty imposed on the miss distance at the target. A numerical example is presented and the physical significance of the solution is explained."
"The concept of controllability for systems with time delay is discussed and sufficient conditions, displayed explicitly in terms of the known system coefficient matrices, are given. The notion of controllability for systems with delay(s) is then related to systems without delay."
"Several authors verified Aizerman's conjecture for certain types of third-order nonlinear systems. The purpose of this correspondence is to verify Aizerman's conjecture for a third-order system which has not been explicitly investigated."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"The author of the above [ibid., vol. AC-13. pp. 99-102, Feb. 1968] has called the following to the attention of the Editor. Equations are corrected as follows: on page 99 (the first equation in the abstract), page 100 equation (1) and equation (12), page 101 equation (16) and (25)."
"Using some theorems of the theory of nonlinear Volterra integral equations, a sufficient condition is derived for the boundedness of response of a class of nonlinear control systems. As a consequence, an estimate is given for the upper bound of the response of systems subjected to amplitude limited signals."
"An algorithm for removing uncontrollable (unobservable) state variables from time-varying systems is presented. The algorithm makes use of the time-variable controllability (observability) matrix which is augmented with the identity matrix and transformed into Hermite normal form. In this new set of coordinates, the uncontrollable (unobservable) state variables are easily identified and removed. An example is given."
"The solution for a class of stochastic pursuit-evasion differential games between two linear dynamic systems is given. This class includes the classical interception game in Euclidean space. The performance index which is optimized is quadratic, and one of the two players has imperfect (noisy) knowledge of the states of the two systems. The \"certainty-equivalence principle' or, equivalently, the technique of separating the estimator and the controller which characterizes the standard stochastic control problem is shown to be applicable to this class of differential games."
"A direct method is developed for the solution of a class of minimum energy control problems. The method is applicable to linear and nonlinear, stationary and time-varying systems described by input-output functional relations. It is based on the expansion of the kernels of the system and of the input, the control, in terms of a set of functions that are characteristic of the kernels. The optimality is measured by the integral of a positive definite quadratic form of the input over the control time interval. The characteristic expansions reduce the optimal control problem to that of solving a finite set of algebraic equations."
"A method is proposed to obtain a model of a dynamic system with a state vector of high dimension. The model is derived by \"aggregating\" the original system state vector into a lower-dimensional vector. Some properties of the aggregation method are investigated in the paper. The concept of aggregation, a generalization of that of projection, is related to that of state vector partition and is useful not only in building a model of reduced dimension, but also in unifying several topics in the control theory such as regulators with incomplete state feedback, characteristic value computations, model controls, and bounds on the solution of the matrix Riccati equations, etc. Using the quantitative definition of weak coupling proposed by Milne, a suboptimal control policy for the weakly coupled system is derived. Questions of performance degradation and of stability of such suboptimally controlled systems are also answered in the paper."
"Inequalities are derived which demonstrate the reduction of sensitivity to plant-parameter variations of closed-loop linear optimal systems (as compared to nominally equivalent open-loop systems) according to a particular measure of sensitivity. The shortcomings of some other measures of sensitivity are discussed and illustrated in numerical examples. Numerical results for the sensitivity comparison of a first-order system and a third-order pitch-axis control system are given."
"The first part of this paper presents a new measure of sensitivity specifically applicable to the realization of a linear discrete system on a digital computer. It is also shown that the sensitivity of the eigenvalues to parameter inaccuracies in the realization depends strongly on the choice of state variables. From these considerations, a realization is obtained which is \"best\" for a large class of systems of interest with regard to minimizing storage requirements, arithmetic operations, parameter accuracy, and eigenvalue sensitivity. The second half of the paper considers the very practical problem of determining the number of bits accuracy required in the computer-stored parameters of the system to achieve satisfactory performance. For the realization found to be a best compromise, equations are obtained for determining these bit requirements. Examples are given showing the application of this realization to the computer implementation of a discrete filter, and a comparison is given to other possible realizations."
"Fixed step size random search for minimization of functions of several parameters is described and compared with the fixed step size gradient method for a particular surface. A theoretical technique, using the optimum step size at each step, is analyzed. A practical adaptive step size random search algorithm is then proposed, and experimental experience is reported that shows the superiority of random search over other methods for sufficiently high dimension."
"A transformation is given here which takes a given system from any arbitrary form to the Schwarz canonical form. In particular, when the system is in phase-variable form, such a transformation reduces to the one obtained by Chen and Chu."
"This paper considers the problem of nonlinear filtering and interpolation of random input in the presence of noise. A special class of nonlinear systems is used which is composed of a linear system in parallel with a zero-memory nonlinearity (ZNL) preceded by a variable delay. The optimization problem is simplified if the inputs are restricted to be of the separable class. The optimum system of this class is shown to be implemented in terms of the optimum linear filter and the optimum ZNL filter. Furthermore, a suboptimal scheme can also be constructed by adding a ZNL to the optimum linear system which improves its performance. The dependence of the error improvement on the delay is also considered, and the best choice of the delay is illustrated by an example."
"A linear filter using sample extrapolation and averaging is derived and tested. Extensions to include correlated observation noise and incomplete measurement are discussed. The filter is easily implemented for low-order linear plants but is inferior to the Kalman filter for all but the simplest cases."
"Methods for estimating the sampled power spectral density of a stochastic process in terms of a rational function ofzhave been presented in the literature. A method based on the maximum likelihood criterion for Gaussian processes leads to the minimum residual criterion.[1],[2]This correspondence points out the relationship of the minimum residual criterion to optimum prediction filters and justifies the use of the criterion even for non-Gaussian processes."
"Conditions for asymptotic stability of annth order linear time-invariant differential equation of a particular type with matrix coefficients are shown to be similar to those obtained through the Routh-Hurwitz inequalities, but wherein real numbers and positivity are replaced by the matrix coefficients and positive definiteness."
"The definition of a hyperstable system according to Popov is given a network theoretic interpretation, and proofs are presented outlining the connection between passive and hyperstable systems."
"Sufficient conditions are presented for guaranteed convergence of the \"quantizing method\" system identification process, along with a comparison of the times of identification using the quantizing method and the fundamental method. This supplements a paper by Nagumo and Noda."
"The problem of establishing a least upper bound on errors arising in hybrid control systems due to quantization of system variables is considered. A closed-form solution for the least upper bound is given for systems, which, with the exception of quantization, are stationary, linear, and stable. This result is based on the utilization of a state space representation of the system under consideration."
"A procedure for reducing the decision dimensionality in a dynamic programming calculation is presented for multi-stage decision processes for which the dimension of the decision vector is greater than the dimension of the state vector. This procedure facilitates the numerical and analytical investigations of this class of optimization problems."
"This paper studies representations in the frequency domain as well as in the time domain of linear time-invariant composite systems. Given two systems which are completely characterized by their transfer-function matrices, or equivalently, whose state equation representations are controllable and observable, the question is: Under what conditions will the transfer-function matrix of a composite connection of these two systems characterize the composite system completely, or equivalently, when will the state equation of the composite system be controllable and observable? The following results are presented. 1) The characteristic polynomial of a rational function matrix is introduced. If a state equation representation of a system is controllable and observable, then the characteristic polynomial of the A matrix is equal to the characteristic polynomial of the transfer-function matrix of the system. 2) The controllability of any composite system is a property of the transfer-function matrices of its subsystems. 3) The necessary and sufficient conditions are stated explicitly in terms of transfer-function matrices and controllability λ subspaces which are uniquely determined by transfer-function matrices. These conditions are obtained based on the results of Chen and Desoer."
"In the past a great deal of attention has been given to discrete-time systems containing either pulse-width or pulse-amplitude modulators. This paper presents general necessary conditions that a sequence of pulse amplitudes and pulse widths must satisfy to minimize a function of the states at the sampling instants plus a function of the states between the sampling instants. These necessary conditions will also apply to systems with either pulse-amplitude or pulse-width modulation done by simply deleting various parts of the general conditions. The results of this paper are applicable to the design of discrete controllers."
"A technique is devised for synthesizing nonlinear controls that optimally shape nominal trajectories with respect to state-variable estimation errors propagating along the nominal trajectory. Both the nonlinear process and the observations upon which the estimation is based are corrupted by Gaussian white noise. A numerical example is presented that demonstrates the pronounced coupling effect of the nominal trajectory upon the propagation of state-variable estimation errors. Numerous practical implications of this work are cited."
"A transformation matrix is given which transforms the system represented by\\dot{y}=BywhereBis in Schwarz canonical form to the system\\dot{Z}=JZwhereJis in Jordan canonical form."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"The design of optimal linear regulators with incomplete state feedback has been reported in a recent paper [1]. This correspondence deals with the practical utility of such controllers and the difficulties encountered in designing higher order systems."
"This correspondence indicates that the investigation of the sensitivity limit cycle of nonlinear systems with a stable limit cycle is reduced to investigating the solution of the homogeneous part of the sensitivity equations. Contrary to the linear systems, the existence of stable limit cycle in nonlinear systems does not exclude the possibility of the sensitivity stable limit cycle. Theorems are stated giving the necessary and sufficient conditions for existence of the stable limit cycle of sensitivity."
"This paper presents the theory and the computational algorithm required to determine the piecewise-constant feedback gains for the optimal control of a linear system with quadratic performance index over a finite control interval[t_{0} T]. A third order example illustrates the relation of the piecewise-constant gains to the truly optimal time-varying gains."
"The optimal control for a high-order model of the plant is approximated by some functions obtained from two low-order models, the second being the sensitivity model of the first. The resuiting system is optimally sensitive with respect to the change of model order. The method is aimed at improving the \"low-order design\" in critical cases when the plant order is too high for the iterative optimization procedures to be practical."
"This correspondence describes the formulation and solution of a nonlinear, non-Gaussian stochastic control problem. Dynamic programming is used to obtain the solution to the problem of optimally controlling a robot, equipped with sensors, that is operating in an unknown environment."
"A computationally oriented transform technique for the analysis of time-varying linear systems involving both discrete-time (i.e., sampled-data) variables and continuous-time variables is presented in this paper. Finite-dimensional representations are described for the various linear operators involved, and methods for obtaining singular-value decompositions of these operators are given. The three parts of the singular-value decomposition are analogous to the direct transform, transfer function, and inverse transform of Laplace and Fourier transforms, and offer analogous insights into analysis and synthesis problems. An example is included to illustrate the analysis procedures."
"A procedure is presented for the suppression of limit-cycle oscillations in unity-feedback control systems which have an on-off type nonlinearity in cascade with a linear transfer function. The procedure is based on the introduction of a minor loop into the system. This produces a high-frequency periodic signal at the input of the nonlinearity, and thereby limit-cycle oscillations are suppressed."
"This correspondence presents the results of the application of the matrix inversion lemma to the Kalman filter equation. This operation eliminates the inversion process in the Kalman filter and enables one to sequentially compute the optimum estimate of the state without the use of the inversion process."
"A simpler stability criterion is presented here that is useful for predicting limit cycles in a class of second-order non-linear control systems. The criterion is developed simply from a study of the roots of the system characteristic equation. It is shown that the limit cycle predicted by this criterion is stable if the slope of thea/b^{2}-locus at the intersection point is positive, while a negative slope indicates an unstable limit cycle."
"Differential equations for determining the dynamic and steady-state effects of a particular class of disturbances on the error in the estimate of the state vector of a stochastic linear dynamic system are obtained. For the problem of evaluating near optimal filter performance, the technique permits the performance degradation due to the deletion of certain state vector components in the design of a Kalman filter to be obtained."
"This paper presents the derivation and evaluation of algorithms for error analysis, large and small scale sensitivity of optimum filtering and fixed interval smoothing solutions to linear estimation problems. Model errors as well as ignorance of plant and measurement noise covariance matrices are considered. Results are presented for a simple scalar problem and for the problem of state estimation in an inertial navigation system operating in the free inertial mode."
"Deflections of the vertical introduce errors into terrestrial inertial navigation systems. In many situations, these errors prove to be intolerable. However, if vertical deflection data are available prior to a mission, this information can in principle be used to reduce the navigation system errors. It is assumed that measurements of vertical deflections plus noise are available at equally spaced points on a square grid. The accuracy to which the Schuler loop errors can be controlled, given this set of measurements, is bounded by the accuracy to which the uncontrolled Schuler loop errors can be estimated given the same set of measurements. Thus lower bounds on the accuracy of the compensated system may be established by obtaining the optimal error covariances of the equivalent estimation problem. It is shown that the estimation problem can be modeled as a linear smoothing problem if the vehicle travels at a constant heading and at a constant velocity. The appropriate error covariances are found using the known techniques of optimal linear estimation theory, Kalman filtering and smoothing, both at and between the grid points."
"The optimal, adaptive control of linear discrete systems with constant but imprecisely known gain is considered. It is assumed that a priori, Gaussian distribution functions are available for the unknown gain and for any random disturbances or observation error. The identification and control aspects are separated to the extent that the identification of the system gain is formulated as an optimal estimation problem; while selection of the optimal control policy is accomplished by minimization of the expected value of a quadratic cost functional, conditioned up on the information available at the time of control application and subject to the constraints imposed by the identification techniques. The interaction between identification and control is explicitly shown by the form of these constraints. The effects of this interaction are examined by considering a simple, first order system and the average performance of the optimal adaptive control law is compared to that of the optimal deterministic control."
"Three distinct but related results are obtained. First, an iterative method is derived for obtaining the solution of optimal control problems for Markov chains. The method usually converges much faster, and requires less computer storage space, than the methods of Howard or Eaton and Zadeh. Second, nonlinear finite difference equations, which \"approximate\" the nonlinear degenerate elliptic equation (2) arising out of the stochastic optimization problem (1), are found. The difference equations, and their solution, may have a meaning for the control problem even when it cannot be proved that (2) has a solution. The iterative methods for the iterative solution of these nonlinear systems are discussed and compared. Both converge to the solution, provided that the difference equations were derived using the method introduced in the paper; one, new to this paper, often much faster than the other (Theorem 2). In fact, the typical time required for the numerical solution is about the time required for a related linear problem. The method of obtaining the difference equations, and the proof of convergence of the associated iterative procedures, are illustrated by a detailed example. Finally, specific numerical results for a \"minimum average time\" type of optimization problem are presented and discussed."
"In this paper, analytical expressions are obtained for performance cost functions which describe the behavior of a second-order nonlinear control system during an on-off limit cycle. The cost functions are 1) fuel consumption per second (and the associated percent on-time and control pulse width); 2) average error; 3) peak-to-peak, limit-cycle amplitude; and 4) limit-cycle period. Each of these functions is expressed in terms of the amplitudes of the limit-cycle switch states\\theta_{\\delta}and\\theta_{\\delta}The results, which are given for a stable and an unstable plant, do not depend upon a specified control law."
"Given a system with uncertain parameters, a performance index, and a controller structure, it is sometimes appropriate to determine the controller parameters by minimaximizing the performance index. In many of the cases where such a controller is too pessimistic it is appropriate to minimaximize a performance sensitivity. Some properties of these two types of controllers are presented. Since the minimax problems that arise do not in general have a saddle point, they must be solved by an iterative or search procedure. A new algorithm for solving algebraic minimax problems with or without a saddle point is presented and proved to converge. The rate of convergence is discussed. The algorithm is applied to the design of a controller for a string of three vehicles."
"An equivalent relationship has been established between the problems of convergence or zero-input convergence of nonlinear systems and the problem of zero-input convergence of linear systems. A special feature is that the formulation of the problem and the analysis are done directly on a component-connection model instead of the usual input-output state model. As a consequence, the results obtained can be easily interpreted in terms of given practical systems."
"The inverse system introduced by Brockett is generalized to the time-variable case. This inverse is utilized to solve the problem of generating an input to a linear system so as to produce a prescribed output. A new reduced form for an inverse system is also presented."
"An iterative algorithm for the identification of single-input single-output linear stationary discrete systems is developed using the method of quasilinearization. The resulting procedure is similar to mode 1 of the method of Steiglitz and McBride but has the advantage of the quadratic convergence property of quasilineariza-tion. It is shown that this algorithm becomes mode 1 if the measured plant output is used in the calculations in place of the model output. Consequently, the two methods are extremely compatible and it is a simple matter to combine them in a single program, which generates its own initial estimates has the wide range of convergence of mode 1, and possesses the quadratic convergence property of quasilineariza-tion for final convergence to a solution. The method also permits the estimation of plant initial conditions in those cases where they must be considered. Results of a few numerical applications are discussed."
"In this paper the relation between the variance of the impulsive response samples and the sampling time is analyzed with respect to the identification of a linear time-invariant system with one input and one output. The study is made under the hypothesis that only the output data are corrupted by measurement errors. The main result of this paper is a proof that the variance of the impulsive response samples diverges when the sampling time tends toward zero."
"This paper discusses the mean-square performance of a first order random sampled-data system with feedback, where the sampling times constitute a stationary point process, with independent and identically distributed sampling intervals. The paper presents some new results for the cases of periodic sampling, periodic sampling with skips, and Poisson sampling."
"An optimal control problem for a linear regulator with constant external disturbance is formulated. It is shown that, for a suitably selected quadratic-type performance index, the optimal control is not an explicit function of the external disturbance. Moreover, the optimal control can be synthesized as a time-invariant linear function of the state plus the first time integral of a certain other time-invariant linear function of the state."
"A frequency domain stability criterion is given for a feedback system whose loop consists of an instantaneous nonlinear amplifier, a linear dynamical system, and a transducer with backlash. A class of input signals is considered that essentially consists of constant-amplitude functions and exponentially decaying functions. Separate considerations are given to the case when the system includes a saturating instantaneous amplifier and the case when the nonlinear amplifier is not a saturating type. In both cases a single criterion guarantees the stability. A few examples are given to illustrate the proposed stability criterion. Finally it is shown that the stability criterion can be applied to a large class of autonomous non-linear feedback systems containing a nonlinearity with dead-zone or with hysteresis and dead-zone."
"The global asymptotic stability of third-order relay control systems with real, nonpositive eigenvalues is related to conditions necessary for the existence of periodic solutions of such systems. By application of Popov's theorem it is shown that conditions which guarantee that a system will have no symmetric periodic solutions are also sufficient to insure the absolute stability of the origin. This result allows a relay system to be designed by choosing the switching function subject to the constraint that the switching plane avoid a certain easily defined region of state space."
"In this paper the approximation of a given real time function over(0, \\infty)by a linear combination of a given numbernof exponentials is considered, such that the integrated squared error is minimized over both thencoefficients of the linear combination and thenexponents used. The usual necessary condition for stationarity of the integrated squared error leads to a set of2nsimultaneous equations, nonlinear in the exponents. This condition is interpreted in the geometric language of abstract vector spaces, and an equivalent condition involving only the exponents, with the coefficients suppressed, is developed. It is next indicated how this latter condition can be applied to signals which are not known analytically, but only, for example, as voltages recorded on magnetic tape, or as a table of sampled values. The condition still in effect requires solution of nonlinear algebraic equations, and a linear iterative method is proposed for this purpose. Finally, the procedure is illustrated with a simple example."
"An off-axis circle criterion is stated in this paper as a sufficient condition for the stability of a nonlinear feedback system with a single monotonic nonlinearity. The criterion provides a geometric method for determining a sector(K_{1} < [F(y_{1})-F(y_{2})]/ (y_{1}-y_{2}) < K_{2})with in which the nonlinearity may lie for asymptotic stability. The relation between the criterion stated and the well-known Popov criterion and the circle criterion for time-varying systems is also discussed. Two examples are included to clarify various aspects of the criterion and its relation to existing results."
"A scheme to identify deterministic linear systems from a relatively small amount of input and output data is described. Hermite functions are utilized for a modulating function which has been introduced by Loeb and Cahen. All modulating functions and their derivatives necessary to higher order systems are uniformly constructed from higher order Hermite functions."
"In this correspondence, a quadratic form representation of a polynomial of several variables is given. This representation is utilized to express a sufficient condition for positive definiteness of any real polynomial of severe variables in terms of the positive definiteness of a real constant matrix, directly obtainable from the coefficients of the polynomial under consideration. Examples are included to illustrate the scope of the procedure."
"The eigenvalues of the system matrix are used to construct a matrix which is a transformation in state space between two most frequently used canonical forms."
"The eigenvalues of the system matrix are used to construct a matrix which is a transformation in state space between two most frequently used canonical forms."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"This correspondence deals with terminal sensitivity of linear dynamical systems. Specifically, it is shown here that, for a class of linear time invariant open-loop systems, it is not possible to achieve the insensitivity of terminal conditions when the number of plant-parameters is not smaller than the number of control variables."
"This correspondence presents results concerning the mean-square behavior at sampling times of a first-order sampled data system with feedback, where the sampling times constitute a stationary point process with independent and identically distributed sampling intervals."
"Proportional navigation has frequently been used for the guidance of interceptor missiles. When such missiles are operated outside the atmosphere, since a velocity change can be accomplished only by the expenditure of propellant, it is important that any path correction be achieved efficiently. In this correspondence, it is shown that the addition of an appropriate bias term to a proportional navigation guidance equation allows an interceptor missile to attain an efficiency which can be made to approach that of an optimum system."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"The paper is concerned with the application of multivariate regression analysis to the reduction of multivariable control problems and to the identification of linear and nonlinear time-varying processes. Reduction is performed by grouping the input and output variables of a many variable process into a small number of groups. Control is exercised in terms of a few variables, each representing such a group. Regression is further applied to the dynamic identification of reduced or unreduced linear and nonlinear multivariable processes where no a priori information of the dynamic characteristics is available. Both reduction and identification may be performed on-line. The resulting techniques are conveniently incorporated in control procedures based on dynamic programming and on predictive adaptation."
"In this paper some properties of the generalized matrix inverse are discussed leading up to two analog techniques for its computation. Analog procedures are given for the computation of the unique vectorxof least Euclidean norm that minimizes the Euclidean norm of the error vectorAx - b."
"A derivation is given, using the reflection principle, of the distribution of the value and location of the maximum on an interval of Brownian motion with known end-point values. The density of the location is infinite at the end point of greater value and decreases monotonically to zero at the other. A procedure is briefly discussed for using the distribution in a pointwise sequential search for the location of the maximum."
"A new variant of observability is introduced, minimal observability, which has an interesting practical meaning. This concept is then exploited to obtain a simple and completely specified canonical form for multioutput nonautonomous analytic systems."
"The purpose of this paper is to establish sufficient conditions for absolute stability of a class of control system containing a single nonlinear function of two feedback state variables. In particular, the nonlinearity consists of the product of two linear or non-linear elements, where each element is a function of a different state variable. A frequency-domain stability criterion is obtained which can be verified easily. An example of nonlinear differential equations and an example of a hydraulic system are given to show the practical applications of the results."
"Several authors have discussed the problem of statistically estimating the pulse transfer function of a linear system, or what is equivalent, estimating the vector normal to a hyperplane. Certain authors have raised objections to the least-squares estimator commonly proposed for this problem. This correspondence points out that these objections pertain not so much to the least-squares method per se as they do to an unfortunate choice of normalization."
"An algorithm is described which employs the method of Newton-Raphson iteration in order to compute the root loci of a linear system. The technique differs widely in several aspects from those previously reported, and thereby significant gains in speed, accuracy, and versatility have been achieved. A FORTRAN program which utilizes the algorithm has been written, and some of its features are pointed out. An example of the use of this program is given."
"Linear and nonlinear optimal filters with limited memory length are developed. The filter output is the conditional probability density function and, in the linear Gaussian case, is the conditional mean and covariance matrix where the conditioning is only on a fixed amount of most recent data. This is related to maximum-likelihood least-squares estimation. These filters have application in problems where standard filters diverge due to dynamical model errors. This is demonstrated via numerical simulations."
"A forced nonlinear feedback system is studied. A condition on the bounds on the input and linear plant zero-input response is given which guarantees that the error is bounded by a known quantity. The condition uses a frequency-domain inequality."
"Finite regions of attraction of the origin are obtained for feedback systems involving a time-varying nonlinear feedback element. One type of region is found for cases in which the nonlinearity is well known in some given neighborhood of the origin, and another is determined for the more general cases in which the nonlinearity is only known to satisfy certain \"sector conditions\" in a similar given neighborhood."
"This correspondence considers the on-line parameter identification of a forced linear discrete-time dynamic system from a sequence of white-noise-corrupted output measurements. In contrast to other approaches, the proposed stochastic approximation algorithm does not require knowledge of the noise statistics and converges to the true value of the parameters in the mean-square sense. If the input measurements are also corrupted with white noise, an additional term depending on the variance of the noise is required."
"The potential use of multiprocessing computers for possible improvement of dynamic programming solutions is considered. In particular, the dimensionality restrictions and the search in case of a multidimensional control vector are discussed. While the dimension of a practically solvable problem would be increased only slightly, a considerable improvement could be expected in case of a parallel search for a multidimensional control vector."
"This paper presents the derivation of the dynamical equations of a second-order filter which estimates the states of a non-linear plant on the basis of discrete noisy measurements. The filter equations contain terms involving the second-order partial derivatives of the plant and output equations. Simulation results are presented which yield a comparison of the performance of the first-versus the second-order filter when applied to a nonlinear third-order system. The results indicate that the inclusion of second-order terms can markedly improve the filter performance."
"The objective of this paper is to present a frequency-domain stability criterion for pulse-width-modulated feedback systems. The criterion states that 1) if the Nyquist locus of the pulse transfer function of the linear plant does not intersect or encircle a certain disk in the complex plane, then the system is l2bounded input-bounded output stable, and 2) if the impulse response of the linear plant is zero att = 0, then the radius of the disk approaches zero as the ratio of the linear-plant bandwidth to the pulse-width-modulator frequency approaches zero. It is shown that the result in 2) implies that the criterion in 1) essentially becomes the well-known Nyquist criterion for sample-data systems when the pulse-width-modulator frequency is sufficiently large. This result permits the use of the standard design techniques for linear sample-data systems in a wide class of pulse-width-modulated systems. Consequently the design of these systems can be greatly simplified."
"Since the day of the first Administrative Committe meeting in 1953, over 2000 papers have been processed for possible publication in this Transactions, not including the numerous technical correspondence items, and there have been 45 issues of the Transactions. An enormous amount of much appreciated support and effort has been given by a vast number of reviewers and the committee members. The work involved to create each issue has been considerable, but it has been rewarded with the formation of acquaintances throughout the world and with a sense of accomplishment that does not always emerge from professional society activities. Fourteen years have also passed and at last, for the first time, starting with the next issue, there will be new guidance for this Transactions: a new editor, new associate editors, and a Group Administrative Committee without one of the original committee members. The group is indeed fortunate in being able to obtain the services of Prof. John B. Lewis as the new editor."
"In this paper the solution of a stochastic optimal control problem described by linear equations of motion and a nonquadratic performance index is presented. The theory is then applied to the dynamics of a single-foil and a hydrofoil boat flying on rough water. The random disturbances caused by sea waves are represented as the response of an auxiliary system to a white noise input. The control objective is formulated as an integral performance index containing a quadratic acceleration term and a nonquadratic term of the submergence deviation of the foil from calm water submergence. The stochastic version of the maximum principle is used in the formulation of a feedback control law. The Riccati equations and the feedback gains associated with a nonquadratic performance index are non-linear functions of the state and auxiliary state variables. These equations are integrated forward with the state equations for the steady-state solution of the problem. The controller for a nonquadratic performance index contains computing elements which perform the integration of the Riccati equations to generate the instantaneous values of the feedback gains. The effect of a nonquadratic penalty on the submergence deviation and the effect of a nonquadratic control penalty on the response of the system are investigated. A comparison between an optimal nonlinear control law and a suboptimal linear control law is presented."
"The complexity and expense of operating natural-gas pipeline systems have made optimum operation and planning of increased interest to the natural-gas pipeline industries. Since the operations of natural-gas pipeline sytems are characterized by inherent nonlinearities and numerous constraints, dynamic programming provides an extremely powerful method for optimizing such systems. This paper summarizes the application of dynamic programming techniques to solve optimization problems that occur in the short-term (transient) terminal distribution and long-term (steady-state) transmission of natural gas."
"This paper describes a bang-bang controller which, with a particular novel scheme of discrete-state variable instrumentation, operates the stepping motor as a digital servo. The near time-optimal servomechanism is designed on a second-order basis, and the rather coarse staircase approximation of the switching curve yields good results. All control circuits have been implemented with integrated circuit components. The entire package has been product tested in the field."
"Techniques using active magnetic coils have been studied for the attitude control of long-life vehicles in synchronous equatorial orbits, Analysis and computer simulation were followed by laboratory tests to investigate various control laws and methods of damping. The results demonstrated that three-axis control is feasible using a hybrid system of coils for torque about two axes and jets or an inertia wheel for the third axis. The use of an on-off controller with lead-lag compensation led to very small impulse capability resulting in efficient limit-cycle performance and high accuracy."
"Conditions are obtained for the asymptotic stabilization of linear dynamical systems through the use of linear state-variable feedback. The procedures developed rely on uniform controllability of the given systems, and yield explicit expressions for the transition matrices of the stabilized systems. As a consequence of the treatment, explicit expressions are obtained for Liapunov transformations which reduce the stabilized systems to canonical (phase-variable) form. Results are given for time-varying multivariable (multi-input) systems."
"A mathematical model is derived for the voltage step-down dc-to-dc converter in which a hysteretic bistable trigger circuit is used to regulate the output voltage. Normalized second-order differential equations are derived for the output-voltage error, or output-voltage ripple, measured with respect to a constant reference. The method of successor functions is applied to the piecewise analytic phase plane trajectory for the errors and the conditions leading to a limit cycle are initially formulated in two transcendental equations. With the objective of obtaining an analytic solution for the period of the limit cycles these two equations are then replaced by approximate algebraic equations which are solvable in general terms. The approximations are carefully based on properties that are typical of all converters of this type, and lead to quite simple but accurate expressions for the period of the limit cycle in terms of arbitrary system parameters. Expressions for the amplitude of the limit cycle are also given, and its stability is tested. A numerical example based on an actual representive system is given. Certain unusual characteristics of the limit cycle as a function of certain system parameters are pointed out."
"The state equationx_{n} = A_{n}x_{n-1}+B_{n}W_{n}and the output equationy_{n} = C_{n}x_{n}+D_{n}W_{n}relate the finite-dimensional vectorsx_{n}, y_{n}and wn. The initial state x0is known to belong to a set X0and each wn. to a set Wn, whereX_{0}, W_{1}, . . . , W_{N}are compact and convex. DefineS_{n}(y_{1}, ... , y_{n})as the set of all possible values of xncompatible with observation of outputsy_{1}, ... , y_{n}; it is compact and convex. Snplays the same role as the a posteriori distribution in the stochastic case and is determined recursively byS_{n-1}(y_{1}, ... , y_{n-1})and yn. The sets involved are completely characterized by their support functions. The law of evolution of the support function of Snis established. Some special cases and applications are pointed out."
"A theory is presented for the optimal design of linear time-varying systems with a quadratic cost functional when not all the states of the plant are accessible for measurement. The procedure involves choosing a constant set of eigenvalues and ensures closed-loop stability, even when the plant is originally unstable. The performance of the resulting feedback system can be made arbitrarily close to the optimum which results when all states of the plant can be measured."
"The parameter identification problem in the theory of adaptive control systems is considered from the point of view of stochastic approximation. A generalized algorithm for on-line identification of a stochastic linear discrete-time system using noisy input and output measurements is presented and shown to converge in the mean-square sense. The algorithm requires knowledge of the noise variances involved. It is shown that this requirement is a disadvantage associated with on-line identification schemes based on minimum mean-square-error criteria. The paper also presents two off-line identification schemes which utilize measurements obtained from repeated runs of the system's transient response and do not require explicit knowledge of the noise variances. These algorithms converge with probability one to the true parameter values."
"Kalman and Bucy [1] derived the maximum likelihood filter for continuous linear dynamic systems where all measurements contain white noise, i.e., noise with short correlation times compared to response times of the dynamic system. The corresponding maximum likelihood smoother was described in [2]. The maximum likelihood filter was presented in [3] for the case in which some measurements contain either no noise or colored noise, i.e., noise with correlation times comparable to or larger than the response times of the dynamic system. In this paper the maximum likelihood smoother for this latter case is derived by formulating the estimation problem as a problem in the calculus of variations having state variable equality constraints. An application of the results is made to estimating gyro drift rates of an inertial navigation system."
"The Sylvester test for establishing the positivity of quadratic forms is a basic tool For nonquadratic forms, however, necessary and sufficient conditions for positivity are generally not known. Given here are some simple necessary and suffcient conditions for forms of the type\\sum\\min{k,l=1}\\max{n} x_{k}m_kl}f(x_{1})to be positive. These results are derived by combining a classic result of Hardy, Littlewood, and Polya with the Birkhoff characterization of doubly stochastic matrices. The results are applied to the difference equations governing a nonlinear feedback loop. In this setting they yield new and quite general conditions for stability."
"Optimization problems forn-dimensional systems withmlinear controls and cost functions not explicitly dependent on the control variables are transformed into equivalent problems involving only (n-m) state variables andmcontrols, and cost functions which are dependent on the controls. The equivalent problems can be solved by standard techniques, but at a considerable computational advantage stemming from the reduced dimensionality. An illustrative example is worked out for a discrete linear system."
"Recent developments in the formulation of Nyquist-type stability criteria by Desoer and Wu allow the formulation of an improved circle criterion. In particular, the impulse response of the linear time-invariant plant may include a step function (integrator) and an infinite sequence of impulses."
"The purpose of this correspondence is to illustrate the use of signal-flow graph theory in obtaining a topological representation of the linear relationship that exists between the inputs and outputs of an epicyclic gear train [1]. Additional applications of signal-flow graph theory are also suggested."
"Minimization of the mean-squared error in linear closed-loop control systems may result in a poorly damped system response to deterministic inputs. To improve the results, it is suggested to minimize the same performance index with a relative stability constraint so that all the characteristic roots have the relative damping coefficient greater or at least equal to a prescribed value."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"A class of time-varying systems whose matrices satisfy a certain matrix Riccati equation is discussed. For this class, the state transition matrix can be found in closed form."
"This correspondence presents an alternative proof of the fact that if a linear time-invariant multivariable dynamical equation is controllable, then by introducing state-variable feedback the eigenvalue of the new A matrix can be arbitrarily chosen. The feature of the proof is the nonsingular transformation of the input vector."
"The radius of the stability circle used in the circle criterion is given by worst-case output distortion components gain. Except for synchronous cases, these components are neglected in describing function analysis. The conservative stability estimates of the circle crlterion for a time-varying operator are perhaps due to the implicit possibility of synchronism. Explicit consideration of synchronous effects may lead to improved stability conditions."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"The problems of self-learning are discussed, and a general method of solving these problems is described. Performance criteria for evaluating the quality of self-learning are given, and the algorithms for self-learning which minimize the proposed performance criteria are found. The ideas of optimal algorithms are introduced. In the conclusion, the special nature of the problems of self-learning is discussed."
"A short and direct new proof is given to Wonham's theorem that a time invariant multi-input linear dynamical system is controllable only if its poles can arbitrarily be reassigned in a closed-loop system by means of a constant (state variable) feedback law. The construction provided in the proof is directly applicable as an effective algorithm for this pole assignment."
"The innovations method of Part I is used to obtain, in a simple way, a general formula for the smoothed (or noncausal) estimation of a second-order process in white noise. The smoothing solution is shown to be completely determined by the results for the (causal) filtering problem. When the signal is a lumped process, differential equations for the smoothed estimate can easily be derived from the general formula. In several cases, both the derivations and the forms of the solution are significantly simpler than those given in the literature."
"Some new coefficient conditions are given which the characteristic equation of a linear feedback system must satisfy in order that the system be stable."
"Basic properties of optimal linear estimates are used to prove that linear transformations of such estimates are also optimum."
"Stability of the discrete homogeneous linear minimum-variance estimation formulas is investigated. Sufficient conditions for uniform asymptotic stability in the large are derived. The conditions, if satisfied, also imply stochastic controllability and observability of the plant."
"The innovations approach to linear least-squares approximation problems is first to \"whiten\" the observed data by a causal and invertible operation, and then to treat the resulting simpler white-noise observations problem. This technique was successfully used by Bode and Shannon to obtain a simple derivation of the classical Wiener filtering problem for stationary processes over a semi-infinite interval. Here we shall extend the technique to handle nonstationary continuous-time processes over finite intervals. In Part I we shall apply this method to obtain a simple derivation of the Kalman-Bucy recursive filtering formulas (for both continuous-time and discrete-time processes) and also some minor generalizations thereof."
"Differential dynamic programming is a technique, based on dynamic programming rather than the calculus of variations, for determining the optimal control function of a nonlinear system. Unlike conventional dynamic programming where the optimal cost function is considered globally, differential dynamic programming applies the principle of optimality in the neighborhood of a nominal, possibly nonoptimal, trajectory. This allows the coefficients of a linear or quadratic expansion of the cost function to be computed in reverse time along the trajectory: these coefficients may then be used to yield a new improved trajectory (i.e., the algorithms are of the \"successive sweep\" type). A class of nonlinear control problems, linear in the control variables, is studied using differential dynamic programming. It is shown that for the free-end-point problem, the first partial derivatives of the optimal cost function are continuous throughout the state space, and the second partial derivatives experience jumps at switch points of the control function. A control problem that has an aualytic solution is used to illustrate these points. The fixed-end-point problem is converted into an equivalent free-end-point problem by adjoining the end-point constraints to the cost functional using Lagrange multipliers: a useful interpretation for Pontryagin's adjoint variables for this type of problem emerges from this treatment. The above results are used to devise new second- and first-order algorithms for determining the optimal bang-bang control by successively improving a nominal guessed control function. The usefulness of the proposed algorithms is illustrated by the computation of a number of control problem examples."
"This paper attempts to lay bare the underlying ideas used in various pattern classification algorithms reported in the literature. It is shown that these algorithms can be classified according to the type of input information required and that the techniques of estimation, decision, and optimization theory can be used effectively to derive known as well as new results."
"Control logic for maintaining a spacecraft's attitude with a minimum expenditure of energy in the absence of disturbance torques and in the presence of large constant disturbance torques has been discussed in aerospace literature. This paper presents the minimum energy control logic for the case of small constant disturbance torques. Reaction jets, with variable average specific impulses, are assumed to be the torquing devices, though the discussions can be easily extended to other devices. The possible types of attitude control system limit cycles are presented in phase-plane form and their relative propellant consumption rates are compared."
"This paper contains a brief description of the modifications which need to be made in the theory of optimal control for systems modeled by ordinary differential equations if the model contains terms which depend on the previous history of the system state and control actions."
"The stability of a system described by thenth-order differential equationy^(n) + a_{n-1}Y^(n-1) + ... + a_{1}\\dot{Y} + a_{0}y = 0wherea_{i} = a_{i}(t, y, \\dot{y}, ... , y^(n-1)),i = 0,1,2, ... , n-1is considered. It is shown that if the instantaneous roots of the characteristic equation of the system are always contained in a circle on the complex plane with center (- z, 0),z > 0and radius ω such that\\frac{z}{\\Omega} > \\{{1, n = 1}{\\sqrt{2n(n-1)}, n \\geq 2}then the system is uniformly asymptotically stable in the sense of Liapunov."
"The effect of modeling errors in a linear discrete stochastic system upon the Kalman filter state estimates is investigated. Errors in both plant dynamics and noise covariances are permitted. The errors are characterized in such a manner that a linear recursion relation for the actual estimation error covariances can be derived. Conditions which guarantee that the covariance matrix remains bounded are described in terms of the asymptotic stability of the homogeneous part of the covariance equation and the boundedness of the forcing terms in the inhomogeneous equation."
"A subgoal problem is defined as the problem of choosing a subgoal or on-line performance evaluator compatible with reinforcement-type learning control systems. The subgoal must evaluate each control decision separately and direct the learning process toward the optimum with respect to the primary goal or performance index. Analytical results are presented for an unconstrained control, including an M-decision evaluator. This general subgoal fails to satisfy the conditions of per-decision evaluation except when M is 1, but might prove useful with different learning algorithms. A method is presented for \"doing the best with what you have.\" That is, a priori information might be used either to design a fixed controller or to choose the subgoal for a learning controller. Analytical and experimental results demonstrate that as a general rule the learning controller makes the best use of the a priori knowledge."
"A method is described for constructing a feedback control law which remains optimal for a class of systems with unknown parameters whose values may lie in given regions. The control depends only on the input and output, and there is no explicit dependence on the unknown parameters. In contrast to the usual adaptive strategy, there is no identification or adjustment period. The optimal controls generated in a Taylor series form, but truncation of the series results in a feedback control which is close to optimal for a range of parameter values. Annth-order truncation of the control results in a (2n+1)th-order approximation of the optimally adaptive performance index."
"A systematic approach is presented based on recent results in filtering theory to treat the problem of optimally controlling a linear stochastic system with a set of unknown but fixed control gains. New suboptimal solutions are proposed for the control, and the non-Gaussian problem is treated. The interaction between filtering and control is clarified. Computer experiments illustrate some of the analytic results."
"A suboptimal control scheme is developed for a linear time-dependent process subject to additive random disiturbances. An open-loop control law is chosen from a one-parameter class to optimize the tradeoff between control energy expenditure and the probability of entering a given target set. The computation is done by means of a digital computer simulation."
"This paper presents a simple procedure using a non-linear compensator for eliminating limit cycles in control systems arising due to hysteresis in contactors or due to backlash. The method consists of 1) the insertion of an element of gainKsgn(z)orK[sgn(z')+1]/2, and 2) the switching of this element by simple processing of the input and output signals of the original nonlinearity. For a contactor, the technique effectively removes the hysteresis but does not alter the dead zone (which, it is pointed out in one instance, might be an advantage) or, of more importance, the bang-bang characteristic of the element. Furthermore, for the contactors, the compensation technique is found effective irrespective of the waveshape at the nonlinearity input and, therefore, is of some general consequence in design."
"It is demonstrated that the transition density function of a randomly excited diffusion process satisfies an integro-differential equation involving functional derivatives. It is shown that the confinement probability at a fixed spatial point also satisfies this backward equation. An upper bound to the confinement probability is calculated for a specific numerical example."
"Two closely related problems 1) adaptive curve fitting and 2) suboptimization can be solved by using the generalized maximum principle. A given curve is approximated by a sequence of arcs in such a way that the duration covered by an arc is automatically shortened at places where the curve is more curly. For the suboptimization problem, a discrete version of the Euler-Lagrange equation is obtained."
"The invariance of the Lyapunov property for functions under the basic operations of addition, multiplication and, in some cases, division is shown. The results are compared with those known for positive real functions."
"The optimal regulator control law for linear discrete systems possesses many interesting algebraic and geometric properties. One such property, that of the nilpotency of the resultant closed-loop matrix, is developed in this correspondence. The nilpotency property is then used to obtain many well-known results which have been previously developed by more classical approaches."
"For the stability of a control system, it is desirable that the roots of the characteristic equation, including parameters in the coefficients, exist in a prescribed region. The approximation method discussed places the roots of the characteristic equation within a prescribed region. The simultaneous equation is obtained from the roots and coefficients of the characteristic equation. By iterating the simultaneous equation, the roots are shifted to a prescribed region."
"The steady-state sensitivity error coefficients are introduced. They are similar to the generalized error coefficients of classical control theory. However, rather than a measure of how a system output fails to track the input, the steady-state sensitivity error coefficients are a measure of how the output of a system with some parameters changed fails to track the output of the expected system. The error during the transient period is completely ignored. The error is given by a series of the derivatives of the input, ands therefore, for polynomial inputs the series terminates and a closed form for the steady-state error is obtained."
"The mathematical problem of determining the set of initial conditions for which a given nonlinear control system is asymptotically stable in the sense of Liapunov has been the object of considerable research. The more practical problem of determining the set of initial conditions for which a given nonlinear control system is asymptotically stable and the trajectory remains within a given region of the state space is formulated mathematically. An approach to estimating the defined region of acceptable motions is indicated."
"The systems considered are linear, differential, strictly proper, of finite order, differentially controllable, and differentially observable, described by the impulse-response matrixW(t, \\tau). Using general results established by the author in a previous paper, a theorem is offered which makes it possible to determine two possible reduced-form factorizations ofW(t, \\tau)by means of differentiations."
"An equivalent second-order system is found for single-actuatornth-order systems with predominantly second-order dynamics. Explicit time optimal control is devised for this equivalent second-order system in the form of a switching curve."
"This paper describes an experimental automatic manipulator whose mechanical hand approaches a target and grasps it without scanning movements. The essential part of the machine is a binocular sensory system which is placed in front of the hand and \"sees\" both the hand and a target. The system consists of a pair of television pickup cameras and a video-signal classifier. It makes a discrimination between the hand and the target, and compares the position of the one with that of the other. Using the comparison results, a control unit controls the movements of the hand. Automatic target approach and grasping have been demonstrated clearly in some experiments where a 1.5 by 6 by 6 cm3wooden block is used as a target and placed in an arbitrary position on a 40 by 40 cm2table."
"Linear time-lag systems containing a constant parameter\\varepsilonare considered. The problem is to find an optimal control which minimizes a given cost functional subject to a given sensitivity side constraint involving the parameter\\varepsilonNecessary and sufficient conditions for an optimal control are investigated."
"Existence results are developed for Riccati equations. In particular, it is shown that the existence of one solution to a Riccati equation implies the existence of a whole family of solutions whose initial condition lies in a cone determined by the initial condition associated with the known solution."
"An assessment of a method due to Garber and Rozenvasser for constructing bounds on describing function method estimates of amplitude and frequency is reported for the autonomous case. A fundamental problem in applying the method is described. Attempts to improve the bounds and a general critique of the method are outlined."
"The input and output degrees of freedom of a system are defined as the minimum number of system inputs required to excite all system modes and the minimum number of system outputs required to observe all system modes, respectively. An explicit procedure is given for determining these degrees of freedom. The usefulness of this information is considered and an example is given."
"A third-order linear system possessing type A step response closely approximates the step response of an equivalent second-order linear system. This correspondence presents curves of the equivalent second-order system damping factor and undamped natural frequency within the type A region."
"A simple proof is given to show that if a linear time-invariant differential system is controllable, then a linear state feedback system can always be found such that the poles of the closed-loop system will be equal to any set of poles assigned beforehand."
"A means is suggested heuristically by which Kalman sequential estimation can be made adaptive to target maneuvers without the sacrifice of tracking accuracy in the nonmaneuvering portions of a trajectory. The adaptation requires backsliding in the gain schedule and reprocessing of the most recent several measurements. These steps are initiated by a maneuver detector which senses a buildup of bias in the filter's estimates."
"The peak tracking problem can be reduced to a Kalman falter problem [1] with the additional variable of the excursion amplitudec, which is then obtained by maximizing the expected peak. In the special case where the parameters do not change, the method yields two tracking procedures depending on the criterion used: 1) Tracking for a limited time and then settling for the parameter value so determined. It is shown that the expected error is proportional to t-1, wheretis the tracking time [2]. 2) A procedure which agrees with the Kiefer-Wolfowitz stochastic approximation method [3]. It is shown further that the expected total reduction in peak value (due to error and hunting loss) is proportional tot^{-1/2}."
"The problem of defining a switching boundary for a learning control system using the concept of reinforcement of a subgoal is discussed. If the state space is quantized into sample set regions, it is shown that the boundary sets are unevenly reinforced because they do not lie symmetrically on the subgoal contours."
"In this correspondence, a new method of finding the transformation matrix that transforms the state-variable equations of a linear time-invariant single-input system to the phase-variable canonical form is presented. The method is simple and computationally it is shown to be superior to all the methods that have so far appeared in the technical literature."
"In the testing of physical systems, a random signal having a desired probability density function and power density spectrum may be required. A method is presented for generation of signals which, for a range of useful cases, can meet such specifications with acceptable accuracy. It is shown that suitable linear and nonlinear operations on the output of a Gaussian signal generator will, in many cases, give the desired signals. The necessary operations may be realized using fairly simple analog computer components. A number of examples are given of the type of signals which can be generated by this method. Some examples which demonstrate the limitations of the method are also given."
"The Newton extrapolation polynomial (NEP) is often used in the interpolation and extrapolation of sampled-data signals. In this correspondence, it is presented under a form which allows, when white noise is present 1) the easy computation of the error variance due to measurement errors, and 2) the choice of the degree of this NEP for signals which are closely polynomials in a given interval."
"The practical implementation of using a digital computer for calculating and plotting of a root locus is described. A comparison to a different but known method is given."
"A time optimal steering policy can be computed for a given rocket vehicle that defines a trajectory from a given initial state to the desired final state by using the minimum principle and solving the associated two-point boundary value problem. In this correspondence, it is shown that application of the minimum principle can yield both a locally minimum solution and a locally maximum solution. Numerical evidence has been obtained to substantiate the findings."
"An illustration is presented, via examples, of the advantages and difficulties of some of the more recent techniques for the determination of stability conditions of some linear time-varying systems."
"A brief description is given of a computer program for control-theoretical computations implemented by the authors on a direct access time-sharing computer system."
"A common method of deriving stability conditions of the \"multiplier\" type involves two steps.\" 1) the feedback equation is transformed into a new equation containing a pair of positive operators 2) an appropriate multiplier is introduced. Depending on which of these steps is performed first, two different results are obtained, and it has not been clear in the past whether either result is preferable to the other. It is shown here that, under suitable hypotheses, it is preferable to perform step 1) first, i.e., a better stability condition is obtained if the transformation into positive operators is performed before the multiplier is introduced."
"This paper considers a discrete real-time nonlinear estimation problem using a least-square criterion. A sequential algorithm is derived which allows consideration of second-order nonlinearities in system measurements. Alternate nonlinear estimation techniques are discussed and examples are given which compare the various estimation algorithms."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"The Mohr circle construction is applied to the rotational transformation of 2×2 covariance matrices, and to the problem of covariance-matrix updating in recursive optimal estimation procedures."
"Ladder networks are particularly suitable for waveguide realizations. Conventional waveguide filters are designed by means of a transformation of lossless ladder networks terminated into resistances. This configuration, however, only allows the realization of a certain class of minimum-phase transfer functions. In this paper a type of microwave filter is analyzed, in which a reactive ladder is combined in a special way with a magic-T or 90-degree hybrid. This filter type can realize non-minimum phase functions, which can offer very useful combinations of amplitude and phase responses. The insertion loss of the ladder network does not enter the transfer function in the same way as in ordinary wave guide filters. A synthesis procedure is given, and this has been applied in the construction of several microwave filters. The inclusion of non-reciprocity by means of ferrite devices to realize fixed or variable filters or microwave modulators has also been studied. A similar method is applied in the realization of driving point impedances at microwave frequencies, in order to realize such functions as cannot normally be realized by means of ladder structures."
"The bandwidth of many microwave systems has been steadily increased over the past few years. Log-periodic and spiral antennas are examples of radiators which have paced the bandwidth expansion drive. Wideband 3-db couplers and phase shifters have followed in close echelon. With the development of YIG filters, experimental local oscillators are now being developed that can be electronically swept over several octaves. All of these components are finding useful application in modern surveillance, tracking and electronic warfare systems."
"In many microwave systems, a signal must be split into two equal-amplitude in-phase signals by a power divider. The power divider must be matched at the input to achieve complete power transfer and should, in most applications, be matched at the two output ports to avoid interaction between the power divider and mismatched networks connected to the outputs."
"For the systematic deveIopment af new TEM-microwave components the accurate calculation of the TEM-wave characteristic impedance is necessary. Besides the characteristic impedance the properties af TE- and TM-modes in new configuratians are important. By TE- or TM-modes in a device designed for TEM-waves the function of this device is gravely disturbed. As the probabiIity of TE- or TM-modes growths with frequency increasing this question is important especialIy at microwave frequencies."
"The conventional treatment of directional couplers formed by two parallel waveguides coupled by a number of equally spaced discrete apertures is based on a loose coupling theory which, for co-directional couplers, assumes that the individual coupled voltages of the apertures add in the forward direction and tend to cancel in the backward direction. Assuming no multiple coupling or interaction effects, a first order expression for the isolation as a function of frequency and of the voltage amplitude couplings of the individual apertures is readily derived. These amplitudes may be tapered to give either Butterworth or Chebyshev performance and simple formulae for the amplitudes derived. In the case of fairly tightly coupled waveguides, e. g. 3 dB, it is preferable to use a set of superimposed arrays, which result in a shorter coupler since the majority of the holes in this design method are of equal diameter."
"Sharp lossless discontinuities in the walls of a rectangular waveguide operating in the dominant mode are commonly introduced for the sake of matching the waveguide to a given termination or for the transmission and distribution of microwave power. The presence of such discontinuities, however, gives rise to reflected waves and storage of reactive energy in the vicinity of the discontinuity because of the excitation of higher order evanescent waveguide modes. A reliable method for predicting the scattering coefficients at the plane of the discontinuity is naturally of great interest in the design or application of waveguide discontinuities."
"To design new waveguide shapes and to assess their performance in larger systems, propagation constants and field patterns must be found. The following examples are typical of studies requiring knowledge of higher-order modes: a)bandwidth considerations - the upper limit is set by the inception of higher-order modes; b) waveguide discontinuity analysis - a set of modes is required to solve scattering problems; and c) multimode launching and propagation studies - applications include prediction of undesirable linear accelerator resonances, multimode techniques in arial improvement, etc."
"Rapid strides are now being made in solid-state microwave power generation, With the recent introduction of negative-resistance avalanche junction diodes and gallium arsenide bulk-effect devices, a new impetus was given to research. This paper is an attempt to assess the present status of these devices and to look into the future. Solid-state devices are already displacing vacuum tubes for low power system functions, including transmitters for line-of sight communication links. What are the possibilities that they can also replace high power microwave tubes? Here, we attempt to assess the probability of success and to foresee some of the directions which such research may take. We point out certain special problems to be solved and present new circuit concepts which appear promising at this time."
"This paper presents results on r-f power output and efficiency of IMPATT oscillators obtained from a large-signal model of these devices. The Large-signal model is obtained by solving the nonlinear equations which relate the current and voltage in a Read-type IMPATT diode subject to the assumption that the transit time of the carriers through the drift region is small compared to the r-f period. The solution gives the current injected by the avalanche into the drift region as a function of the r-f voltage across the diode. From this result the external circuit current at the fundamental frequency of oscillation is found and is used to calculate the diode impedance. The results and conclusions which can be drawn from this analysis are summarized below."
"The noise performance of avalanche oscillators is limited by the inherent noisiness of the avalanche process. It is shown that by suitable system design and the use of noise reduction techniques the device limitations can be overcome in many applications."
"Microwave integrated circuits, coupled with the capability of microwave power generation in bulk and junction semiconducting devices, have opened the possibility for constructing economical integrated beacons in which the entire package, including the prime power source, is of the order of a cubic inch. In order to realize the economy and efficiency inherent in these devices, it is necessary to abandon the concepts of distributed elements which have proved so useful in conventional propagating structures and adopt and develop instead means of determining the characteristics of extremely small integrated structures having generally low impedance levels characteristic of semi-conductor power generators. These techniques are described and developed for use in designing the integrated source-radiator. The device described in this paper consists of an X band dipole which is vapor deposited on an alumina substrate and integrally connected to an IMPATT oscillator thru an impedance transforming network together with an r. f. decoupled bias network."
"Microwave oscillators based on Gunn or avalanche effects are rapidly expanding the field of microwave applications with possibilities which are far in excess of the capabilities of more conventional sources. Some of these potential applications arise from the ability of these devices to combine several microwave operations in one single device. This paper describes such a property which has hitherto not been reported, namely the ability of a Gunn oscillator to oscillate stably at several predetermined frequencies and to switch from one frequency to another with very little residual oscillation at frequencies other than the selected one. The switching is performed either by a pilot oscillator or oscillators which synchronize the Gunn oscillator at a lower power level and which can be removed after switching, or if there are only two stable frequencies present, by sending a positive or negative going pulse along the bias. Experimental results will be given together with a qualitative explanation of the mechanism."
"This paper briefly reports on some of the results achieved with diode switches for 50 GHz band, which have been developed as transmitter-modulators for guided-millimeter-wave ultra-high-speed PCM communication systems."
"Many papers have been written concerning the theory, design, techniques, and measurements relating to power sources consisting of chains of transistor oscillators and simplifiers and varactor multipliers. In general, these papers have emphasized circuit design and in particular, have made an emormous point of designing for optimum power conversion efficiency. However, attractive high efficiency may be from the device standpoint, power stability and low noise output are far more important parameters from the system standpoint in which the chain is used, to assure continuous spurious and noise free circuit operation, even at the sacrifice of output power."
"A considerable effort has been expanded during the past few years on the development of integrated circuits for the microwave frequency range. The various integration techniques which are useful in this frequency range will be discussed and the advantages and disadvantages of each integration approach will be pointed out. Some examples of the state-of-the-art performance of various types of microwave integrated circuits will be given."
"Current development of microwave integrated circuits has revived interest in microstrip transmission line as a means of interconnecting solid-state elements into signal-processing subsystem. This paper describes an alternative kind of transmission line on a dielectric substrate that may be used with or instead of microstrip. As shown in Fig. 1, this alternative consists of a narrow slot or gap in a conductive coating on one side of the substrate. The other side of the substrate is exposed directly to air."
"Recently there has been considerable interest in the use of the open microstrip geometry as a transmission line in microwave integrated circuits. This form of propagating structure is applicable to a monolithic approach on a semiconductor substrate as well as to a hybrid approach using a ceramic substrate. In order to choose suitable materials, we have investigated the basic properties of microstrip and its interactions with the substrate. A detailed experimental investigation has brought to light two important aspects of circuit design with microstrip. First, microstrip has an upper frequency limit and second, it is dispersive."
"For guidance in the design of integrated microwave circuit components, data are required on the parameters of symmetrical coupled pairs of microstrip transmission lines. The parameters needed to characterize this structure are the characteristic impedances and velocities of propagation of the two normal modes. In addition, for certain purposes such as investigation of spurious coupling, peak power capability, and gyromagnetic interaction (in the case of nonreciprocal substrate material), information is also required on the r-f field configuration."
"Distributed microwave integrated circuits have in the past been fabricated by common etch-back techniques on metallized dielectric substrates resulting in simple microstrip transmission line structures for the passive circuitry. This paper discusses examples for the realization of improved circuit functions by overlaying dielectric and metallic films on the simple structure. The present discussion will be restricted to the passive part of hybrid integrated circuits, although analysis and techniques discussed here may also be useful for active devices and monolithics."
"The development of the Schottky barrier diode along with microwave integrated circuit techniques makes possible miniature high performance microwave detectors. This paper describes a low noise microwave integrated circuit mixer using Schottky barrier diodes and reactively terminated image with a 500 MHz thin film IF preamplifier. The entire mixer-IF preamplifier occupies an area of only 0.38 square inches and has a noise figure of 6.7 dB."
"Based on the recent advances in several technologies, a flurry of activity has been initiated in the field of microwave integrated circuits. Multifunction stripline circuits are now possible which compare favorably in quality with waveguide construction and offer the advantages of large reductions in cost and size. This paper shows the introduction of such microwave integrated circuit technology to an FM discriminator."
"Recent advances in solid state microwave technology have made possible the fabrication of diode phase shifters in hybrid integrated circuit form. However, work at X band has been hindered by the limited isolation presently available with diodes at this frequency. Actually, accurate phase shifters can still be built if one accounts for this limited isolation in the design and analysis of the systems. This paper outlines this analysis and applies it in the design of low insertion loss phase shifters for wideband operation around 9 GHz. Surface oriented P/sup +/IN/sup +/ diodes are used in these switched line length systems to obtain phase shifts of up to 360/spl deg/."
"This paper describes the design of an integrated, S-band parametric amplifier that combines a new procedure for the simultaneous achievement of both flat gain and linear-phase response with integration of the essential amplifier components with respect to design and fabrication. Such integration, utilizing either printed-circuit or thin-film techniques, or both, and eliminating all the intercomponent connectors and superfluous transmission lines, lends itself to the realization of precise amplifier performance (reference 1), and leads to potential low cost, mass reproducibility."
"A parametric amplifier has been developed which has given measured noise figures of under 3.0 dB while operating with a gain of 15 dB and an instantaneous signal bandwidth of greater than 600 MHz. The center frequency of operation is 31 GHz. It is a degenerate amplifier with the pump frequency of 62 GHz. The pump power actually being dissipated in the varactor is about 40 mW. A recently developed Schottky barrier varactor is being used in this amplifier. It has the planar structure in that the junction is defined by etching the appropriate sized hole through a SiO/sub 2/ layer on GaAs and then depositing the anode material in the holes. Anode contact is made by a spring wire, the length of which is selected to obtain the proper diode resonance. The cut-off frequency at the bias point is about 600 GHz."
"Varactor parametric amplifiers (paramps) are useful for obtaining low-noise gain over relatively large bandwidths at microwave frequencies. Although usually intended for use where small signals are to be amplified, paramps often work in environments where large signals also exist. Therefore, multi-signal performance must be considered. As with other types of amplifiers, paramps exhibit distortion in the form of gain saturation, cross modulation, and intermodulation. Often, it is desirable to be able to predict, without lengthy calculations, the distortion performance of a paramp in advance, before committing a design to hardware. In addition, it is useful to be able to relate distortion performance directly to the specifications of the nonlinear element (varactor) so that distortion effects can be considered at the earliest possible stage in the design."
"The point contact geometry tunnel diode is recognized as an excellent low level detector. A recent analysis indicates that the tunnel diode, under certain conditions, has a figure of merit greater than any other known diode. In diodes designed for operation in the millimeter wave region, it is found that a number of factors arise which determine the performances of the devices that are not significant in diodes designed for the lower frequencies (less than 20 GHz). This paper reports some measurements carried out on point contact tunnel diodes in the millimeter wave region and evaluates the performances of these diodes in various applications."
"Active filters offer a method for reducing the size of microwave filters without degrading performance. In addition, with active filters, network functions can be realized that are otherwise unrealizable. With the arrival of compact solid state techniques at microwave frequencies, the possibility for active microwave filters is emerging. Since transistors are one of the most likely components for active filter applications, it is of interest to see how microwave transistors can be used in filter applications. The purpose of this paper is to discuss several approaches to active microwave filters and to show examples of how transistor filters have been constructed."
"Both switches and phase shifters using PIN diodes have great appeal to the designers of electronically steered, phased array antennas. With the PIN diode, conductivity modulation of the intrinsic region to a low resistance is effected under forward bias by the injection of carriers from the P+ and N+ contacts. An RF sinusoidal voltage applied across the diode terminals sees an unvarying resistance, because no appreciable net carrier drift occurs in the brief duration of half an RF cycle."
"For communication by radio links, satellites, waveguides etc. a pulse code modulation that is realized by phase reversal (phase shift keyed) has advantages as compared to a pulse amplitude modulation because the signal-to-noise ratio can be 6 db less for the same error probability. The phase shift keying of the microwaves should be rapid (< 1ns) and the modulation losses should be small. A suitable semiconductor element for such a phase modulator is a voltage dependent capacitance diode. A simple circuit for a reflection type modulator is obtained when the diode terminates a transmission line. Then the phase of the reflected wave can be shifted by a change of the bias voltage. The lossless tuner in figure 1a is adjusted so that any residual amplitude modulation is minimized."
"The design of practical traveling-wave masers has, in the past, been limited to physical temperatures in the range of liquid helium (/spl les/ 5/spl deg/K). The advantages of TWM operation at such low temperatures are manifold. All of the important operating characteristics of a TWM such as gain, instantaneous bandwidth, tuning bandwidth, effective noise temperature, etc. improve as the physical temperature is lowered. The consequence of such operation has been a sophisticated, large, and costly cryogenic system to provide the necessary environment."
"Longitudinally magnetized reciprocal ferrite phase shifters have shown anomalous behavior in that some devices show increasing phase shift with increasing applied field while others show decreasing phase shift with increasing applied field. This anomaly has been investigated theoretically by using a ferrite filled parallel plane guide model. It is shown that for electrically thin guides the phase shift decreases with applied magnetic field, whereas with increased thickness the phase shift becomes an increasing function of the applied field. The microwave electric and magnetic fields were calculated for various applied field values and reduced guide thicknesses. This showed that there are two competing mechanisms which govern the type of phase shift. These can be termed \"/spl mu/- effective\" and \"faraday rotation.\" The latter sets in when the guide is thick enough to support a cross-polarized electric field of the same order of magnitude as the incident electric field. Similar analysis of the quasi-TE/sub 1/ and TM/sub 1/ modes were made, showing similar behavior at higher frequencies for a given guide thickness."
"This report describes the design and performance of an improved E-plane waveguide circulator. Although the E-plane circulator has the advantages of higher power operation and more compactness, it has received much less attention than its H-plane counterpart. This has probably been due to the difficulty of achieving broadband performance and the lack of adequate design information. It is proposed in this report that best performance occurs when the dimensions of the ferrite cylinder are adequate to support the fundamental cylindrical dielectric resonator mode. The junction dimensions are reduced to enhance the coupling of the incident energy to this dielectric resonator. At the junction, a novel approach is employed to convert the absorption type cavity to a transmission type. Reduced height transformers match the junction to the standard waveguide ports."
"The concept of composite ferrite junctions has been in existence almost since the beginning of the ferrite device art. If a standard junction is defined as one in which the ferrite material itself fills the entire waveguide or stripline region between the metallic walls or ground planes, one then can then call a composite junction, any junction made up as a combination of ferrite and magnetically inactive dielectric materials, including air. An example of an early composite structure is the waveguide circulator design using a ferrite triangle sandwiched between two teflon sheets. The more recent concept in waveguide circulators of having two ferrite pieces, one on top and one on the bottom of the junction with an air dielectric separation is also an example of a composite junction. In this paper, we would like to show how an extension of these ideas leads one to a considerable improvement in the power handling capability of stripline junction circulators."
"The increasing interest in the use of microstrip on thin ceramic substrates for microwave integrated circuits has motivated the development of ferrite circulators compatible in size and geometry with this type of configuration. This paper describes several recent developments which reduce the size of microstrip circulators and make them more easily incorporated with microwave integrated circuits."
"The Reggia-Spencer phase shifter consists of a ferrite bar or rod placed along the axis of a rectangular waveguide. When a longitudinal magnetic field is applied to the ferrite a change in the rf insertion phase is produced which is independent of the direction of the applied field and the direction of propagation. Although many phase shifters have been constructed using this principle, their design has proceeded empirically due to the lack of an adequate design theory. In 1966, Boyd suggested that the reciprocal phase shift could be explained in terms of a non-reciprocal coupling between two cross-polarized waveguide modes, one the TE/sub 10/-like dominant mode supported by the inhomogeneously filled waveguide, the other a cross-polarized mode which is normally cut off. If this mode propagates Faraday rotation can occur."
"This paper describes the development of a high peak and average power X-band latching SPDT switch for use in antenna switching or energy transfer switching applications. The switch is capable of handling 500 kW peak and 666 W average power levels with external forced air cooling. It is of the differential phase shift circulator type employing a folded magic T, a short slot hybrid and two nonreciprocal 90/spl deg/ ferrite latching phase shifters in RG-51/ U waveguide."
"The development of the non-reciprocal latching ferrite phase shifter may be considered to be one of the major factors in the realization of phased array RADAR systems. Its non-reciprocal characteristics however make it impractical for use with certain systems such as high p.r. f. and short range RADARS. A waveguide reciprocal Iatching ferrite phase shifter has been developed for use at C-band and X-band frequencies which has many of the attractive properties of its predecessor plus reciprocity. Several types of reciprocal latching ferrite phase shifters have been built in the past. The one that will be described here consiets of a longitudinally magnetized ferrite double toroid centrally located in waveguide. Low loss, low reflection operation is achieved by utilizing flux-transfer magnetization and relying on the minor hysteresis remnant properties of the ferrite for maintaining the applied phase settings."
"Tunable filter structures are indispensables preselectors in such systems as ECM receivers and telemetry converters. These new integrated circuit filter structures have a number of distinct advantages over the single crystal YIG preselectors, although the tunable frequency range of the planar devices have not exceeded a half octave."
"Wave guides for Rayleigh surface waves have been made by depositing thin strips of gold plating on a fused quartz substrate. (Rayleigh waves propagate on the surface of a solid in a mariner similar to water waves on a liquid). The principle of guidance is a property common to all wave systems, sonic as well as electromagnetic - a wave will be guided along the axis of a perturbing strip if the net phase velocity in the presence of the strip is lower than that of the uniform medium. Thus the electromagnetic equivalent of this guidance system is microwave dielectric waveguides and fiber optics rather than metal tubes. A complete system of ultrasonic circuitry can be constructed which performs the functions normally expected of waveguides. Experiments were performed in the 10 to 35 MHz range because the ultrasonic transducer art is well developed at that frequency and because the wavelength of sound would be large enough to examine the distribution of energy in the waveguides with probes on micromanipulators. The gold strips are about a hundredth of a wavelength thick and several tenths of a wavelength in width, The dispersion curve for the lowest guided mode has been determined and found to accurately agree with theory. The Q of the transmission lines have been over 5000 and waves have been guided around bends with very low loss. A number of elements such as power dividers, directional couplers and resonators have been made by plating different patterns on the substrate."
"This paper will discuss the state of the art of several types of microwave acoustic delay devices and although it will concentrate mostly in the L and S band frequencies much of the content is appropriate to frequencies as high as X band. The devices to be considered are non-dispersive delay lines, acousto-optical modulators, and dispersive delay devices. In general these devices use either magnetoelastic and magnetostatic propagation in ferromagnetic crystals such as yttrium iron garnet or pure acoustic propagation in a large variety of single crystal materials."
"Advanced RADAR signal processing techniques for improved target detection in severe clutter environments require large pulse compression bandwidths. The clutter power returned from a ground path is proportional to the illuminating pulsewidth. Narrow pulsewidths, possible with pulse compression without sacrifice in average power, provide an excellent way of improving detectability through reduction of clutter return. Frequency diversity is another technique frequently employed to improve the detectabdlty of targets obscured in a clutter environment. Here, again, employment of an ultra-bandwidth spectrum provides the same effect with the complexity of a frequency diversity transmitter-receiver unit. The effect of the broad band spectrum is to cause the target and the clutter statistics to be altered such that a lower threshold can be set for improving target detections . The ultra-bandwidth performance obtained with the single crystal YIG dispersive delay line places it in the front rank of promising candidates for high resolution applications."
"The theory of optical birefringent filters consisting of several equal-length birefringent plates oriented at various angles to the input polarization vector has been applied to millimeter waves. Each plate of such a filter should be ideally impedance-matched to free space, and the wave to be filtered should be a linearly polarized plane wave. The filter, in effect, rotates the plane of polarization of a band of frequencies that it is desired to pass (stop) , and permits the undesired (desired) frequencies to travel on unrotated. Polarization-selective absorbers are thus required. The input and output wave vectors are usually either orthogonal or parallel to each other."
"At this time there is increasing interest in microwave and millimeter-wave systems which use quasi-optical propagation. Examples are focused-beam waveguides and oversized metal waveguides, both of which permit high power carrying capability and low transmission losses. To date most of the research on filters for such systems has been based on the use of dielectric layers of differing dielectric constants. This paper describes a new type of low-pass structure capable of a broad stop band such as would be required in many practical quasi-optical systems. This structure is similar in some respects to the artificial dielectric structures used in some lens antennas."
"This paper describes waveguide modes and mode interactions that have been observed on thin films in the visible spectrum. The modes are similar to parallel plate waveguide modes. Through mode interference, a wide variety of aperture distributions across the edge of the film has been produced. Integration of dielectric devices into the film structure is under investigation for future use in design of optical networks."
"The microphotolithographic art, together with thin films and heteroepitaxial crystals of the semiconductor integrated circuit technology, has been used to define a variety of dielectric waveguide structures other than fibres which are useful in the infrared region. The transverse dimensions of these dielectric infrared waveguides are comparable to the wavelength so that control of the polarization, kind and order bounded modes may be exercised. Therefore, these structures are described as a \"quasi-microwave\" approach for optical waveguide."
"The author index contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in the proceedings record."
"The Steering Committee of the 1968 G-MTT International Symposium and the Administrative Committee of the G-MTT gratefully acknowledge the generous financial support given the S'yrnpos i.urri by the rna.n'y firms whose Institutional Listings appear in the pages of this DIGEST. Their interest and their contributions have substantially helped to rna.ke the DIGEST in its present Eor-rri possible."
"Provides a listing of current committee members."
"Presents the back cover of this proceedings volume."
"Presents the cover from the proceedings of this conference."
"Conference proceedings front matter may contain various advertisements, welcome messages, committee or program information, and other miscellaneous conference information. This may in some cases also include the cover art, table of contents, copyright statements, title-page or half title-pages, blank pages, venue maps or other general information relating to the conference that was part of the original conference proceedings."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"The properties that result from the elimination of a stop-band of a Iossless periodic slow wave structure are discussed. For two particular structures, it is shown that theory predicts a nonzero group velocity at the point of confluence of the two passbands. This confluence is desirable for linear accelerator structures operating at the /spl pi/-mode since it produces increased mode separation. Certain characteristics of zero and /spl pi/-mode confluence are also discussed."
"Investigators have used coupled-mode theory to analyze the coupling between identical waveguides; in such cases the coupling coefficients are found to be identical. If the waveguides differ, the coupling coefficients are asymmetrical and difficult to evaluate by strictly theoretical methods. An alternate approach to this case is considered in the present work. A pair of coupled-mode equations is first developed from a consideration of the permissible fields within the device. This clarifies the relationship between the coupled-mode theory and the more general classical electromagnetic theory by giving a careful definition of the coupled and the normal modes of a coupled structure. It is shown that the coupled-mode equations are an exact representation of the waveguide fields, although for engineering purposes it is often convenient to use approximate values of the coefficients of these equations. The mutual coupling coefficients are obtained from a two transmission-line model of the structure, with the actual coupling mechanism represented by a mutual impedance common to the two lines. For dissimilar lines, the ratio of the coupling coefficients is found to be equat to the ratio of the characteristic impedances. For the cases considered, this is the same as the ratio of the propagation constants of the uncoupled lines, which permits the coupling coefficients to be determined from relatively simple measurements. The adequacy of the theory has been confirmed by a series of experiments."
"A theoretical examination is presented of the influence of a dispersive medium on the time-harmonic TE and TM modal field structure of eletromagnetic waves in a cylindrical waveguide of arbitrary cross section when the medium is in relative motion with respect to the waveguide walls. The modal field structure observed both in the reference frame F' attached to the medium, and in the reference frame F attached to the waveguide walls, is determined in closed form. The results presented for the modal fields observed in F are valid when the medium moves with nourelativistic speed v. Contact is made with the standard relativistic discussion of TEM waves in slowly moving dispersive media involving the Fresnel drag coefficient, and it is noted that the customary restrictions on v for numerical accaracy of the results can be inadequate. The theory is applied to two special cases. The nonreciprocal phase shift exhibited by a waveguide filled with moving media is also discussed."
"The detailed modal field structure has been determined for electromagnetic waves propagating in a uniform cylindrical lossIess waveguide of arbitrary cross section filled with a moving medium. The medium is assumed to be homogeneous, isotropic, and nondissipative, but may be dispersive. It moves uniformly, with a constant speed v, parllel to the axis of the waveguide. The solutions obtained are exact closed-form functions of the space variables, time, modal wave frequency, and propagation factor, and they hold for any value of the magnitude of v, from zero up to the speed of light in vacuum. The electromagnetic power flow in the waveguide is investigated and shown to display characteristics that differ considerably from those associated with the stationary medium case. The general theory is applied to several types of moving media, including nondispersive media and the idealized low-temperature plasma."
"The measurement of transverse R/Q in iris-loaded waveguides by perturbation techniques is described. The underlying pertrurbation theory for resonant cavities is reviewed, and formulas for metallic needles, a sapphire rod, and a teflon bead are given, A calibration of the perturbing objects in TM/sub 010/ and TM/sub 110/ cavities shows good agreement with theory. Conventional oscillator and transmission methods are compared, and a systematic error of the oscillator method is explained. A more sensitive null method is described. A definition of the transverse R/Q is given, from which it follows that the knowledge of the longitudinal electric field component is sufficient to determine the deflecting properties of a structure. The accuracy of perturbation measurements was tested on a cavity for which the R/Q was known from computer calculations and deflection tests. It was found that the various values agree to within 20 percent. Perturbation measurements of deflectors with small coupling holes showed the theoretically predicted interaction parameters. Values close to 2.2 k/spl Omega/ /m at 2.856 GHz were measured on a 2/3 /spl pi/ wave structure with about a 2-cm beam hole."
"A SPDT diode switch was designed for use at 1-2 GHz, having 1.3 dB maximum insertion loss and 43 dB minimum isolation. It was tested to a burnout peak power of 6 kW at 1 /spl mu/s pulse length and 0.001 duty cycle. The switch configuration uses a transmission-line tee with diodes mounted in shunt with the line for convenient mechanical access and efficient heat removal. This configuration is examined to optimize both the transmission and isolation properties over an octave bandwidth. Special attention is given to the procedures for resonantly tuning the diode capacity and inductance parameters. A design criterion for a circuit that minimizes ohmic losses contributed by the diodes is also presented."
"Plasma diagnostics with a confocal spherical mirror Fabry-Perot resonator are examined. The diagnostic equations are presented and experimentally verified. The measurable ranges of electron densities and collision frequencies are treated both theoretically and by example. A brief background of the theory of the resonator is summarized (with references) from the literature. A perturbational technique for measuring collision frequency, or Q change, through the variation of a resonator's transmission coefficient at resonance (for a general resonator) is derived, and the results experimentally verified. This technique could be a powerful diagnostic tool and is shown to have certain advantages under noisy conditions. This type of resonator is simple and inexpensive to construct, easy to align, and gives very good diagnostic results."
"A traveling wave maser (TWM) has been constructed for use at 8448 MHz. It provides a net gain of 41.5 dB when installed in a closed-cycle helium refrigerator operating at 4.4°K. The maser provides more than 30 dB net gain over a tunable range of 140 MHz. An equivalent input noise temperature of approximately 18°K has been measured. The net gain of the maser (41.5 dB) has a short-term stability such that the radiometer stability (0.08 dB peak to peak) is not degraded when the maser is added to the system. The maser can be tuned over a 140 MHz range with net gain exceeding 30 dB. Cool-down time of the closed-cycle refrigerator with this maser is 4.6 hours (no liquid nitrogen precooking) and 2.4 hours with precooking."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"In this paper it is shown that any arbitrary delay characteristic of a commensurate microwave network, which supports a TEM mode of propagation, may be realized by means of a transformerless, coupled-line network within an arbitrary additive constant. The realization procedure presented is based upon the synthesis of microwave C-type and D-type allpass sections."
"Synthesis procedures are developed for the direct realization of a complete microwave allpass network without the reduction of the network to cascades of C- and D-type sections which include interdigital line structures. The application of microwave allpass networks to the phase correction of conventional microwave filters and to the construction of delay networks with linear delay characteristics is also presented."
"A synthesis procedure is described for the design of branch-guide directional couplers which gives results showing a significant improvement over previous approximate methods. The synthesis technique adopted gives exact Butterworth characteristics and almost exact Chebyshev equal-ripple characteristics, the deviations in the latter case being so small that in most practical cases they may be neglected. The design of branch-guide couplers for bandwidths of greater than one octave is demonstrated. The design information for a large number of cases of practical interest is presented in tabular form, and experimental results for several branch-guide couplers constructed in waveguide and in stripline are in good agreement with the theory. The technique could prove valuable in the design of microminiature stripline hybrids and couplers."
"This paper describes simple reflection coefficient standards for use with the circular TE/sub 01/ mode. They consist of circular irises inserted directly into the flange connection of a \"matched\" termination. The reflection coefficient of an iris is formulated exactly and then evaluated to any desired degree of approximation with a digital computer. The results of a 30-mode approximation are presented and shown to agree with 24 GHz measurements of the modulus and phase of /spl rho/ of 7 irises to within about 0.008 relative units and 0.02 radians, respectively."
"The Z-transform technique has been applied to the effect of lateral lens displacements on the propagation of paraxial rays in a lens guide. The Z transform of the ray displacement from the guide axis is obtained and techniques for obtaining the ray displacement from its Z transform are outlined. The property of the transform that determines the stability of the ray in the guide is given. To illustrate its use, the transform is used to obtain the response of the ray to the following types of lens displacements: 1) any arbitrary sequence of displacements, 2) sinusoidal lens displacements of arbitrary frequency, 3) sinusoidal lens displacements at the ray position resonant frequency, and 4) lens displacements that form a bend in the guide. Also an analogy is shown to exist between the response of linear circuits to amplitude modulated pulse trains, which is a function of time, and the response of the light ray to lateral lens displacements, which is a function of the distance of propagation down the guide."
"Based upon the Maxwell-Minkowski theory, the equations governing the propagation of electromagnetic waves in a cylindrical waveguide of an arbitrary cross section filled with a moving anisotropic medium are derived. The governing equations are reducible to a pair of coupled wave equations in the axial components of the electric and magnetic fields, which in turn can be solved through the solution of a single second order scalar homogeneous Hehnholtz equation. For a general anisotropic medium no pure TM or TE modes can exist in the waveguide. However, if the moving medium is uniaxially anisotropic, TM and TE modes are possible. It is interesting to note that the cutoff frequencies are always lowered by a factor which depends upon the velocity of the medium and is independent of the guide geometry. The formulas for the characteristic wave impedance and power flow in a waveguide for a moving uniaxial medium, if expressed in terms of the new cutoff frequency, have the same forms as those for a moving isotropic medium. The propagation characteristics of waveguides of rectangular and circular cross sections filled with a moving uniaxial gyroelectric medium are discussed."
"The problem of modes and losses of a resonator terminated by \"flat-roof\" reflectors is approached with the Fox and Li method of iteration. Field distributions, phaseshifts, and losses for some of the low-order modes are derived as functions of the roof angle and mirror aperture. A good agreement is found with the approximate theory previously developed by Toraldo di Francia. High loss regions are also observed. The behavior of different modes in such regions is investigated in detail. Design guidelines are given too. Experimental texts carried out on an X-band model confirm the theoretical predictions."
"The three-port hybrid considered in this paper is useful both as a power divider and power combiner. In the divider application, power entering the input port is split equally and with zero phase difference between the output ports. All ports are well matched and the output ports are highly isolated. The generalized form of the hyhrid circuit is a T junction followed by a multiplicity of cascaded pairs of TEM line lengths and interconnecting resistors. Due to symmetry, the resistors are decoupled from the input port, but they serve an essential function in providing output-port match and isolation. Each pair of lines and its associated resistor are referred to as a section. The one-section hybrid has been known and widely used. Its usable bandwidth is f/sub 2/ / f/sub 1/ =1.44:1 for VSWR <1.22 and isolation >20 dB. This paper shows that additional sections can provide a large increase in bandwidth. Some of the examples treated are as follows: two sections, f/sub 2/ / f/sub 1/ =2, VSWR <1.11, isolation> 27 dB; four sections, f/sub 2/ / f/sub 1/ =4, VSWR <1.10, isolation >26 dB; and seven sections, f/sub 2/ / f /sub 1/ =10, VSWR <1.21, isolation >19 dB. Exact design formulas are given for two-section hybrids, and approximate design formulas for three or more sections."
"A comparison of exact and approximate calculations of the propagation constant of a rectangular wavegrride containing a centrally placed piece of setniconducting material has beerr made. The results show that the approximate solutions are subject to considerable error and also indicate a linear relationship between attenuation constant and conductivity that may beuseful for the measurement of the semiconductor properties."
"A system is described which extends reflection coefficient measurement techniques to E-band (60 to 90 GHz). Special apparatus and procedures are discussed. A new graphical presentation of reflectometer data is given which simplifies the measurement of counector impedance. Examples of the measured reflection coefficient magnitudes of some common E-band connectors are given."
"The theoretical input VSWR of 'binary' TEM power dividers has been calculated. The purpose of this correspondence is to present this VSWR as a function of a normalized frequency variable both analytically for any power division and graphically for dividers UP to 32-way. Tbis material is both theoretically and practically interesting because of the extensive use of dividers of this type."
"The technique of tandeming two symmetric 8.34-dB directional couplers to produce a 3-dB coupler was described in 1965 by J.P. Shelton, et al.. This technique is useful because broadband 3-dB couplers are difficult to synthesize directly, due to the impedance levels involved. This correspondence shows that it is possible to tandem connect two asymmetric 8.34-dB couplers to yield a broadband 3-dB device. Design tables for 8.34-dB asym. metric couplers which give the normalized even-mode impedances required for a given ripple, number of sections, and bandwidth are also presented."
"A waveguide phase bridge technique is developed for measuring the phase of the coupled signal between two loosely coupled antennas. This measurement is basically more involved than any of the available techniques for mutual coupling measurement, but it is also the only method whose accuracy is, in principle, independent of the amplitude of the coupling, For this reason, it appears to be the most simply implemented and most accurate technique for measuring the mutual coupling between very loosely coupled antennas."
"In the above-named work [ibid., vol. MTT-15, pp. 37-41, Jan. 1967] the author described two models of a nonreciprocal circular polarizer. The second model was a two-stage device in which the second stage provided a refinement of the approximate circular polarization produced by the first stage. The device used for this purpose consisted of a circular waveguide with a ferrite rod along its axis, so dimensioned that one sense of circular polarization could propagate but not the other. It has been called to the author's attention that a theoretical basis for such a device was provided in a series of papers by R.A. Waldron (\"Electromagnetic wave propagation in cylindrical waveguides containing gyromagnetic media,\" J. Brit. IRE, vol. 18, pp. 597-612, 677-690, 733-746, 1958). Furthermore, a patent embodying the applicacation of this principle was obtained by him (British Patent 850 054, September 2S, 1960)."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Membership application."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"The coaxial low-pass filters described are of the conventional stepped impedance type consisting of a cascade of alternating low and high impedance sections of line. Exact prototype filters having Chebyshev equal-ripple characteristics are obtained from published tables giving the characteristic impedances of the sections. The capacitive discontinuities at the junctions are compensated by a new method which is exact at the cutoff frequency, and nearly exact in the region of this frequency. The production of low-pass filters with a passband VSWR of 1.05 or less is feasible and experimental results are described for such designs."
"Design techniques and interconnection equivalent circuits are presented for constricting low-cost printed-circuit narrowband complementary filters. The techniques and circuits described allow the achievement of contiguous band multiplexers using a single printed circuit board with no series or shorted stubs. Equivalent circuit transformations useful in obtaining practical designs and experimental results for a two-section stripline complementary filter pair are also given. While emphasis is placed on printed-circuit filters, the interconnection circuits and design techniques presented can be applied in the design of narrowband multiplexers using many other filter types."
"In the first part of this paper a broadband matching theory of resonant circuits is developed. It is not assumed that the center frequency of the matching interval is equal to the resonance frequency of the resonant circuit. The upper limits of optimum broadband matching are derived with the aid of Fano's integrals. Furthermore it is shown how we can approach these ripper limits as well as desired with real matching two-ports with Chebyshev response. This broadband matching theory of resonant circuits may be applied to circulators if the input impedances of the circulators can he represented approximately by resonant circuits. This problem is treated in the second part of the paper."
"Three boundary value problems involving parallel-plate waveguides terminated in various combinations of electric and magnetic walls are investigated. The analysis leads to infinite sets of linear algebraic equations, which are appropriately truncated and solved on an electronic computer. The results are applied to several problems: to the scattering matrix of the symmetrical four-port junction of parallel-plate or rectangular waveguides; to the symmetrical four-port junction of center strips of a balanced strip-transmission line; to a specially truncated right-angle bend in paralIel-plate and rectangular waveguides; and to mitred bends in strip-transmission lines."
"This paper presents an approximate theory and initial performance data for a new type of latching, switchable, ferrite junction circulator that is well suited for applications requiring fast (fractions of or several microseconds), low-energy (tens of microjoules in the microwave region) switching. The novelty of the device is the use of oppositely magnetized ferrite cylinder-and-ring assemblies within the region of circulation. The approximate theory yields the radius for circulation, bandwidth, and input impedance as functions of material properties and frequency. Operation of latched circulators has been demonstrated on assemblies operating in the region of 7.3 and 5.4 GHz. Insertion losses from 0.25 to 0.4 dB, 20-dB isolation bandwidths from 2.4 to 8.3 percent, and switching energies from 15 to 30 /spl mu/J have been obtained."
"Higher-order modes produced in a guide and fields radiated out of a guide by a circumferential gap in a multimode circular waveguide that is used for millimeter wave transmission, were investigated by means of fictitious equivalent magnetic current for the gap. These results were compared with the analysis obtained by Bethe's method, which was used for the problem of diffraction of fields by a small hole in a plane conducting sheet. The two results agreed well for narrow gap."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"The miniaturization of high-Q resonant microwave structures is of great importance. This must he done to keep pace with the size reduction of other related components. The need has led to an investigation into the feasibility of using dielectric materials as microwave resonators. This paper deals with the application of the TiO/sub 2/ dielectric resonator in a narrowband bandpass filter operating in the 2200 to 2300 MHz telemetry band. The study confirms the theory that a bandpass filter employing dielectric resonators is practical to build, is compact, and will approach the performance of an equivalent waveguide filter. The design employed five resonators mounted in a cylindrical tube that was 1.4 inches in diameter by 4.3 inches long and weighed 4.6 ounces. An equivalent waveguide filter would be approximately 2.3x4.5x16 inches long and would weigh approximately 64 ounces (WR-430). The thermal sensitivity of the dielectric resonator employing TiO/sub 2/ is an inherent problem and oven regulation for narrowband applications will be required. Small, inexpensive thermal jackets are available that will control the filter stability to a value equal to, or better than, that obtained with a filter utilizing aluminum cavities operating in a typical uncontrolled temperature environment."
"This paper is concerned with dielectric disks used as resonators in microwave bandpass filters. For many years it has been known that modes of resonance occur in isolated dielectric bodies having air boundaries, and that very compact high-Q resonators can be achieved when /spl epsiv/ /sub r/, is high and tan /spl delta/ is low. High-purity TiO/sub 2/ ceramic material, for example, has an /spl epsiv/ /sub r/ about 100, tan /spl delta/ about 0.0001, and Q/sub u/ about 10 000. Practical applications of dielectric resonators have previously been limited by insufficient design information. Formulas are derived for the coupling coefficient between adjacent dielectric-disk resonators within a metal waveguide below cutoff. This metal enclosure is necessary for shielding and to prevent radiation loss. Comparisons between theoretical and experimental coupling coefficient values show very good agreement in each of the three bandpass configurations treated in this paper. Techniques of loop and probe coupling to the end resonators of a multiresonator bandpass filter are discussed and methods of supporting the resonators are suggested. The conclusion is made that microwave dielectric resonators offer important size reductions compared to conventional resonators of similar high Q, but that the center-frequency change of the dielectric resonators as a function of temperature is excessive for many applications. Temperature stabilization is one solution, but preferably a material should be developed having electrical characteristics similar to TiO/sub 2/ ceramic, but with at least an order of magnitude improvement in temperature sensitivity."
"An algebraic procedure is described which yields approximate values for the cutoff frequencies and propagation constants of dielectric-loaded waveguides. The procedure is demonstrated for a waveguide completely filled with an anisotropic dielectric and for waveguides partially filled with isotropic dielectrics. For the latter case results are tabulated for five types of waveguide loading. The symmetrically loaded waveguide is used to show the accuracy which may be expected. This procedure is shown to be identical with the Rayleigh-Ritz variational method but with the advantage that it provides a systematic approach to improve the accuracy and to handle a multitude of waveguide geometries."
"Noise in synchronized oscillators is analyzed using a simple oscillator model. It is shown that the FM noise can be considerably improved by synchronization while the AM noise degrades slightly. It is also shown how the noise spectrum becomes unsymmetrical with respect to the synchronizing freqnency when it differs from the free-running frequency."
"Existing theories that relate to propagation in a rectangular waveguide loaded with a transversely magnetized slab of ferrite are reviewed and new points brought out. In the loss-free case, in which the ferrite stab lies against one of the waveguide walls, conflicting results are obtained. If the width of the air gap between the ferrite slab and the waveguide wall is set equal to zero, a single surface wave propagating in one direction only is predicted. This result leads to a thermodynamic paradox. If, however, the air gap is assumed infinitely small but different from zero, two surface wave modes, which transport energy in opposite directions, are predicted. The aim of this paper is to establish whether or not a surface wave exists when there is no air gap for a real structure which is not free of loss. The experimental results show conclusively that the surface wave is present. It is concluded that a mathematical model is required, which assumes losses. If for reasons of simplicity a lossless model is used, then it must be assumed that the width of the air gap is never identical to zero. The structure selected for the experimental work consisted of a rectangular block of ferrite that completely filled the cross section of an X-band waveguide."
"This paper reports a method for computing the line capacitance of a microstrip line based on the application of Fourier transform and variational techniques. The characteristic impedance, guide wavelength, and the surface potential distribution in the microstrip line are obtained for a range of structure parameters and the dielectric constant. The results calculated from the expressions developed in the paper are compared with the theoretical results presently available in the literature and good agreement is found. Comparison with available experimental results is also made where feasible. Possible applications and limitations of the method are discussed."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"On May 20-22, the G-MTT 1968 International Microwave Symposium will be held in Detroit at Howard Johnson's New Center Motor Lodge. The three-day program will include 42 contributed papers and 4 invited papers on topics of current interest to the microwave profession. The highlight of the symposium will be the banquet, to be held on Tuesday night, May 21. The feature speaker will be W. A. Geoffrey Voss; Bill Bazzy will be toastmaster. The following pages provide an overview of planned conference events and a listing of which papers will be presented in each session."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"In order to suppress trapped-mode resonances and other disturbing phenomena related to the existence of higher-order modes in oversized waveguides, suitable mode filters are required. In this paper such filters are described for rectangular waveguides in which only the dominant H/sub 10/ mode is wanted. The unwanted modes to be suppressed by the mode filters are classified as 1) E/sub mn/ and H/sub mn/ modes with n /spl ne/ 0, and 2) H/sub m0/ modes with m /spl ne/ 1. These two types of modes must be treated separately and require different approaches to the mode-filtering problem. For both classes several constructions of mode filters are described and analyzed."
"A rectangular waveguide, with a T-septum attached to one of its side walls, is capable of supporting two modes with equal-phase velocities. Stationary expressions are developed for the cutoff wavelengths of these two modes as functions of the cross-sectional dimensions. A Rayleigh-Ritz procedure is used to produce families of curves relating each cutoff wavelength to the septum dimensions; intersections of corresponding curves establish theoretically those combinations of dimensions that permit the two modes to propagate at a common velocity. Experimental corroboration of the theory is also presented."
"A millimeter-wave quadruple, employing planar-diffused GaAs varactor diodes and a tuned second-harmonic idler circuit, is described. This quadruple operated at an output frequency of 50.4 GHz, produced a maximum power output greater than 13 mW, and exhibited a maximum overall conversion efficiency of 12 percent. 2) A millimeter-wave up-converter using similar diffused GaAs diodes has been operated successfully. The input was at 1.3 GHz, the output at 51.7 GHz, and the local oscillator power was supplied at 50.4 GHz. The minimum observed overall conversion loss, 50.4 to 51.7 GHz, was about 2.5 dB at an output power between 1 and 3 mW. 3) The performance of these devices is described as a function of the parameters of the diodes employed, and a comparison of the performance of diffused-junction and Schottky-barrier diodes (of comparable quality) in the two circuits is discussed. 4) The fabrication and characterization of the planar-diffused gallium arsenide varactor diodes used in these circuits is described; zero-bias cutoff frequencies to values in excess of 2000 GHz were achieved."
"The complete solution of the differential equation describing the propagation of plane uniform TEM waves along the twist axis of a twisted anisotropic medium with a constant rate of twist is shown to be of exponential type, consisting of two identical pairs of independent propagation modes, each pair being associated with a particular direction of energy flow. Knowledge of the complete solution is used to solve the boundary value problem relative to wave penetration into a twisted medium at normal incidence, a numerical example being given illustrating the polarization transformation properties of the medium near the short wavelength limit. Analysis of mode properties reveals circnlar birefringence should occur in twisted media at long wavelengths. A link power, as shown by certain crystalline substances provided by the theory."
"The effect of both the ground planes and sidewalls on the characteristic impedance and coupling coefficient of two coupled strip-Iines are investigated. Numerical results are given that should aid in the design of miniature directional couplers where the sidewalls are close enough to the strips to have a large effect. It is shown, for example, that the coupling coefficient can be varied as a function of distance to enhance the bandwidth, while the impedance can he maintained constant to improve the directivity."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Computer-aided direct search is a useful and flexible method of optimizing noncommensurate networks or networks for which exact synthesis theories culminating in some particular response are not available. It can accommodate network parameter constraints and unconventional performance specifications and is not accompanied by problems of component realizability. A simple form of direct search is applied in this paper to the design of a microwave network whose performance is optimized within certain specifications. The network is a stabilizing and biasing arrangement for a tunnel-diode amplifier operating in a reduced height S-band rectangular waveguide, and takes the form of a coaxial-line band-stop filter. Parameter constraints are inherent to the problem so they are taken into account. The requirements of stability and low noise broadband amplification in conjunction with the external circuitry impose nonsymmetrical response restrictions on the input resistance and reactance of the network. At the same time it is required to minimize the square of the input reactance at selected frequencies. No available exact synthesis of band-stop filters can solve this problem as presented here."
"The scattering of an axial cylindrical surface wave by a conducting plane annulus coaxial with a Goubau line is investigated both theoretically and experimentally. An integral equation for the current induced on the annulus is developed and solved numerically. A novel approach is used to enforce the edge condition directly in the numerical solution. The computed magnitude of the current induced on a large annulus is plotted and compared with the current which would flow on a short circuit in order to demonstrate the effects of the edges of the annulus. Values of the reflection coefficients are calculated from the computed current distributions. Numerical results are presented and compared with experimental values measured on a Teflon coated aluminum rod. Annluses measuring up to one wavelength in radial width and positioned up to one wavelength above the dielectric are considered, and agreement between theory and experiment is found to be good. A thorough description of the experimental apparatus and measuring technique is presented."
"Expressions are derived for the conductor loss in microstrip transmission lines. The formulas take into account the finite thickness of the strip conductor and apply to the mixed dielectric system. Good agreement with experimental data is obtained for rutile and alumina substrates."
"A scale model (f/sub 0/ =20 GH/sub z/ of a Solc-type birefringent wave filter for millimeter wavelengths is described. The filter consists of five cascaded identical half-wave plates, or crystals, each composed of an artificial anisotropic dielectric medium with its reference axis tilted at some prescribed angle to the plane of the input polarization. The design and analysis of an individual plate, using Collin's second-order theory of the birefringence of artificial anisotropic dielectrics, and the analysis of multielement filters (filters composed of many plates), aided by Evans' matrix method, are discussed. The experimental filter was tested in the range of 18 to 33 GHz, and its measured performance was found to compare well with the theoretical performance over a major portion of the range of frequencies used in the tests. A synthesis procedure for optimum (equal-ripple stopband) response multielement filters is given, together with tables of plate angles for such filters. In this procedure, the Dolph approximation and the Harris synthesis are combined."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"This Transactions issue is a first in joint sponsorship within the IEEE. It involved the coordinated publication efforts of the IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON ELECTRON DEVICES, the IEEE JOURNAL OF SOLID-STATE CIRCUITS, and the IEEE Transactions on Microwave Theory and Techniques. The involvement of three distinct publications demonstrates the wide interest of the technical community in this new and challenging field of microwave integrated circuits. I t also shows the accelerated evolution of a technology when broad and varied disciplines channel their efforts in a common direction. The Guest Editor of this Special Issue, William Edwards, is well known in the field of integrated circuits. His efforts in organizing, refereeing, and processing papers in this high quality issue are weil appreciated."
"The subject of this issue is the integration of microwave circuits-a method for the construction of microwave circuits where photolithographic and chemical processes are the dominant fabrication techniques. This issue is indicative of the variety of integrated microwave circuit development efforts that exist. As reported here, investigations have included hybrid and monolithic circuits; ceramic, semiconductor, and ferrite substrates; distributed and lumped element circuits; special device configurations; computer aided design; and feasibility demonstrations of various circuit classes. In viewing these efforts and their results, it has become apparent that microstrip is quite acceptable for implementing interconnections on a variety of substrates and that circuit losses are not prohibitive; for higher frequency applications (above X band), where surface finish is more critical, single crystal substrates such as semiinsulating gallium arsenide may be required. Further, device packaging has become a limit to circuit experimentation and a demand is being created for characterized unpackaged devices in beam lead, or some equivalent form. Finally, integration has advanced from the realm of novel possibility to near practical reality. Much advanced systems planning is now predicated on the existence of integrated microwave circuits. There is considerable opportunity for innovation with process, device circuit, and application in this area and, as efforts continue to expand, the advantages which have accrued through integration at. lower frequencies should in some measure apply to the microwave area."
"Applications of monolithic and hybrid semiconductor circuit technologies to microwaves are discussed from a semitechnical and economic viewpoint. Technical feasibility of performing nearly all functions through millimeter waves is foreseen. Economic success, however, is less tangible and depends mainly on two factors: the willingness of systems people to trade increased initial cost for greatly decreased maintenance cost and the magnitude of the requirements for electronically steered antennas. The author's estimates of the business potential are discussed."
"An X-band mixer using GaAs Schottky barrier diodes with a thin-film 500-MHz IF preamplifier was developed using hybrid microwave integrated circuit techniques. The balanced mixer had filters to provide a short circuit at the image frequency. The entire mixer preamplifier occupied an area of only 0.38 square inches and had a noise figure of 6.7 dB which corresponded quite closely to the theoretical noise figure considering all losses. The thin-film IF amplifier alone had a 2.2-dB noise figure and the mixer IF amplifier coupling network had a loss of 0.4 dB."
"This paper describes the development of microwave lumped-element thin-film amplifiers. The basic design philosophy underlying lumped inductors and capacitors at microwave f requencies is reviewed, showing how Q's of 100 are achieved. A variety of tunable input, output, and interstage integrated lumped-element networks for transistor amplifiers were fabricated. The gain and efficiency of 2-GHz class-C operated transistors mounted in these circuits were comparable with the beat performance achieved by the same transistors in less Iossy coaxial circuits. The measured losses (1.2 dB) at 2 GHz were very close to those calculated using the design parameters. Single-stage amplifiers at 2 GHz achieved one watt of output power with 4 dB of gain. At somewhat lower power levels more than 6 dB of gain was achieved. The circuits allowed the operation of low-power level class-A amplifiers with over 13 dB of gain. Cascaded operation yielded more than 17 dB of gain with 0.8 watts of CW power. It is concluded that lumped elements can be fabricated by thin-film technology and will play an important role in microwave integrated circuits."
"Complete realization of the potentialities of hybrid microwave integrated circuits will require both semiconductor and ferrite elements. This paper presents performance data for several microstrip ferrite devices that can play an important role in the exploitation of microwave integrated circuits. Data on both fixed-field and latched microstrip junction circulators are given including a fixed-field circulator with less than 0.4-dB loss and greater than 20-dB isolation over the 6.5- to 9.3-GHz band. The characteristics of microstrip meander-line phasers are discussed, and a simple, rugged technique for fabricating single-crystal YIG devices by embedding the YIG element in the substrate is presented."
"This paper is intended as a review of developments which allow ferrite materials in a planar geometry to be used in the realization of magnetic devices which are compatible in form with other microwave integrated circuits. These devices include phase shifters (reciprocal and nonreciprocal), latching circulators, isolators, and phase and amplitude modulators. The application of some of these devices is demonstrated in the form of electronically steerable array antennas."
"An S- to X-band frequency quadrupler was developed with a 4.0-dB conversion loss and 11-percent bandwidth using hybrid integrated microwave circuit techniques. The multiplier has a low-pass transforming filter on the input and a bandpass filter consisting of half-wavelength lines edge coupled over quarter wavelengths on the output. Design curves for the bandpass filter are given for ceramic microstrip. Two beam-lead varactors were used in the multiplier giving it an input power-handling capability of 3-watts peak power."
"A hybrid-integrated parametric amplifier has been fabricated in a microstrip transmission-line configuration. General design considerations and their implementation in a microstrip medium are discussed. The amplifier exhibited a power gain of 10 dB and 50-MHz half-power bandwidth with a noise figure of 2.0 dB. It was pumped at X-band frequency and required only 10 mW of pump power. The integrated pump source consisted of the transistor oscillator and a varactor quadrupler stage."
"The problem of wide bandwidth and flat in-band gain response for microwave transistor amplifiers has been reduced to the optimization of a number of important variables from computer prepared design charts. Through the general flexibility of the computer-generated data, a large variety of amplifier responses are possible using distributed circuit matching networks. As experimental verification of the overall design procedure, single-stage and two-stage octave wide transistor amplifiers were fabricated on 1inch by 1inch and 1inch by 1/2 inch 20 mil thick alumina, respectively. The experimental data gained from these units showed excellent correlation with the computer predicted response."
"An analytical program for calculating the field distribution about a microstrip transmission line bounded by a shielding wall is used to calculate the impedance, velocity, and attenuation parameters. The program input parameters are the dimensions of the strip and shielding wall and the relative dielectric constant of the substrate material. The field distribution about the strip is integrated to find the charge density on the strip and walls with and without the dielectric substrate. From these two calculations, the relative velocity and impedance can be calculated."
"Device requirements of a medium power Ku-band reflective phase shifter are reviewed indicating a requirement for a diode with a 4-Terrahertz cut-off frequency. Various structures are examined to test their suitability for integration and feasibility for meeting specifications. A \"pocket version\" of a surface oriented device design is chosen and described. It is shown to meet or exceed all electrical requirements while providing for compatibility with final integration into the circuit."
"GaAs has many desirable features that make it most useful for microwave and millimeter-wave integrated circuits. The process of selective epitaxial depositions of high purity single-crystal GaAs with various doping concentrations into semi-insulating GaAs substrates has been developed. These high-resistivity substrates (>10/sup 6/ ohm /spl dot/ cm) provide the electrical isolation between devices, eliminating the difficulties and deficiencies normally encountered in trying to obtain isolation with dielectrics, back-etching, p-n junctions, etc. This monolithic approach to integrated circuits thus allows for improved microwave performance from the devices since parasitic are reduced to a minimum. Planar Gunn oscillators and Schottky barrier diodes have been fabricated for use in a completely monolithic integrated millimeter wave (94 GHz) receiving front end. The Gunn oscillators are made in a sandwich-type structure of three selective deposits whose carrier concentrations are approximately 10/sup 18/ - 10/sup/15/ - 10/sup 18/ cm/sup -3/. The Schottky diodes consist of two deposits with concentrations of 10/sup 18/ and 10/sup 17/ cm /sup -3/. The Schottky contact is formed by evaporating Mo-Au onto the 10/sup 17/cm/sup -3/ deposits; all ohmic contacts are on the surface and are alloyed to the N/sup +/ regions."
"Monolithic millimeter-wave integrated circuits have been designed and fabricated on semi-insulating GaAs substrates using microstrip transmission lines. Circuits using hybrid techniques have also been constructed on quartz and ceramics. This paper shows that microstrip-line integrated circuits are feasible at millimeter-wave frequencies. Circuit functions have been constructed and tested in the 25- to 100-GHZ range. The loss in microstrip line on semi-insulating GaAs was found to be less than 0.3 dB//lambda/. Couplers from waveguide to microstrip have been made with transmission losses less than 0.5 dB. Monolithic integrated detectors showed 5-dB better sensitivity than a 1N53 diode in a Philips detector mount. Monolithic diodes delivered 1.5 mW at 28 GHz. The results are encouraging and a fully monolithic integrated receiver is under development."
"This paper describes the design approach, fabrication techniques, and electrical performance for two types of microwave hybrid thin-film phase shifters. Emphasis is placed on the practical aspects of the overall design and fabrication. A simplified set of design equations for loaded-line phase-shift networks is presented and divided into three categories based on the type of loading employed. The two circuits presented are a 4-bit 90/spl deg/ network employing single-section multibits to minimize physical size, and a 4-bit 360/spl deg/ network employing the 45/spl deg/ section as a basic building block."
"This paper presents an evaluation of materials and processes applicable to the fabrication of hybrid microstrip microwave circuits. Substrate materials evaluated included aluminas, beryllias, quartz, and glass of varying purities and surface finishes. Conductor materials evaluated included silver, copper, gold, and aluminum. Fabrication processes studied included vacuum deposition, sputtering, electroless and electroplating, thick-film screening and firing, and photoetching. Sapphire and high-purity alumina (99.5 percent pure or better) substrates were found superior as substrates for microstrip circuits. Conductor materials and processing methods found best were 1) vacuum deposited chromium-gold thin film which was gold electroplated and photoetched; 2) thick-film silver which was photoetched to delineate the microwave pattern."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Analyses previously published on the subject of mode conversion consider only the forward scattered modes. The present paper investigates both the forward and backward scattered modes at frequencies from cutoff to far away from cutoff in a multimode nonuniform waveguide. The four coupled telegraphist's equations with varying coefficients are transformed into the form of coupled Volterra integral equations of the second kind and these integral equations are solved by an iteration method. The solutions are valid for all frequencies from cutoff to far away from cutoff. For uniform waveguides the solutions correctly reduce to those of the original forward traveling launching mode. The solutions also show the characteristics of \"propagation\" in the tapered cutoff region of the waveguide. The accuracy of the series solution is discussed, and possible wide applications of the results to a variety of problems are mentioned."
"A set of coupled first-order differential equations for the wave amplitudes in nonuniform waveguides is developed. The coupling coefficients are regarded as differentiaI transmission and reflection scattering coefficients between two adjacent elementary radial waveguide sections. The analysis is an extension of an earlier quasi-optical solution. This set of coupled equations is compared with the familiar generalized telegraphist's equations which may be derived by considering the nonuniform waveguide to consist of elementary rectangular waveguide sections. The equations for the wave amplitudes derived in this paper are less coupled than the commonly used telegraphist's equations, and they may also be applied to waveguides with large flare angles and in regions at which the waveguide modes are at their respective cutoff cross sections."
"The possibility of using cascaded sections of exponential transmission line in place of uniform transmission line is discussed. This makes it possible to reduce element lengths without changing the impedance level at the input and output terminals. Relevant design formulas are derived."
"The symmetrically truncated right angle E-plane corner is investigated as a function of the position of the truncation plane. The problem is treated by placing electric and magnetic walls in the plane of symmetry of the bend and solving the resulting boundary value problems assuming an incident TEM mode in parallel-plate waveguide. The results are directly applicable to the same type of corner in rectangular waveguide. In analyzing the problem an infinite set of first order differential equations arise which are appropriately truncated and solved on an electronic computer by means of a fourth order Runge-Kutta scheme."
"A theoretical method is presented by which microstrip-like transmission lines can be analyzed. These transmission lines are characterized by conducting strips, large ground planes, multi-dielectric-layer insulation, and planar geometry. The method is essentially based on a variational calculation of the line capacitance in the Fourier-transformed domain and on the charge density distribution as a trial function. A shielded double-layer microstrip line is analyzed by this method. Derived formulas for this structure are also applicable to simpler structures: a double-layer microstrip line, a shielded microstrip line, and a microstrip line. The calculated values of the line capacitance and the guide wavelength are compared with the measured values where possible. Oxide-layer effects on a silicon microstrip line and shielding effects on a sapphire microstrip line are also discussed based on this theory. The limitations and possible applications of this method are described."
"A small-signal dynamic equivalent circuit is established for the output voltage of a dc-biased bolometer (barretter) detector. The circuit consists of a voltage generator /spl upsi//sub g/, whose output is an undistorted replica of the incident RF-power modulation envelope, followed by a series resistor R/sub 1/ of dynamic origin, a shunt capacitor C that represents heat storage in the bolometer wire, and a series resistor R/sub 0/ equal to the dc resistance, usually 200 ohms. The resistance R/sub 1/ is independent of signal level, and is typically about 220 ohms for an 8.75-mA bolometer and about 120 ohms for a 4.5-mA bolometer. At a modulation frequency f/sub m/ near 0 Hz, the equivalent audio source impedance of the bolometer is R/sub 1/ +R/sub 0/. The common belief that the source impedance is R/sub 0/ in the weak-signal case is, therefore, refuted. Formulas are derived giving v/sub g/ / /P/sub RF/ and R/sub 1/ as functions of basic, easily determined bolometer parameters. The time constant for open-circuit load is /spl tau//sub oc/= R/sub 1/C, where /spl tau//sub oc/ is determined best by measurement, since catalog values of /spl tau//sub oc/ often are seriously in error. The capacitance is C=/spl tau//sub oc/ / /R/sub 1/. With one type of bolometer /spl tau//sub oc/ measures about 110 /spl mu/s, while various catalogs state values of 250 to 350 /spl mu/s. The equivalent circuit is confirmed quantitatively by measurements of output voltage and source impedance versus modulation frequency."
"One coder stage of a previously reported 1200-megabit per second microwave-carrier gray-code analog-to-digital converter has been constructed. This stage, using a 9-GHz carrier, can encode analog signal at a 240-MHz rate, thereby giving an equivalent 5-stage bit rate of 1200 Mbit/s."
"An investigation was made of a millimeter-wave oscillator AFC system utilizing the inherent stability of a molecular rotational transition as a reference. A unique frequency discriminator, based on Stark modulation of the J=1/spl rarr/2 transition of methyl fluoride, CH/sub 3/F, was used to stabilize a reflex klystron. The stabilized frequency was approximately 102.2 GHz. Experimental data indicate that a closed-loop stability of about one part in 10/sup 7/ per hour was achieved. The long-term stability thus obtained is comparable to that of a phase-locked oscillator utilizing a low-frequency quartz crystal oscillator as a reference."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"When I was invited by the regular editor, S. Okwit, to be Guest Editor of the special issue of this TRANSACTIONS on the subject of noise, I had no idea how many man-hours of effort would be involved. My management may or may not have known either, but, nevertheless, they encouraged me to accept the invitation, which I did. I am happy to report that I have had their whole-hearted support not only in providing me with special secretarial assistance, communication conveniences, and incidental expenses, but also in granting me the time to complete the assignment."
"Details of noise measurement techniques in the L- and S-bands are discussed. The complete noise parameters of microwave transistors are presented in the frequency range 0.6 to 4.2 GHz. Noise figure, available power gain, and noise measure are shown as a function of the source admittance and of the source reflection coefficient. The equivalent circuit and the noise figure of a microwave transistor are evaluated using an analog model."
"This paper examines in detail the noise performance of broad-band masers. A brief description is given on the longitudinal and transverse-staggering techniques of broad-banding. A review of the noise equations for a homogeneous maser is presented and a base for the development of a more general theory which takes into account bandwidth, passive loss, physical temperature, etc., for broad-band masers is given. Equations are developed and graphs presented which allow the evaluation of noise performance as a function of bandwidth. Comparisons of the two staggering techniques are given. Some experimental results are compared to theory and a critical analysis of the measurement technique for broad-band masers is included."
"Maximum sensitivity was required for the reception of Mariner V signals as it was occulted by the planet Venus. To meet this requirement, an ultra-low-noise radio-frequency system (ultra cone) was developed for the JPL/NASA Deep Space Instrumentation Facility (DSIF). The system consisted of an 85-foot antenna with a Cassegrain feed, low-noise transmission line components, and closed-cycle refrigerated maser amplifier. The antenna (at zenith), transmission line, and maser contributed about 9/spl deg/K, 2/spl deg/K, and 5/spl deg/K, respectively, for a total operating noise temperature of approximately 16/spl deg/K. The antenna feed, maser system, and calibration techniques are described in detail."
"The gain and noise of a linear two-port device can be measured simultaneously using two noise generators as the only signal sources. While this method is usable for measuring all linear two-port devices except those with high loss, it is particularly convenient for low-gain devices, for which it replaces three conventional measurements. The terms \"minimum output temperature\" and \"standard output temperature\" are introduced."
"The techniques associated with the measurement of antenna temperature at microwave frequencies are discussed. A number of experiments designed to measure cosmic microwave background radiation are described and their results compared. These results give a very good fit to a 3/spl deg/K black body curve between 1.4 and 35 GHz."
"Measurement instrumentation for the investigation of atmospheric noise fluctuations at 4 cm to 8 mm wavelengths is described. A brief review of the published literature on this subject is presented in support of the methods used in the measurement. Observations using the sun as a background source to obtain a measure of atmospheric opacity are described as providing an average value over an observing period frequently longer than the time during which a significant change in atmospheric opacity is detectable at these short wavelengths. Preliminary observational data are presented which indicate the potential of the measurement instrument to obtain the amplitude distribution function of sky noise fluctuations for various weather cases."
"The performance of a 3.3-mm radiometer, operational in the Space Radio Systems Facility of the Aerospace Corporation since December, 1963, is described, and a criterion for judging the long-integration-time performance of the radiometer is discussed. This criterion is applied to a study of radiometer output noise; from the results, it is inferred that the output noise spectral distribution is flat from a few ten-thousandths of a hertz to a few hertz."
"Though radomes have been used for years as a means of protecting antennas from the elements, little appears in the Iiterature to aid the engineer in his choice of the radome material to use in a particular installation. This may be due to the fact that many radome materials are adequate when used with a receiving system having a mixer (i.e., relatively hot) front end. However, an improper choice of radome material can seriously degrade a receiving system that employs a maser or other low-noise front end. A radiometric technique for the measurement of insertion loss is described, and a sample calculation, including error analysis, is presented."
"The accuracies of conventional microwave radiometers are influenced by instabilities mainly in their RF components A radiometer is described that uses two reference temperatnres. The signal processing eliminates the influences of all RF parameter changes on the radiometer indication. Thus the overall stability depends only on the reference temperatures and the low-frequency and dc components. These can be made extremely stable by careful design. The paper presents a detailed analysis of the radiometer performance. The minimum detectable signal is greater than that of a comparable Dicke radiometer, but approaches this, if the reference temperatures are appropriately chosen according to the particular measurement problem. The great advantage of the radiometer is that no measurement time is lost for frequent recalibration. Practical results of an X-band radiometer for airborne use are given at the end of the discussion. They are in good agreement with the theory and demonstrate the feasibility and superiority of the concept."
"The UHF and microwave portion of the radio frequency spectrum is characterized by the use of several different types of transmission lines, the most common being coaxial line and rectangular waveguide. A frequent and recurring problem is that of calibrating an item which is fitted with one type of output (or input) terminals, in terms of a \"standard\" having a different set of terminals or connector. By an extension of certain techniques that were developed in an earlier paper on power calibration transfer, it is possible to make a similar comparison of noise sources. The procedure requires a suitable adaptor and a pair of measurements that are combined in such a way that the adaptor losses approximately cancel."
"In the past, measured noise temperatures T/sub n/ of a few commercially available gas discharge noise sources were indicated as agreeing with the predicted electron temperature T/sub e/ of the positive column based on the von Engel and Steenbeck relationship. Data were taken over the past 2 years on argon tubes over a pressure range of 5 to 40 mm and on neon tubes at 20 mm, with current variations from 100 to 300 mAdc. These data were compared against predicted electron temperatures. For the argon tubes at pressure-radius products greater than 20 mm/spl dot/cm there appeared to be reasonable correlation between the measured noise temperature and the predicted electron temperature although it is suggested that this correlation was fortuitous. For argon pressure-radius products less than 20 mm/spl dot/cm the measured noise temperature was as much as 15 percent lower than the predicted electron temperature. For neon tubes at 20-mm pressure, with the same variation in tube radius, and for pressure-radius products less than 24.0 mm/spl dot/cm, the measured noise temperature differed even more than for argon from the predicted electron temperature. A difference of as much as 30 percent at a pressure-radius product of 3.0 mm/spl dot/cm was observed. A qualitative explanation for argon is presented based mainly on the fact that these discharges do not have a Maxwellian distribution of electron velocities nor a velocity independent electron collision frequency. For neon the wide variation was not understood."
"Calibrated microwave thermal noise standards usually consist of a matched resistive element thermally isolated by a transmission line. They are used for microwave radiometry, antenna temperature calibrations, loss measurements, low-noise amplifier performance evaluation, and low-level CW signal level calibrations. The formula used to account for the distributed loss and temperature along the transmission line is derived and simplifying approximations and limitations are noted. Exact (hf/kT<<1) and approximate (hf/kT<<1, /spl pound/<<1) solutions for various loss and temperature distributions are tabulated. A FORTRAN computer program is available for a general solution that uses the transmission-line temperature and loss distributions for input data. The single largest source of calibration error is usually the microwave insertion loss measurements. The construction, calibration, and errors are discussed for a field-operational liquid-nitrogen-cooled waveguide noise standard. This standard is precisely calibrated and has a nominal noise temperature of (78.09 /spl plusmn/ 0.12 peak)/spl deg/K."
"Gas discharge tubes and waveguide mounts have been developed as reference standards of noise for S-, C-, and X-band in WR284, WR137, and WR90 waveguide. Their design and development are described and details of their performance are given. Particular attention has been paid to reducing the spread of noise output. At S- and X-band an overall absolute accuracy close to /spl plusmn/ 0.1 dB has been achieved for all possible combinations of tube and mount."
"The chief possible causes of error in the calibration of microwave noise sources are examined and a radiometer designed to minimize these errors is described. This includes a self-contained hot-load standard, facilities for measuring the hot-guide losses, a synchronously switched broad-band circulator, a switchable, high-stability attenuator, provision for measuring this attenuation, and a carbon-filament lamp reference noise source."
"A method is suggested that can measure the available power (or the effective temperature) of a noise generator independent of its reflection coefficient. A system utilizing a compensation generator and a tuned three-port circulator is constructed at X-band and evaluated for a noise generator of about 10 000/spl deg/K. The error analysis and the experimental results indicate that the effective temperature of this generator, with a reflection coefficient of 0.5, can be measured within 0.6 percent in addition to the uncertainty of a standard needed to calibrate the system."
"A technique is presented for analyzing the effect of mismatched components on the absolute noise-temperature calibrations of principal noise sources in a microwave receiving system. Scattering parameters are used to describe the properties of the microwave network that is connected between noise source and receiver. The calibration method discussed is the Y-factor power-ratio measurement technique involving the use of two thermal noise reference standards. Calculations made for an operational low-noise antenna receiving system indicate that, even when components have reasonably low-voltage reflection coefficients (typically less than 0.05), peak errors due to mismatches could be as high as 70 percent and 11 percent on measured antenna and effective input noise-temperature values, respectively. For the special case where the reflected and direct wave receiver noise sources are fully correlated, the peak errors can be even larger."
"The thermal noise from passive multiports is discussed from fundamentals so that it can be understood, measured, or calculated by a microwave engineer. The multiports are assumed to have a uniform temperature, but with no restriction on reciprocity or mismatch. The noise temperature, T/sub N/, contributed by such a multiport is T/sub N/=A T where T is its physical temperature and A is its absorption coefficient. An approximate method of measuring A, and a method of measuring an A as small as 0.008 within 5 percent, are pointed out. Also, exact and approximate expressions for A in terms of scattering matrix elements and termination reflection coefficients are derived. Finally, the crosscorrelation of the noise from different ports is briefly considered."
"The noise power, excess exchangeable noise figure, and excess transducer noise figure of a linear active two-port are represented by the power wave scattering transfer matrix. It follows that these noise figures are expressed as ratios of two Hermitian forms, and that their stationary values and the reflection coefficients at the input which yields them are obtained from the eigenvalues and the corresponding eigenvectors of each characteristic matrix. The excess transducer noise figure is considered here only for the case of the load being a resistor. It is proved that the transducer noise figure is equal to the exchangeable noise figure, which includes the contribution of equivalent noise at the input transformed through a two-port from the noise originating in the load. In order to evaluate graphically the change of noise figure of a two-port from its optimum value because of the reflection coefficient at the input, two kinds of noise figure charts are developed: one shows the contours of the constant noise figure normalized by the optimum value, and the other shows the contours of the constant difference between the prescribed noise figure and the optimum value. Their application to a practical problem is demonstrated. The noise figure of a linear active three-port with a passive termination /spl Zeta//sub 3/' at port 3 is expressed by a ratio of two Hermitian forms, and its stationary value and the reflection coefficient /spl Gamma/ /sub 3/ of /spl Zeta//sub 3/' which yields it are obtained. Two noise figure charts are presented by means of which the noise figure of a three-port for a specified /spl Gamma/ /sub 3/ can be evaluated."
"Generalized equations are derived for noise generation and its propagation in linear N-cascaded two-port networks with mismatches. The analytical method is applied to microwave measurements in low-noise technology; e.g., in determining the effective input noise temperatures of a cryogenic paramp and the noise temperature of a cryogenic noise standard in a mismatched system. This approach is also applicable to mismatched networks at different temperatures. Two types of thermal noise standards utilizing liquid helium or helium gas as a refrigerant are described. Either type can be mounted on the back side of antennas and switched into the microwave-receiver line. However, the noise standard with the helium-gas refrigerator has the advantage of operating without refilling or spilling its coolant as the antenna elevation is varied."
"An X-band thermal noise source is described that consists of a waveguide termination, cooled in a cryogenic environment, along with temperature and pressure monitors and controls. With liquid helium as the cryogen, the effective noise output at the room temperature flange can be set to values around the boiling point of helium (4.2/spl deg/K) with an accuracy of /spl plus mn/ O.O5/spl deg/K. With liquid nitrogen as the cryogen, the output temperature can be set to values around 77/spl deg/K with an accuracy of /spl plus mn/ 0.13/spl deg/K. This accuracy is made possible by several unique features. First, the terminating waveguide section is a vapor bulb thermometer with the absorbing load surrounded with the cryogenic liquid. Second, heat exchangers are used to permit an unusually short waveguide transition seetion between cryogenic and room temperature. Third, an absolute pressure regulator is used to control the cryogen boil-off rate resulting in a temperature stability of 0.003/spl deg/K for helium and 0.02/spl deg/K for nitrogen. At present, the useful accuracy of the standard is limited to /spl plus mn/0.1/spl deg/K because of uncertainties in the insertion loss (about 0.001 dB) of mating room temperature flanges."
"RADAR target scintillation is observed in every type of RADAR system and has generally been analyzed on the basis of the performance of specific types of RADAR systems. However, the target scintillation phenomenon, including Doppler scintillation, may be expressed as distortions of the RADAR echo signal propagating in space, independent of RADAR system parameters. In this form it is convenient for visualizing the overall effects on RADAR systems and how these effects are altered by the RADAR system parameters. Past literature has demonstrated the target angle scintillation as a distortion of the RADAR echo signal phase front. Extension of this approach by a Poynting-vector analysis of the RADAR echo signal from a complex source shows a corresponding deviation of the direction of power flow consistent with the phase-front distortion theory and target scintillation measurements as well as describing all other target scintillation characteristics. The analysis demonstrates that deviations in the direction of the echo signal power flow from a complex target can be so large that the apparent source falls many target spans away from the actual target location. This is demonstrated by both tracking RADAR and single-beam search-t ype RADAR experiments. Although the theoretical angle deviations approach infinite error in target location, RADAR parameters, such as the finite size antenna aperture which perform a space integration of the echo signal, impose practical limitations. Typically, when a complex target such as an aircraft subtends an angle approaching a few tenths of a beamwidth, the antenna aperture integration will significantly limit the rms angle scintillation. Furthermore, the ways in which intentional means, such as diversity techniques, may be employed to reduce the effects of target scintillation on a RADAR are observed in Poynting-vector analysis. The analysis of the echo signal propagating in space provides a readily visualized basis for derivation of the Doppler scintillation caused by the airframe (rigid body portion) of a complex target which spreads the Doppler over a finite bandwidth when it has random yaw, pitch, and roll motion typical of aircraft in flight. The derivation relates the Doppler scintillation to the angle scintillation and the random motions typical of aircraft targets. A typical aircraft target with Gaussian-distributed angle scintillation and Gaussian-distributed rates of random motion will have a spike-shaped Doppler spectrum described by the modified Hankel function K/sub 0/ where the parameters are determined from the values of the rms angle scintillation and the rms angular rates of random motion. These values can be closely approximated without extensive measurements on the target. Experimental results verify the theory. The expressions used to derive the Doppler spectrum may be modified to accommodate non-Gaussian distributed angle scintillation and rates of angle motion."
"The electrical noise at millimeter wavelengths generated by an absorbing gas in a cavity is computed as a function of the intensity of an applied coherent signal. The phase of the noise components is strongly correlated with the phase of the coherent signal and the absorption and emission spectrum are similar in the neighborhood of the coherent signal frequency. As the intensity of the coherent field is reduced, the noise emitted by the gas-filled cavity becomes random and can be described by Nyquist's equation."
"The noise output of two mutually synchronized oscillators has been calculated. It is shown how the two oscillators contribute to the noise. The AM noise of the combined output signal turned out to be considerably increased compared to the AM noise of the free-running oscillators. The FM noise can be improved by proper choice of parameters. To check the theory measurements have been carried out which agree satisfactorily with the theoretical results."
"The phenomenon of injection phase-locking may be used to synchronize one or more oscillators to a lower power master or reference oscillator and also reduce part of the resultant FM noise power spectrum. A theory is presented that predicts the resultant FM noise spectrum of an injection phase-locked oscillator when the spectrum of the reference source and the free-running oscillator are known. Experiments conducted are described and comparison with theoretical predictions are discussed."
"The theory of cavity stabilization of a microwave oscillator is reviewed and the appropriate design equations presented. The theory is verified with data taken on three different types of microwave oscillators: 1) a 10-GHz reflex klystron (stabilization factor achieved-22; FM noise reduction-28 dB; typical FM noise level-0.008 Hz in a 1-Hz bandwidth); 2) a 9.7-GHz low-noise two-cavity klystron oscillator (stabilization factor achieved-10; FM noise reduction--21.7 dB; typical FM noise level-0.0007 Hz in a 1-Hz bandwidth); 3) a 10-GHZ avalanche transit time diode oscillator (stabilization factor estimated at 30; FM noise reduction-29.5 dB; typical FM noise level--0.5 Hz in a 1-Hz bandwidth). Stabilization of the avalanche transit time diode oscillator produced a significant reduction in AM noise for modulation frequencies larger than the bandwidth of the stabilizing cavity."
"An oscillator using a directional coupler is proposed as a solution to the design of efficient low-noise high-power high-frequency oscillators. FM noise measurements are presented for microwave sources derived via varactor multipliers from several different transistor oscillators of this type. The design has an isolated port which can be used to achieve injection phase lock. This feature is used to point out some of the interesting FM noise properties of these oscillators, the knowledge of which is important in the design and application of solid-state microwave sources. Also, experimental results are given which show how a low-noise microwave source can be built using a low-frequency crystal oscillator followed by a high-order varactor multiplier."
"Improved measurement methods are presented for measuring both AM noise and FM noise from microwave oscillators, The Schottky barrier diode detector is used to measure AM noise 170 dB below the carrier in a 1 Hz bandwidth. A new discriminator is presented that has a measurement threshold below 0.001 Hz rms in a 1 Hz bandwidth. The use of a storage oscilloscope and wave analyzer to study noise modulation is discussed. The new discriminator and storage oscilloscope can be used for short-term stability measurements for intervals up to 100 seconds."
"This paper discusses the measurement of additive noise in microwave power amplifiers, under CW and pulsed condition. The introduction of a pulsed carrier cancellation principle permits, for the first time, an investigation of the additive noise of pulsed amplifiers down to the thermal noise level. The measurement apparatus consists of three channels fed from a common source. One channel contains the amplifier under test. The other channel is pulsed by a \"noise-free\" modulator with the same pulse parameters as those of the test channel. The two signals are algebraically cancelled in a hybrid circuit and the difference signal, containing only the noise sideband of the amplifier, is coherently detected with the signal in the third channel. Measurements made on klystron amplifiers indicate that the level of the power spectral density of the FM noise approaches the thermal noise level, and that it has nearly the same value for CW and for pulsed operation."
"This paper describes a noise measuring system with a high degree of flexibility in regard to video frequency coverage as well as radio frequency coverage. Noise systems for S, X, and Ku-bands were constructed to obtain high sensitivity at spectral frequencies from several Hz to 30 MHz off the carrier. The measured limiting sensitivities of the X-band set over the video range 20 Hz to 325 kHz with an input power of 10 mW are --145 dB for AM noise and 0.02 Hz rms for FM noise in a 100-Hz measuring bandwidth."
"Measured amplitude noise spectra of X-band microwave oscillators rising silicon avalanche diodes are presented and compared with theoretical calculations. It was found that for the investigated diodes, the up-converted low-frequency noise (modulation noise) is the main contribution to the spectrum. In a frequency range extending from 1 kHz to several hundred MHz, the spectral noise power distribution is a sensitive function of the bias network impedance. Improvements in the noise-to-carrier power ratio of 5 to 15 dB were obtained by optimizing the bias network impedance. The dc current dependence of the amplitude noise spectrum is a complicated function of diode and circuit parameters. In general, the noise-to-signal ratio improves with increasing current. At high current densities, a reversal of this behavior may occor due to excess noise generation in the breakdown region and saturation effects of the signal power output. The equivalent rms deviation of the frequency modulation noise spectrum is typically one order of magnitude below that of the RF phase noise contribution due to RF noise sources, The phase noise spectrum of the oscillator is, therefore, not affected by the bias network impedance. Measurements on recent diodes indicate that the noise characteristics can be improved by careful control of the semiconductor device processing."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"The group velocities of different modes are not the same when a usual type of optical waveguide is considered. The envelope of an optical pulse is therefore broadened while the optical pulse travels. In the case of a two-dimensional waveguide, it is found that the group velocity of each mode can be made the same if an appropriate distribution of the refractive index in the guide is realized. When a waveguide with such an optimum distribution is considered, the group velocity is also independent of frequencies if the medium is dispersion free. The property mentioned above is closely related to the fact that such a waveguide has an ideal focusing property. In the case of a cylindrical optical waveguide in which the refractive index depends only on the radius, such an optimum distribution does not exist. A method of calculating the mean velocity of an arbitrary ray in the guide is described on the basis of the WKB approximation to the wave equation."
"The purpose of this paper is to present experimental data on the circuit properties of dielectric resonators which do not have conducting boundaries. The resonators are constructed of single-crystal rutile and strontium titanate, which, as has been shown by several authors, can form resonators of miniatnre size and high unloaded Q. We consider the lowest-order H mode, give measured values of resonant freqnency (for rectangular parallelepipeds), mechanical frequency tuning, control of coupling to microwave circuits, and discuss the measurement of, and typical values of, external Q of resonators mounted in waveguides. We also consider periodic propagating circuits consisting of linear arrays of mutually coupled resonators."
"A voltage induction method of microwave susceptibility measurement has been proposed. A signal from a one-turn coil wrapped directly on a magnetic sample is phase sensitively detected, and the real and imaginary parts of susceptibility as a function of magnetic field are directly indicated on an oscilloscope. Analysis shows this method to have a much higher sensitivity for small samples than the conventional cavity perturbation method. Also, this method is characterized by a higher stability, since the measurement is not for the perturbation of the resonant curve of high Q cavity, but for RF magnetic flux in a sample which is relatively stable for a frequency fluctuation of the signal source, independent of the sample volume. This method has been checked with good agreement against a perturbation method for a sample where both methods could be used. A YIG film, which is too small (4 mm by 4 mm by 0.3/spl mu/) to obtain any detectable perturbation of cavity parameters, was successfully measured by this method. The new method allows very rapid measurement combined with a very simple procedure for the relative measurement of susceptibility."
"The dispersion relations (/spl omega/-/spl beta/diagrams) for propagation of the quasi-TEM mode and higher-order symmetric modes in longitudinally magnetized ferrite-filled coaxial waveguide are presented. The dispersion relations for ferrite-filled coaxial cavity resonators are analyzed and presented graphically. The performance and operation of an X-band tunable ferrite filter is evaluated in light of the /spl omega/-/spl beta/diagrams"
"An analytical study of the influence of moving media on the propagation of transient electromagnetic modal waves in dispersive waveguides is presented. The response to impulsive excitation is determined in exact closed form and used to demonstrate that the nature of the pulse distortion differs in each of the three cases, 1) 0 < u < c /spl equiv/ (/spl epsi//spl mu/)/sup -1/2/, 2) v = c, and 3) c < v < c/sub 0/ /spl equiv/ (/spl epsi//sub 0//spl mu//sub 0/)/sup -1/2/ (v = speed of the medium). An expression is derived from which the pulse waveform generated by an input of arbitrary form can be readily determined when 0 < v < c if the transient response to a similar input is known for v = 0. An untabulated Laplace transform pair is derived and used to determine the unusual pulse distortion in case 3) which shows a markedIy discontinuous change from the pulse distortion in case 2). The theory illuminates a singular circumstance in which the Lorentz transformation is consistent with the \"speed of light\" differing from one inertial reference frame to another."
"The reasons for preferring the impedance versus bias method of measuring varactor Q at high frequencies are pointed out. To circumvent the circuit loss problem, a rigorous procedure has been developed, based on the Weissfloch equivalent circuit of a lossy two-port network, for extracting the varactor junction Q. Parallel circuit loss is automatically corrected for, but correction for series loss requires substitution of a dummy shorted varactor. The procedure is described along with an actual example of its use at 64 GHz. Simulated examples are also worked out to illustrate the effect of the initial reactance in series with the varactor junction, and to demonstrate the numerical correctness of the procedure."
"A 258-GHz reflection amplifier was built which consisted of a cylindrical cavity (3 mm diam., 7 mm Iength) filled with hydrogen cyanide gas at pressures up to 0.1 torr. When the molecular resonance of the J = 2/spl rarr/3 rotational transition of H/sup 12/C/sup 15/N and the cavity resonance coincided, about 100 /spl mu/W of the monochromatic pump-power were sufficient to saturate the two-level quantum system. The pumped gas furnished a nonlinear (power-sensitive) impedance which was used to amplify weak AM-sidebands. The signal was reflected with a maximum gain of 20 dB and a bandwidth of 0.5 MHz. The variation of the amplification with gas pressure, pump power, frequency, Q-values, and cavity tuning was measured and analyzed. The low unloaded Q-value of the TE(O, 1, 11) resonator, the limited pump power available at 258 GHz, and matching difficulties prevented attainment of the theoretical gain-bandwidth product of 37 MHz at room temperatures. A measurement performed at 200/spl deg/K indicated a threefold increase of this gain-bandwidth product."
"To facilitate a scattering matrix analysis of complicated microwave circuit problems, an equivalent generator approach has been developed. The equivalent generator parameters are stated in terms of the parameters of the actual circuit elements. These statements are expressed in terms of special determinants which make the results easier to remember, and easier to use. Three different types of problems are solved to demonstrate the utility of the method; the response from generalized reflectometers, the properties of cascaded multiports in terms of its elements, and the properties of multiports whose number of available ports have been reduced."
"In a high-power microwave system (particularly a CW or long-pulse system), it often becomes necessary to protect the transmitter from the damaging effects of RF breakdown in the waveguide. The onset of RF breakdown may be detected by optical detectors or by an increase in the reflected RF signal. Fast switches can be arranged to turn off the transmitter in a time of the order of a microsecond. Under these conditions, it becomes difficult to determine the location of the breakdown. This correspondence describes an experiment to test the feasibility of locating the arc by measuring the time delay required for the sound from the arc to reach a microphone placed at some point in the waveguide."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"A theory for the Reggia-Spencer reciprocal ferrite phase shifter is presented which explains the characteristic behavior of this device in terms of a nonreciprocal coupling of cross-polarized waveguide modes. The dominant mode is a distorted TE/sub 10/-like mode similar to that of a dielectric slab-loaded waveguide. The cross-polarized mode is a hybrid mode which is below cutoff. If this mode propagates, Faraday rotation occurs. The boundary value problem for these modes, in a ferrite described by a scaIar, frequency-dependent permeability, is solved and theoretical design data is presented. The frequency-dependence of phase shift and the onset of Faraday rotation is predicted and compares well with experimental results."
"A class I hybrid junction, S/sub 13/= S/sub 23/; S/sub l4/= -S/sub 24/ is described consisting of two separate pairs of parallel transmission lines or transformers connected to conjugate ports 1 and 2 meeting at two central terminal pairs which are conjuate ports 3 and 4. An analysis is made in terms of the admittance and scattering parameters which reveals the \"magic tee\" matrix. Conjugate port isolation is infinite and equality of coupling is perfect in principle for all frequencies. The potentials at the central terminals of the hybrid junction are suitable for driving elements connected as a four-branch star. The four-diode star mixer/modulator is described and realizations in lumped elements, coaxial line, stripline, and waveguide are discussed. Data are reported for coaxial line models covering the frequency range of 1 to 8 GHz in octave bandwidths. Other applications are discussed."
"The problem of propagation in a waveguide containing E-plane slabs of dielectric was considered previously by several authors. However, their treatment was limited to the TE/sub mo/ modes. A more general and complete derivation of the dispersion equations for all the modes existing in these structures is presented here. It is shown, on the basis of theoretical and experimental results, that the frequency bandwidth is much smaller than the values previously obtained, considering only the TE/sub mo/ modes, for many cases of practical interest"
"An integral equation technique is presented which may be used to efficiently compute the Maxwellian capacitance matrix, i.e., the coefficients of capacitance and inductance, for any system of zero-thickness strip conductors located parallel to and between two ground planes, The TEM characteristic admittances for various operating modes and the coupling coefficients can then be obtained from the elements of this matrix. A single computer program based upon this technique can be used to compute the capacitance matrix for any particular strip line configuration desired and would thus be especially valuable to the design engineer who would like to quickly obtain accurate design curves for a previously unstudied configuration of ship conductors. This procedure gives much more accurate results in but a fraction of the computer time required when the more common finite difference equation approach is used, and it avoids the necessity for a separate mathematical analysis for each new strip line configuration, as would be required when using a conformal mapping technique. Illustrative results are given for several different strip-line configurations."
"The reflectivity of smooth water has been measured with a free-wave reflectometer at frequencies of 19.24 and 22.43 GHz and for temperatures between 0/spl deg/ and 40/spl deg/C. Reproducibility of the data for water temperatures below 20/spl deg/C is better than /spl plusmn/ 0.15 percent and the absolute accuracy of the reflectometer is thought to be /spl plusmn/ 0.5 percent. The results deviate significantly from the early reflectivity measurements of Saxton and Lane but agree to within experimental error with values calculated from the absorption cell measurements of Lane and Saxton."
"This paper describes the theory and construction of a broad-band, differential phase shifter for use over the frequency range of from 4.25 to 6.20 GHz. Perturbations of the phase shifter which cause it to deviate from the ideal 2/spl theta/ operation are discussed. The analysis follows that of Fox, but is carried out in the exponential form, and includes both phase and attenuation constants. A set of nonideal conditions are postulated: improper positioning and matching of the constituent components, improper electrical Iengths of the differential phase shift sections, and loss in the dielectric slabs. Expressions are derived for each of the above conditions that demonstrate the effect on the 2/spl theta/ operation of the phase shifter. Evaluation of the experimental model shows that it operates within the predicted limits of error, /spl plusmn/ 0.5/spl deg/."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"The annual IEEE International Microwave Symposium was held in Detroit, Michigan, on May 20-22, 1968. This important meeting of our professional group serves as the basis of stimulating and disseminating new techniques in the microwave field. This year´s meeting was the first to be held in the Midwest and was hosted by the Southeastern Michigan chapter of the professional group; the registered attendance was 493. The three-day program included several outstanding presentations. This year's attendance at the 1968 G-MTT International Symposium was large despite the general economic problem affecting research and developmental advances in our profession. However, it is felt that this year's symposium was a technical success and provided the professional and stimulating atmosphere which initiates, fosters, and promulgates new microwave ideas for the future."
"Several restriction are normally imposed on the type of transfer functions which can be realized as practical microwave filters. Conventional waveguide filter structures cannot realize general nonminimum-phase functions with transmission zeros in the right half-plane. These networks are, however, of great importance as much better combinations of phase and amplitude characteristics can be achieved through the use of these filters. In this paper a new type of filter is analyzed, in which reactive elements are combined in a special way with a magic-T or a 90-degree microwave hybrid. A synthesis procedure is given for the realization of transfer functions with zeros in any or both halves of the complex frequency plane. This realization leads to canonic networks with ladder type structures. It is also shown how antireciprocal phase shifters can be used to realize modulators, or special types of filter functions."
"A precise method of analysis of multiaperture waveguide directional couplers has been developed and used to investigate the performance of couplers designed both by conventional theories and by a new synthesis technique. The analysis is based on the equivalent four-port network of the coupler, the apertures being represented by lumped reactances in series and/or shunt with dispersive transmission lines, representing the waveguides. The effects of finite aperture dimensions and common wall thickness are taken into account. Many couplers designed on the usual basis of a first-order loose-coupling approximation have good directivity, even for tight (3 dB) coupling, but previous theories do not give the predicted directivity and are often far from optimum in design. A new synthesis technique based on the distributed low-pass prototype filter has been devised, and shown to give results close to the predicted performance. It has led to the construction of compact multiaperture directional couplers having directivity greater than 43 dB over complete waveguide operating bands."
"The study of new waveguide shapes requires an accurate knowledge of their higher order modes for bandwidth consideration, waveguide discontinuity analysis, and multimode launching and propagation studies. The finite-difference method solved by successive overrelaxation is a very accurate and general technique for dominant mode solution. The method makes minimum demand on computer store, the number of storage locations required being equal to the order of the matrix defining the system of linear equations used. Convergence criteria require that this matrix be positive semidefinite. For modes higher than the dominant, the method fails to converge as this condition is violated. Solution is obtained by redefining the problem such that the matrix is positive semidefinite for all modes. An algorithm is described which produces one row at a time of the new matrix, as required for successive overrelaxation, and thus reserves almost all computer store for the eigenvector. The eigenvector elements give field potentials at discrete points in the guide cross section. Iteration for higher order modes is successfully applied with all the computational benefits realized by previous finite-difference schemes for the dominant mode. Examples studied are the rectangular, circular, asymmetric ridge, and lunar guides. Results for higher order cutoff wave numbers are usually accurate to within 0.1 percent."
"Ultrahigh-speed switches for the 50 GHz frequency range utilizing avalanche breakdown in varactor diodes have been developed as transmitter-modulators for millimeter-wave PCM communication systems. By switching the diode between forward conduction and avalanche breakdown, better performance was obtained than with standard switching conditions. A typical switch of transmission type with a silver-bonded Ge varactor, GSB3C for an input power of +17 dBm at 48 GHz, gave an insertion loss of 3.5 dB with a maximum attenuation of 31 dB. Some of the distinctive characteristics of diode switches utilizing avalanche break-down in varactor diodes are discussed."
"A theoretical analysis is presented of microwave propagation on microstrip, with particular reference to the case of coupled pairs of microstrip lines. Data on this type of transmission line are needed for the design of directional couplers, filters, and other components in microwave integrated circuits. The inhomogeneous medium, consisting of the dielectric substrate and the vacuum above it, is treated in a rigorous manner through the use of a \"dielectric Green's function\" which expresses the discontinuity of the fields at the dielectric-vacuum interface. Results are presented in graphical form for substrate dielectric constants of 1, 9, and 16, and a range of values of width and spacing of the strips. Numerical tables for these and other cases are also available. The tables present capacitance, characteristic impedance, and velocity of propagation of the even and odd normal modes. The method lends itself to the treatment of other geometries which are of practical interest, such as \"thick\" strips, presence of an unsymmetrically located upper ground plane, etc."
"Longitudinally magnetized reciprocal ferrite phase shifters have shown anomalous behavior in that some devices show increasing phase shift with increasing applied field, while others show decreasing phase shift with increasing applied field. This anomaly has been investigated theoretically by using a ferrite-filled parallel plane guide model. It is shown that for electrically thin guides the phase shift decreases with applied magnetic field, whereas with increased thickness, the phase shift becomes an increasing function of the applied field. The microwave electric and magnetic fields were calculated for various applied field values and reduced guide thicknesses. This showed that there are two competing mechanisms which govern the type of phase shift. These can be termed /spl mu/-effective\" and \"Faraday rotation.\" The latter sets in when the guide is thick enough to support a cross-polarized electric field of the same order of magnitude as the incident electric field. Similar analysis of the quasi-TE/sub 1/ and TM/sub 1/ modes were made, showing similar behavior at higher frequencies for a given guide thickness. Experimented verification of the quasi-TM/sub 0/ mode was made by observing transmission resonances versus applied field of resonated sections of ferrite-loaded reduced height guide."
"The design of a high-power air-cooled microwave SPDT switch which is capable of operation at peak and average power levels of 500 kW and 666 watts, respectively, is described. The unit is of a differential phase shift circulator design employing 90/spl deg/ nonreciprocal phase shift elements which are forced air cooled. The phase shifter design employs dual ferrite toroids, \"floating\" in reduced height RG-51 waveguide. Two approaches are compared for heat sinking the phase shifter; namely the \"H-beam\" and the \"I-beam\" configurations. The results obtained indicate that the I-beam configuration is superior to the \"H-beam\" configuration. The switch exhibits an insertion loss of 0.6 dB maximum and isolation greater than 20 dB over a 100 MHz bandwidth centered at 9.375 GHz. The input VSWR of the switch over the frequency band is less than 1.28:1."
"A form of Iow-pass quasi-optical filter for millimeter-wave and possibly infrared applications is described which consists of thin layers of dielectric interspersed with arrays of thin metallic strips in a manner similar to an artificial dielectric. Equivalent circuits for filter half-sections of the type used were developed, and formulas and graphs are presented from which image parameters for such half-sections can be obtained. A design procedure is given from which multisection fiters of this type can be designed from low-pass lumped-element prototypes in order to give prescribed transmission characteristics. Some trial designs were worked out and fabricated for use in oversized waveguide, and their responses were computed in detail with a digital computer. Except for some higher order mode effects believed to be due to the standard-size to oversize waveguide tapers which were used, the measured responses were in good agreement with the theory. Stopband edge ratios between 3:1 and 4:1 are possible. Filter structures of this type are amenable to fabrication by techniques similar to those used in integrated circuit technology."
"Abstract-Plane waveguide modes excited on thin dielectric films in the visible spectrum are described and photographs of the modes of the first six orders, taken at the exit edge of the film, are shown. Photographs are also presented of interference patterns between separately excited modes, Measurement techniques based on the mode properties are discussed and the application of thin film techniques to integrated optical data processors is proposed."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"The increasing reliability requirements for low-voltage electric contacts has led to a search for methods which could make gold plated surfaces impervious to the effects of atmospheric pollutants. The susceptibility of thin gold plate to corrosion is due both to its inherent porosity and its removal by wear. Because of these breaks in the plate, pollutants can attack the substrate metal or underplate to produce insulating corrosion products. The best methods were the application of a pore-blocking corrosion inhibitor and a lubricant coating having a liquid component. They 'inhibited corrosion and wear effectively, without significantly increasing contact resistance compared to untreated samples."
"Presents a biography of George G. Litman, Member of G-PMP Administrative Committee."
"Over the past several years related design procedures have been devised whereby various resistance network functions normally achieved by a network of several discrete resistors are now obtained from functional resistive \"circuits.\" The realization results in novel structures which include conducting tabs placed on the perimeter of a geometrically shaped resistive film. Several resistance functions (attenuation and D-A decoding functions) can be provided simultaneously by using a single two-dimensional resistive film and a multiplicity of conducting tabs placed on its perimeter. Integrated resistive film networks offer several advantages over their lumped element equivalents. These include fewer interconnections, simple photolithography, built-in redundancy, and more uniform power dissipation. These advantages result in higher reliability, lower cost, and a more efficient use of the substrate area. When realized as tantalum integrated circuits, functional resistive networks offer high stability, high initial precision, low noise, resistance tracking, and small temperature coefficient of resistance."
"A criterion for describing the degree of balance of transformers is proposed and techniques for measuring balance in accordance with this criterion are described. Such a criterion provides a means for assigning a numerical value to the degree to which a transformer, under a particular set of operating conditions, can convert an unbalanced signal into a balanced signal or suppress unwanted longitudinal signals. It can be applied to any balanced passive system or any grounding arrangement that results in a balanced output. Although it is difficult to make a direct measurement of balance in accordance with this criterion, an indirect technique is proposed which is theoretically rigorous and permits measurements to be made under conditions that closely approximate the anticipated use conditions. These indirect measurements are relatively simple and satisfactory accuracy can be achieved with commercially available test equipment. The theory is verified by experimental data that show excellent agreement between the direct method and the proposed simplified method."
"A brief convenient method of examining the characteristics of the dielectric properties of paper specimens, and the experimental results using the gap variation method are · presented. The dielectric property measurement of paper specimens as thin as 30 microns is possible. Paper specimens of such a size can be measured one sheet at a time and need not be stacked to be measured, as is the case with conventional methods. The dielectric properties of a specimen that is kept air tight in a thinfilm polymer pouch can be measured with no effects from the ambient atmosphere."
"This paper presents the computer-aided design of three new distributed-resistance thin-film networks of various triangular, rhomboid, and V geometries. The triangular network may avoid two shortcomings of earlier rectangular networks: nonuniform current density and power dissipation in the resistance film and computational difficulty involved in elliptic function transformation. In distributed-resistance network design, uniform power dissipation is desirable for higher operational reliability and stability, and more efficient use of substrate area. Rhomboid and V networks appear attractive for applications requiring low and high insertion loss, respectively. A PCM decoder design using triangular networks is presented as an example to demonstrate the merits of the new geometry."
"This paper describes the failure mode due to corrosion at the contacting surfaces of static contacts in connectors and mechanical wiring connections. Copper static contacts with no mechanical separation fail to maintain electrical continuity when temperature-cycled from 20 to 200°C. Electron diffraction analysis and microscopic inspection show that this failure mode is due to growth of Cu2O film over all or part of the contacting surfaces. The lay? between the contact members is estimated to be 15 to 3250 A thick and the lifetime of the copper static contact at light loads is proportional to load."
"Presents a biography of Bernard Schwartz, General Chairman 1967 Electronic Components Conference."
"Presents a biography of Gustave Shapiro, Editor of IEEE Transactions on Parts, Materials and Packaging."
"The ideal four-port hybrid transformer is characterized by the following desirable properties: a biconjugacy between alternate sets of ports, an impedance match at each port, the ability to split power in any desired proportion between two receiving ports without incurring internal losses, and a 180° phase inversion in one of the four possible transmission voltage ratios. The necessary and sufficient conditions for obtaining these properties are reviewed for a number of useful configurations, which range from a simple tapped autotransformer to a two-core multiwinding device. Although these criteria are developed for an ideal transformer, it is possible to construct practical hybrid transformers, which exhibit satisfactory performance over one or more decades of bandwidth. Some of the problems in designing such transformers as well as additional useful applications of balanced winding transformers are discussed in brief."
"Communication between design engineers and researchers in materials is of prime importance to both. Design engineers unfamiliar with the latest developments in materials suffer progressive obsolescence. Research scientists need the guidance that comes from application of their work. This paper presents methods of achieving balanced two-way communication in committees, seminars, and symposia, including the responsibilities of participants for maximum effectiveness and the role of management in this segment of their total enterprise."
"Magnetic materials is an old subject poorly understood · by the majority of engineers. Recent research, particularly in magnetic films, has provided insights to understand and explain the behavior of the materials reacting to applied magnetic fields. Elementary domain theory is central to any significant comprehension. Dynamic behavior of nonlinear magnetic material cannot be analyzed entirely from the familiar B-H or hysteresis loop. However, the loop shape can be used to confirm behavior anticipated on the basis of domain theory and observation. Dynamic processes in magnetic material involve a change in the state, which is termed switching. A review of the fundamental principles pertinent to switching behavior and experimental data from a typical magnetic core are used to bring together theory and practical observation. Many recent applications of magnetic material require a more sophisticated understanding built upon such a knowledge of material behavior."
"Selection and specification of materials is an important part of the design and development process of the simplest component or the most complex system. It also is one of the most difficult and controversial items. The difficulties confronting the people involved in materials selection and specification are numerous, and can be divided into objective and subjective difficulties. The objective difficulties are the staggering and rapidly increasing number of materials available; the broad range of properties of such materials, depending on processing conditions; the numerous factors to consider in selection such as functional performance, manufacturability, availability, and cost, etc. The subjective difficulties center around the problems of information and communication--or, rather, the lack of these items. To avoid chaos that results in less-than-optimum performance, poor reliability, high cost, and further polarization of the people involved, the magnitude of the problem has to be realized. Furthermore, design engineers and materials specialists must be willing to communicate and to utilize the large number of available methods, devices, and vehicles in order to arrive at proper materials selection. This paper describes available sources of materials information, and surveys the communication vehicles between the designer and the materials specialist. It points out the responsibilities of both parties in providing proper input in the materials selection process. It also suggests some organizational approaches to provide optimum materials support for the design engineer."
"There exists a wide communications gap between electronics/electrical scientists and materials/chemical scientists. Both are vital to the successful development and engineering of electronic and electrical systems, and such end product systems can only be optimized by bridging this communications gap. Such communication bridges can be built by 1) proper organization and planning within the electronics company and by well-planned continuing education programs between materials and electronics scientists, and 2) improved communications between electronics and supplier companies by proper training of supplier company scientists in electronics product needs, and well-planned and oriented seminars and publications by supplier companies. Some ideas for achieving these objectives are presented in this paper."
"Critical information needed for the proper selection of ,materials to meet specific design, economic, and service conditions is becoming increasingly difficult to extract from the tremendous amount of published literature. The purpose of this paper is to inform engineers of the services of specialized information analysis centers, organized to combat this materials information explosion. The concept of information analysis centers is explained and the differences between these centers and other more common information sources, such as libraries, are distinguished. Descriptive information on several key centers concerned with materials information is tabulated for reference purposes. The scope and operations of the Electronic Properties Information Center (EPIC), as a typical information analysis center, are described. Emphasis is placed on the use of EPIC by engineers to obtain application-oriented information and data concerning the electronic, optical, and magnetic properties of materials. Dangers and problems associated with using handbook and vendor literature for electronic design purposes are discussed and contrasted with the usefulness of data and information generated by the Center itself. The unique role and qualifications of the scientific staff of the information centers, as a new type of materials specialist, are highlighted to attract scientists to this exciting new field of endeavor."
"Summary form only given, as follows. Henry C. Littlejohn (A '41-M '55) was born in New Britain, Conn., on July 22, 1916. He received the B.S. and 'M.S. degrees in electrical engineering from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Cambridge, in 1940. In 1940 he joined the General Radio Company to work on mechanical design and packaging of their electronic laboratory instruments. Early in 1952 he introduced to the company a standardization program embracing all the components, materials, and mechanical design features involved in the product. Responsibility for supervision of electromechanical design, standardization, and environmental testing was given him in 1960 when he was made an Engineering Group Leader. Appointment to the Engineering Administrative Committee charged with product development came in 1964. Recently he has added to the above duties that of overseeing the industrial design of the General Radio product line. He has actively participated in the Electronic Components Conference since 1965 as Publication Chairman."
"This newsletter consists of information that is of interest to APS society members. Includes recent events and meetings involving various APS chapters around the world, conference programs and committees, course announcements, publication information, and membership activities."
"Presents a message from the membership chairman."
"Presents the editorial for this issue of the newsletter."
"The editor notes that when he accepted the position of Editor of the GAP Newsletter he had little or no concept of what the job entailed. In fact he had no idea of what place the Newsletter had in our professional Lives. A note from his predecessor Wolf Kummer indicated that the purpose of the Newsletter is to disseminate information of non-archival value to members of the group. While the editor deems this a worthwhile purpose he would like the Newsletter to be something more, something better."
"Presents a message from the membership chairman."
"This newsletter consists of information that is of interest to APS society members. Includes recent events and meetings involving various APS chapters around the world, conference programs and committees, course announcements, publication information, and membership activities."
"Presents the editorial for this issue of the newsletter."
"Presents the back cover of the magazine issue."
"Presents the editorial for this issue of the newsletter."
"Presents the editorial for this issue of the newsletter."
"Presents a message from the membership chairman."
"Presents the editorial for this issue of the newsletter."
"Presents the editorial for this issue of the newsletter."
"This newsletter consists of information that is of interest to APS society members. Includes recent events and meetings involving various APS chapters around the world, conference programs and committees, course announcements, publication information, and membership activities."
"Presents the back cover of the magazine issue."
"Transient signal propagation in anisotropic, homogeneous cold plasmas is considered. The anisotropy is caused by an external longitudinal magnetic field. Using the saddlepoint method of integration, an approximate expression for the electric field is obtained. The envelope of a distorted rectangular pulse carrier is plotted for various magnetic fields, including the isotropic case."
"Gaussianilluminationsfor ap-proximate maximumpower transmission between two antennas with small Fresnel number are obtained. The power transmission efficiency corresponding to these illuminations is also evaluated, both analytically and explicitly. The antennas are focused at each other and have a circular shape."
"The purpose of this communication is to describe the construction and operating characteristics of a mercury arc discharge tube which allows the generation of a large volume of stable, high-intensity plasma for use in experimental work with plasma-clad antennas operating at a frequency of a few GHz."
"The beam tilt angle of a rotatable flush-mounted surface-wave antenna mounted on the underside skin of an aircraft varies as the antenna is mechanically scanned in azimuth. This beam tilt-angle variation results because the antenna is presented with a finite asymmetrical ground plane, which introduces a wide range of ground-plane conditions to the antenna as a function of azimuth angle. A method that can compensate partially for these beam tilt variations for low beam tilt angles is described."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"The radiation properties of a spherical phased-array antenna with circularly polarized elements are studied. Each antenna element is assumed to have a cosine type of field pattern. It is found that such an array is capable of providing complete hemispherical coverage without appreciable loss of gain. The radiation produced by the array stays circularly polarized in all directions, and the state of polarization is independent of beam steering. A special distribution of elements on a spherical surface is developed. This considerably suppresses the grating lobes in the pattern and thereby makes the antenna array broadband. Numerical calculations are made to determine the directivity and half-power beamwidth for the radiation patterns produced under various situations."
"A system is described which provides for the continuous measurement of the variation in apparent position of a discrete extraterrestrial radio source. Experimental examples are presented which illustrate the equipment performance."
"Semiconductor diodes were employed as electronic iris control elements to scan linear slot arrays atX-band. An iris cluster of four varactor diodes mounted inside the waveguide around each slot provided360\\degof phase control for slot coupling levels up to -15 dB and a reduced range of phase control for couplings up to -8 dB. Two linear arrays were fabricated with different iris cluster configurations: 1) A ten-slot array, with vertically mounted diodes, electronically scanned sum and difference patterns up to90\\deg; 2) a five-slot array, with horizontally mounted diodes, scanned sum patterns up to120\\deg. Both iris configurations had an RF power handling capability of about 0.1 mW."
"Some calculations are performed concerning the amplitude and phase fluctuations of a totally reflected monochromatic and homogeneous radio beam from a monotonically stratified tropospheric layer. In a first approximation the incident beam is considered to be collimated; the reflected beam is then also collimated but inhomngeneous along a cross section parallel to the interface. Next, a more realistic case is considered in which the incident beam is given by an angular bundle of rays corresponding to a certain radiation polar diagram of the transmitting source. Under this condition the totally reflected field presents a more complicated structure in space, since it manifests focusing or defocusing effects not only along the boundary of the layer but also with height from this interface. A numerical evaluation of these fluctuations with height is of special interest; in principle they may justify vertical space diversity efficiency in a number of typical cases concerning more especially obstructed microwave paths."
"A simple scalar method using Kirchhoff's boundary values is applied to the diffraction problems of circular, elliptical, and rectangular apertures for normally incident electromagnetic waves. As far as circular apertures are concerned, a simple formula can be derived not only for the diffraction pattern but also for the transmission coefficient. This formula yields good results for apertures greater than0.8\\lambda. Even in the ease of elliptical apertures a simple formula can he derived for the diffraction pattern. For the elliptical aperture, as well as the rectangular one, the transmission coefficient was found in the form of an integral. Relief models and diagrams are given for the transmission coefficients of the elliptical and the rectangular apertures as a function of the two aperture parameters. Diagrams are given which explain the dependence of the transmission coefficient on the aperture parameters. A comparison with other more complicated methods of approximation and with measurements shows both good agreement and the great practical value of the simple method of approximation used."
"A new integral equation is formulated for the current distribution of an electrically thick, cylindrical antenna which is driven by a voltage across a finite gap on an infinitely large ground plane. Compared to the conventional integral equation of Hallen, this equation has an additional source term which can be expressed in terms of both the radius of the antenna and the width of the gap. A numerical solution of the integral equation has also been obtained by a so-called \"approximate product-integration technique\" and the results have been compared with the experimental data of a monopole antenna driven by a coaxial transmission line over an infinitely large ground plane. When the circumference of the antenna is comparable to a free-space wavelength, the experiment verifies that the theoretical model with finite gap excitation describes the experimental situation more properly than either the conventional model of a delta-function excitation on both outside and inside surfaces of the antenna, or the King-Wu model of a delta-fanction excitation only on the outside surface."
"Mutual coupling between antenna elements in a phased array causes array performance to vary with scan angle. Large impedance mismatch and radiation loss can occur in certain critical directions for which the steering phase advances match the antenna coupling delays. At these critical scan angles, many coupling contributions add inphase to produce a large impedance mismatch and minimum radiation from the array. Several different phased arrays have exhibited scanning \"blind\" regions that appear to be a consequence of coupling accumulation. A large, flat, homogeneous antenna array is analyzed, and a relationship is found between the critical scan angles and phase of the mutual coupling coefficients. Extensive measurements on arrays of horn antennas have shown radiation minima that correlate with coupling phase measurements and with theory."
"According to the behavior of the current, an equiangular-spiral antenna may be divided into three distinct regions. Since the positions of these regions are frequency independent, it is possible to obtain a complete description of the current distribution on almost all practical equiangular-spiral antennas by a set of carves, which is given in this paper. It is also found that for rapidly expanding antennas there are, in general, two or more active regions that are characterized by differences in rate of attenuation. Such a phenomenon is interpreted in terms of the Brillouin diagram. A variational formulation of the input impedance of the antenna is also presented. The variation method using the approximate current provided by the set of curves gives a quick, direct means of finding the input impedances."
"Some numerical results obtained from an analysis of the admittance of an infinite cylindrical antenna excited at a circumferential gap of finite thickness and immersed in a lossy, compressible (warm) plasma are given. The linearized hydrodynamic equations are used for the electrons (ion motion is neglected). A free-space layer, or vacuum sheath, is used to approximate the ion sheath which forms about an object at floating potential in a nonzero temperature plasma. Values for the antenna admittance are obtained by a direct numerical integration of the Fourier integral for the current, and are presented as a function of frequency for plasma parameter values typical of theEregion of the ionosphere. The admittance exhibits a maximum below the plasma frequency unless the electron temperature and sheath thickness are both zero; however, above the plasma frequency, the sheath and electron temperature have relatively little effect on the antenna admittance. The nonzero plasma temperature considerably enhances the antenna conductance below the plasma frequency compared with the zero-temperature case while at the same time reducing the dependence of the conductance on the electron collision frequency. A susceptance zero the location of which is not sensitive to the vacuum sheath thickness occurs near the plasma frequency."
"An approximate theory for a doubly impedance loaded, traveling-wave linear antenna is presented. The distribution of current on the thin, cylindrical antenna is determined approximately in terms of its dimensions and the impedance and position of the lumped impedance loading. From this result, the optimum loading required to excite an outward traveling current wave along most of the cylinder is determined. Significantly, it is indicated that a purely reactive loading may be utilized if its location is properly chosen. Expressions for the input impedance and radiation fields of the traveling-wave antenna are presented. An experimental study is made of a traveling-wave cylindrical antenna utilizing a purely nondissipative loading. Numerical results from the theory are compared with experimental data, and an excellent agreement is noted. The technique described may be utilized to realize a high-efficiency traveling-wave antenna."
"The radiated power of an electric dipole antenna in a thin, dissipative, infinite conical plasma sheath is analyzed. The electromagnetic fields are represented by contour integrals, and the radiated power is calculated according to the method of Baños et al. The sheath is characterized by a single parameter, which is proportional to the integrated electron density and depends inversely on the electron collision frequency. The radiation pattern is distorted from the form of the free-space dipole pattern because of the interaction between the primary dipole fields and the fields induced on the surface of the plasma sheath. In most cases it is found that for small electron densities, electron collisions attenuate the induced surface fields so that the patterns approach their free-space form. For larger electron densities, the pattern has a characteristic heart shape for zero collision frequency. The pattern increases in magnitude, while retaining the same form, as the collision frequency increases from zero. As the collision frequency is further increased, the pattern approaches the free-space pattern in magnitude and form."
"Experimental measurements of short-pulse scattering by a slightly blunted, flat-back cone are described; the separation of tip and base returns is clearly indicated. An analysis of the data provides descriptions of the dependence of each scattering center on aspect angle and polarization. Comparison of the measured values with theoretical calculations generally shows good agreement. In addition, the results of an inverse-scattering analysis to determine target shape and size are presented."
"The backscatter from conducting and from dielectric spheres is considered in the time domain. Utilizing rigorously computed values of the amplitude and phase of the continuous wave backscatter, short pulses of electromagnetic waves are synthesized by Fourier series. The resultant response is examined as a function of time, and the individually resolvable returns are compared with some approximate theories."
"The high-frequency backscattered field produced by a plane electromagnetic wave incident on an inverse-square-power dielectric lens is determined in terms of reflected field, creeping wave, and evanescent wave contributions."
"For certain radio astronomical purposes in which only fringe amplitudes are of interest, it is shown that the correlating interferometer and the postdetection correlation interferometer are extreme ends of a spectrum of interferometer types. Intermediate-type interferometers have a higher signal-to-noise ratio than do postdetection interferometers yet do not require the phase stability of correlation interferometers."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"A technique of edge treatment for radar fences has been developed to provide greater suppression of radar clutter return than can be obtained with a simple straight-edge blocking fence. The technique incorporates two slots in proximity to, and parallel with, the upper edge of the fence. This configuration reduces the amplitude of the diffracted fields incident on the antenna aperture, and also provides an optimum distribution of these fields so as to result in minimum reception of the diffracted signal. Calculations show that a significant improvement is obtained over the performance of a straight-edge fence of the same maximum height as a double-slot fence. A program of measurements of the double-slot fence has been conducted at millimeter wavelengths, and the results have shown excellent agreement with the calculations. For a single elevation angle of clutter return, the double-slot fence has a measured two-way suppression of 64 dB, compared with 28 dB for the straight-edge fence."
"Quasi-confocal modes for a gyro-medium filled beam waveguide are derived. The axis of beam propagation is taken coincident with the gyro-axis of the medium. The modes are found to be circularly polarized with dispersion characteristics similar to circularly polarized plane waves propagating along the gyro-axis of the medium. The addition of such a medium can thus introduce propagation cutoffs and resonances previously not present in the beam waveguide. The characteristic beam diameter and the phase correction necessary to maintain a mode are found to depend on the circular polarization of the mode. The example of a lossless gyro-plasma medium is discussed."
"It is sometimes convenient to have available a source of arbitrarily polarized waves. A simple source for this purpose is described here. Two angles of rotation or one angle of rotation and a variable phase shift in a waveguide system establish any desired polarization on the axis of a circularly symmetric radiator."
"The reflection coefficient of parallel-plate waveguide apertures is analyzed by wedge diffraction theory for the TEM and TE01modes. Results are compared with those obtained by other analyses for the special case of the normally truncated guide mounted in a ground plane and for that with thin walls. Measured values of reflection coefficient are used as verification of results for other guide geometries. The method gives accurate results for guide widths as narrow as\\lambda/4."
"The reflection coefficient for an array of identical nonuniformly corrugated plates phased to launch a plane wave in any direction is calculated exactly. The plate spacing is limited only by the grating lobe condition, and the corrugations in each plate may be of arbitrary depth, or the bottom of each corrugation may be terminated in an arbitrary admittance. The conditions for the occurrence of a surface wave effect, corresponding to a total array mismatch or a null in the element pattern, are derived in general for arrays having an adjustable short-circuited parasitic element (such as a corrugation) with each driven element. It is shown that the existence of such a surface wave effect often can be predicted solely from the symmetry of the array in question. The optimum position of the short circuit for the best match also is discussed. Although corrugated plate arrays can be deliberately adjusted to exhibit a surface wave phenomenon in theHplane, the effect is easily avoided for the most practical ranges of scan. Design data are given for an array with one corrugation per plate for varying amounts ofE-plane andH-plane scan, and for scanning within an octant of a sphere."
"A systematic method for designing a phased array element that is matched over a wide scan region is presented. Measured coupling coefficients from a small array of trial elements, combined with computer simulation, yield the design parameters of an individual element matching obstacle. These obstacles will optimize the match versus scan characteristics when properly inserted within the element channels. The method presented has been used to optimize the match versus scan characteristic of a circularly polarized coaxial horn type of element over a 15 percent bandwidth. A close agreement between the predicted and measured returned powers has been observed over the frequency band for a broad scan region."
"An approximate formula is presented for the admittance of a cylindricul antenna where the length is large and the diameter is small compared with the excited wavelength. A comparison of admittance results obtained from this formula is made with the more accurate results of Hurd and Wu."
"A numerical method is presented for the computation of backscattering cross section per unit length for parallel polarization at normal incidence of a plasma-clad metal cylinder. The technique employed is well suited for use on present-day high-speed computers. The method is capable of handling plasmas varying in an arbitrary manner in the radial direction."
"An array phasing device is described which uses IF frequency multiplication and heterodyning to obtain a series of microwave signals at progressively related phase angles. The unique feature of this device is that it requires only one precision phase shifter for each direction of scan."
"The results are presented of an experimental investigation of the effect of the human body on small-sized radio communication systems equipped with whip antennas. For a frequency range of approximately 30 to 150 MHz, the qualitative relations are defined between, on the one band, the space configuration of an antenna system and the operator's body, and, on the other hand, electrical parameters such as impedance, radiation pattern, and especially gain."
"The electric current and surface electron distributions for a dipole antenna in a compressible plasma are solved numerically. The results also include the input impedance and the upper limit of the driving voltage below which the small signal approximation is valid."
"Far field patterns of large circular loop antennas of circumferences up to two and one-half wavelengths were calculated using Storer's theory for the current distribution on the antenna. To verify the theory, radiation pattern measurements were made at 3 GHz; the experimental results are in good qualitative agreement with theory."
"Measurements of the variation of the incident angle were made on several line-of-sight paths, together with the simultaneous observation of the refractive index gradient of the atmosphere. Statistics of incident angle variation andM-gradient and their relations were analyzed. Radio refraction is dependent on the atmospheric layer thickness in which radio waves are propagated. Considering the controlling layer thickness, a method of predicting refraction variation is presented for arbitrary radio paths and meteorological conditions. The measurements of the incident angle were found to agree well with the estimated refraction."
"The theory and experimental results are presented for an electronically scanned array antenna using multiple wavelength ferrite aperture elements at millimeter wavelengths. The theory for the individual element scanner is given, along with the experimental patterns. Curves showing the tradeoffs of aperture size, scan capability, and efficiency are plotted for the element scanners. A five-element array employing the element scanner as elements was analyzed, constructed, and tested experimentally. The constructed array scanned50\\deg(\\pm25\\deg)with a scan speed of 50 milliseconds."
"A generalization of the Woodward-Lawson synthesis method is introduced for a wide class of apertures (including as particular cases the rectangular, the rhombic, and the hexagonal). By resorting to a rather general type of bidimensional Fourier series expansion, the aperture distribution is obtained as a superposition of orthogonal constant amplitude linearly phased components, whose complex amplitude coefficients are the values of the radiation pattern in a regular lattice of \"cardinal points\" on which the desired pattern function is exactly matched As a numerical application of the method, two examples of pattern synthesis with a hexagonal aperture are treated in detail."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"It is shown that there is a class of linear arrays which achieves maximum resolution for a given number of elements by minimizing the number of redundant spacings present in the array. For many-element arrays the degree of redundancy will approach 4/3. Applications of such arrays to aperture synthesis are discussed."
"A procedure is presented for the maximization of the expected signal-to-noise ratio improvement factor for arbitrary antenna arrays whose excitation amplitudes and phases, as well as element positions, are subject to random errors. In its general form, the formulation imposes no restrictions on either the probability distribution or the variance of the random errors. Correlations are allowed to exist between the random variations in array parameters, and the effect of system internal noise is considered. Computed results for a linear endfire array in a typical noise environment are given, illustrating the dependence of the signal-to-noise ratio improvement factor on the system internal noise; the system bandwidth; the amplitude, phase, and position errors; and the error correlation intervals. Typical expected power pattern functions are also plotted."
"The plasma sheath caused by pulsed RF breakdown in helium outside the aperture of a waveguide radiator has been probed. The highest measurable phase shifts and attenuation changes caused by the plasma were compared with those calculated on the basis of a slab model. The results are consistent with an effective thickness of the plasma sheath of about 1 cm, and electron densities in the active sheath being considerably in excess of the critical value."
"A numerical technique has been used to solve the integral equation determining the current distribution on a finite cylindrical antenna in a long plasma column; a \"cold\" isotropic plasma model with a relative dielectric constant\\epsilon_{r} = 1 - \\omega_{p}^{2}/\\omega^{2}is used in the analysis. Collision losses and inhomogeneities in the plasma have been ignored for the sake of mathematical simplicity. It is found that when0 < \\epsilon_{r} < 1, the plasma column tends to behave like a dielectric and reduces the effective electrical length of the antenna. The current distribution is still somewhat sinusoidal but with a longer wavelength. In the range-1 < \\epsilon_{r} < 0, the antenna characteristics undergo a drastic change; the current decays very rapidly along the antenna and, for antennas longer than a quarter wavelength, the input admittance remains almost constant and independent of the length. Extensive experimental measurements have been made to verify the theory. The plasma sheath surrounding the antenna was produced by an active, hot.cathode, helium discharge; the plasma diagnostic measurements were made by using Langmuir probes and cavity perturbation techniques. The theoretical and experimental results show a significant degree of qualitative agreement."
"A broadband hybrid-junction radiometer operating at 2700 MHz is described. It employs twin receiving channels, each with two-stage synchronously pumped degenerate paramps, and has an overall effective bandwidth of 200 MHz. Installed on the 210-ft radio telescope at Parkes, New South Wales, it gives a system noise temperature of80\\degK and an rms recorder fluctuation of0.006\\degK for a 2-second smoothing time constant."
"The effect of a plasma on the radiation characteristics of slot and gap apertures located on cylinders and cones has been studied by means of a plasma simulation technique. The relative index of refraction of less than unity between the plasma and free space was maintained for the model by an analog tank in which free space was represented by a high dielectric constant liquid and plasma by a lower dielectric material. The antenna pattern of an axial slot on a cylinder with a simulated plasma covering had good agreement with theory for radiation in the equatorial plane, as did the antenna pattern for a simulated plasma-covered, center-fed, cylindrical antenna. The experimental pattern of a cavity-fed circumferential slot on a cone-hemisphere covered with simulated plasma is also presented."
"A correlation radiometer is described in which the input signal is divided amongpamplifiers. The outputs of thepamplifiers are cross-correlated in all possible combinations and the cross-products added to give the system output. It is shown that aspgoes to infinity the sensitivity of the radiometer approaches that of an ideal total-power system. A practical system of six amplifiers offers an improvement of 2.2 dB over a conventional two-amplifier correlation radiometer, or an improvement of 5.2 dB over a Dicke system."
"The radiation fields from an electric dipole antenna in homogeneous Antarctic terrain are analyzed. The terrain is represented as a semi-infinite ice medium with a complex dielectric constant dependent upon temperature and frequency. The space and ground waves from a horizontal dipole are evaluated initially for different ice conditions. Similar evaluations arc extended to a vertical dipole to apply superposition to the general case of an inclined dipole in Antarctic ice."
"A general formulation is presented which treats with accuracy the perfectly conducting antenna, the uniformly resistive antenna, the tapered resistive antenna, and the multiple impedance loaded antenna. The current distribution is obtained in analytic form that is easily used to obtain the effective length and radiated field. The presented theory has application in traveling-wave antenna design. Traveling-wave antennas are of interest for broadband and directional communication. Extensive numerical results are obtained, and comparisons are made with experimental data. The results indicate the feasibility of cylindrical traveling-wave antennas."
"First-order (small roughness amplitude) scattering theory is applied to obtain sea clutter cross sections in terms of mean-squared height spectrum of the sea surface. The results are in remarkably good agreement with observations for vertical polarization atP-, L-, C-, andX-bands. Modification of the calculation to take into account the larger scale structure of the sea surface yields reasonable agreement for horizontal polarization atP- andL-bands but is less successful for the cross-polarized and horizontal cross sections atC- andX-bands."
"The effect on Faraday rotation caused by stratification in an ionized medium and in semiconductor samples is examined. Expressions for rotation are derived in closed form for linear, exponential, and parabolic electron density profiles, including the effects of reflection at the boundaries. An expression in the form of a series is also derived for a general polynomial type of electron concentration variation. The change in rotation due to the deviation from the equivalent homogeneous carrier distribution is then examined for some experimental conditions in semiconductors and in the ionosphere."
"Digital computer predictions of aperture antenna patterns are shown to be far more complete, in terms of information concerning the field vectors over virtually unrestricted angular sectors and even at short distances, when vector rather than scalar diffraction theory is applied."
"A method of feeding a 128-element circular array by means of anR-2Rparallel plate lens is presented. The method uses the lens fed by three or four probes at the periphery to excite 32 or 33 elements with the proper amplitude and phase to produce low sidelobe patterns over a broad frequency band. Experimental results are given."
"Beam steering for a linear array is discussed in terms of the independent angular steering of each zero in the directional pattern. The discussion is centered on the zero-steering network of Davies. The binomially weighted case is also derived."
"This communication deals with the reflecting behavior of one spherical concave smooth atmospheric boundary in over-the-horizon radio propagation. First, the author examines how the convergence coefficient varies as a function of the ratio of the path length to the radius of curvature of the layer under different grazing angles. Next, the influence of the curvature on the mechanism of total internal reflection, regarding a subrefractive layer, is considered. Comparison of the obtained results with those corresponding to the case of a plane interface is also discussed."
"Theoretical and experimental data are given for a truncated cone which can be used as a model support in anechoic chamber work. It is concluded that such a support when fabricated from a low-density plastic foam is superior to that of a cylindrical column."
"The feasibility of using a direct numerical integration of physical optics fields for computing radiation patterns of ground-based HF-VHF antennas in the presence of known ground irregularities is examined. The initial study treats a special case of a line source above a perfectly conducting plane with a semicylindrical boss. This case permits a comparison of results computed using physical optics formulations to the exact values. The agreement is gratifyingly close, which justifies an extension of such a study to a three-dimensional case."
"The dc characteristics of electrostatic probes can be modified considerably by the presence of an RF voltage across the junction between the probe and the plasma. Data are presented showing typical examples of such modification of double probe characteristics. It is shown how a correct probe characteristic can be obtained by proper design of the probe and measuring circuit."
"A graphical comparison is shown between exact and approximate backscattering widths for dielectric cylinders with both polarizations, up to relatively high frequencies. Some of the phenomena responsible for the behavior of the scattering cross section are examined and interpreted physically."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"A study on the minimization of the backscattering of a conducting loop by the impedance loading method is presented. A conducting circular loop loaded symmetrically with two identical lumped impedances is assumed to be illuminated by a plane electromagnetic wave at normal incidence. The induced current on and the backscattered field by the loaded loop are determined. The optimum impedance loading for zero backscattering is obtained. The optimum reactive loading for minimum backscattering is also studied. An experiment was conducted to verify the theory."
"The power transfer efficiency between two circular aperture antennas in the Fresnel region is obtained analytically and explicitly. They are focused at each other and illuminated as a simple Gaussian taper. Two apertures also have generally different sizes and unequal illuminations. It is shown that the Gaussian distribution is close to the optimum, which is derived from the theory of the confocal optical resonators. The effect of the deviation of the illumination from the optimum upon the efficiency is numerically evaluated. The result shows that the reduction of the efficiency for a constant deviation increases as the Fresnel number decreases. The dissimilarity of both aperture illuminations also reduces the efficiency. The qualitative trend is such that the larger the dissimilarity, the smaller the efficiency. When the order of dissimilarity is small or the taper of the aperture is large, the efficiency can be approximately predicted by assuming equal illumination with the geometrical mean of the two illuminations. A simplified approximate efficiency which can be applied to the greatly tapered illumination is also derived."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"A numerical procedure is presented for computing the transfer impedance between two antennas located above a two-dimensional ground surface of known contour. The antennas are either both horizontally or both vertically polarized, and may have arbitrary radiation patterns in the vertical plane. The antennas are assumed to be high enough above the ground so that surface wave coupling is negligible but close enough so that a significant portion of the received power arrives via ground scattering. For purposes of computation, the ground is divided into a series of connected (infinite) planar strips of identical projected width. The net scattered field is computed using Green's theorem applied to each strip individually but neglecting edge effects and multiple scattering. The practical utility of this technique has been tested in a limited way by measuring the variation in coupling between two identical horizontally polarized horn-aperture antennas over a single ground contour. Provided the baseline profile is surveyed carefully at the time the coupling measurements are made, the numerical predictions are seen to be in reasonable agreement with the test data."
"Using the differential equation approach an exact formal solution for the fields due to an axial electric dipole in the presence of a homogeneous isotropic infinite circular cylinder is obtained in integral form. An asymptotic expansion of the integral yields the far field. Patterns for different choices of the parameters are given. It is seen that for dielectric cylinders in particular, drastic departures from the perfectly conducting case can be obtained leading to more directive patterns. This in turn may have application in the design of arrays."
"The characteristics of a monopole antenna embedded in an anisotropic cylinder of semi-infinite length were studied. The anisotropic medium was created artificially by thin layers of lossless material whose dielectric constant alternated between two values, 15.0 and 1.06. A theoretical and experimental analysis was carried out for the axially anisotropic (uniaxial) orientation of the dielectric medium with curves shown for input admittance and current distribution. An experimental investigation was also carried out for the radially anisotropic orientation with measurements made for the input admittance, axial charge distribution, and the angular and axial current distributions."
"The conventional problem of two arbitrarily located parallel antennas is solved by using an integral equation technique. The two simultaneous integral equations for the two antennas are first decoupled into two independent integral equations and then solved by an approximate method with currents represented by five trigonometric functions, three for the symmetric and two for the antisymmetric parts. Typical current distributions and input admittances are obtained for half-wave and full-wave antennas in nonstaggered, in45\\degechelon, and in collinear arrangements. For the nonstaggered case, the results agree with experimental data. For the other two arrangements, no experimental data are yet available. However, the current distribution is also obtained by a numerical method. The two theoretical results agree favorably for all three cases. The five-term method can be extended to a general array ofN-parallel elements. This is reserved for a further report."
"The mutual admittance between two identical planar radiating apertures can be expressed as the bidimensional Fourier transform of a function (defined in the wavenumbers plane), obtained by taking the inner product of the plane wave spectrum (representing the field radiated by the element) by another plane wave spectrum obtained from it by reversing the sense of propagation of each component wave. The asymptotic evaluation of the expression shows that (under certain limitations) the mutual admittance, for large spacing among the radiators, tends to be proportional to the power radiation pattern on the plane of the aperture. By using the formalism here introduced the \"grating lobes series\" for the driving point admittance of an element in an infinite periodic array can be simply derived from the \"mutual admittances series.\" As a check of the theory the mutual admittance between rectangular slots, in different relative positions, has been numerically calculated."
"A simple expression for the image radiation of an array of line sources parallel to a conducting strip is derived, in terms of the known image radiation from the same sources above an infinite ground plane. Simple criteria are presented for the minimum strip width which will produce essentially the same image radiation as an infinite ground plane, for angles above the strip plane greater than some prescribed value."
"The classical optics of the spherical reflector is reviewed and extended with particular application to the focal region. The caustic surface, axial caustic, and circle of least confusion are described in detail. The manner in which the reflected rays combine in the focal region is then developed. In general, three reflected rays intersect at any field pointP(Pon the interior of the caustic surface, but off the axial caustic). The points of incidence of the three rays and their optical path lengths from a common reference plane are calculated, providing the necessary phase and divergence information for the focal region."
"In order to study the traveling-wave mode, short-pulse scattering experiments were performed using a long wire (long compared to the pulsewidth). For near end-on incidence, three resolved pulses were measured. The first pulse was verified to originate at the rear end of the wire, and the second and third pulses from distances one and two wire lengths behind the first pulse. These pulses are theoretically explained in terms of traveling waves reflected and diffracted at both ends of the wire. The short-pulse scattering data are in agreement with theory."
"Two methods of calculating the monostatic and bistatic scattering by an open circular loop are briefly discussed. Theoretical and experimental backscatter results are presented that show how the echo area varies when a straight wire is curved into an arc of decreasing radius of curvature. For small radii of curvature, an interesting resonance phenomenon is observed."
"In this communication, a simple formula for the minimum attenuation of incoming plane waves in spherical shields is presented for practical purposes. This worst case condition is attained when the TM011resonance occurs in the room. The medium inside and outside the shield is air and the material is supposed to be well conducting."
"It is shown that the usual formula for the backscatter cross section of a turbulent dielectric cylinder is valid in the near zone."
"This communication describes atmospheric refractive index measurements made on top of Mt. Evans at an elevation of 14 250 feet. Spectra for a single sensor and for the differences between sensors are reported. In addition, amplitude distributions and structure functions are presented. These results were found to be very- similar to those obtained from like measurements made at Austin, Tex. and previously reported."
"Geophysical exploration in polar areas is described with phase variations in very low frequency ground wave propagation from homogeneous and stratified ice to sea water. \"Recovery effect\" phase variations for mixed paths with homogeneous media are markedly different from those in a stratified media."
"The geometrical theory of diffraction is used to predict the radar cross section of a double wedge shape. Theoretical and experimental results are shown to be in excellent agreement."
"The tangential electric field excited on the conducting surface of a transmitting antenna is calculated by modifying a variational impedance formulation. For an antenna in a magnetoionic medium, the boundary condition requiring that the tangential electric field vanish on the surface is satisfied to approximately the same degree as for dielectric coated antennas, where the variational solution can be verified by comparisons with experimental and other theoretical studies."
"Plasmas associated with rocket engine exhausts have relatively high collision frequencies. It is shown that conventional approximations are not valid for this case, and a nomogram is presented to facilitate the exact analysis."
"It is shown that dielectric plugs used to load the waveguides in a phased array can cause resonances such that a complete reflection takes place at certain scan angles. The difference in the characteristics of the resonances as compared to those of arrays covered by dielectric slabs is also pointed out."
"A new method is proposed for evaluating the radiation characteristics of a test planar-aperture antenna from its near-field behavior. The technique is based on calculating the Fourier transform of the autocorrelation function describing the measured output of a probe located in the near field of the test antenna. The method is established in practice with the aid of experimental results using horn, horn-reflector, and paraboloidal antennas. It is shown that the method is relatively simple and leads to a significant improvement in the accuracy of the gain and radiation pattern of antennas when compared with present methods."
"Applications exist in which dielectric structural-support rods must be placed in an electromagnetic field parallel to theEvector. Scattering of power by these rods can be greatly reduced by embedding one or more inductive wires within the dielectric to tune out its capacitance. Such a tuned dielectric rod has been designed and tested."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"The input admittance of a circular waveguide opening onto an infinite flange with a homogeneous lossy dielectric coating is derived using integral transforms and assuming the dominant TE11mode as the trial field at the aperture. Admittance calculations for low-loss dielectric sheets of various thicknesses are given and compared with measurements obtained using ground planes of varying sizes. Excellent agreement with theory is obtained for the circular waveguide terminated into a square ground plane only1\\lambdato2\\lambda. on a side. A quantitative comparison of the surface wave contribution to the total admittance is also given."
"A new method for the synthesis of line.source antenna patterns having prescribed sidelobe envelope functions is discussed. The patterns obtained are inherently nonsupergained and, in the sense of Taylor patterns, approach the narrowest beamwidth for the given sidelobe behavior. Sample patterns and corresponding aperture distributions, together with required design parameters, are given. The sidelobe envelope functions for those patterns having maximum gain for a given maximum sidelobe level are also presented."
"The idealized surface wave radiator considered here is a thick, semi-infinite plane with a reactive surface. The scattered field is found when symmetrical and unsymmetrical surface waves are radiated at the termination of the plane. Since there are semi-infinite boundary conditions, the Wiener-Hopf technique is used for finding equations describing the scattered field. These equations contain a series of unknown constants which require numerical solution. Field patterns are plotted for different plane thicknesses and surface reactances with even excitation. The scattering of a plane wave by a thick, reactive plane is also discussed briefly."
"The polarization of the reflection of a uniform plane wave incident on a spherical reflector is analyzed using the current distribution method for scattered fields. The current distribution on the reflector is derived. For reflectors subtending about60\\degor less, the radiation scattered in the direction of the circle of least confusion has essentially the same polarization as that reflected specularly from the tangent plane. The effective current, the component of surface current density radiating toward the focal region, is derived in several representations. Assuming\\hat{i}incident polarization, contour plots are provided for\\hat{i},\\hat{j}, and\\hat{k}components in spherical coordinates. Next, general formulas are derived for the\\hat{i},\\hat{j},\\hat{k}components of the reflected fields, in terms of the direction cosines of the normal to the reflecting surface. These are displayed in terms of projections, and apply directly to the spherical reflector."
"An experimental study was made to isolate the types of probe errors made in measuring electrical boundary conditions and nearfield waves over the surfaces of metal diffracting objects and antennas. Because their patterns could be calculated for comparison with measurements, thin metal disks were employed ranging in diameters from 0.1 to 10 wavelengths. The microwave wavelengths ranged from 2 to 80 cm and the probe sizes ranged from 0.50 to 0.01 wavelength long. The probes consisted of wire dipoles with the microwave circuits confined to the detector capsule at the centers of the dipoles. Three types of probe errors were studied: 1) multiple reradiation between probe and surface of object when the axis of the probe is parallel to the surface, 2) bringing the tip of the probe closer than a hundredth of a wavelength from the surface of the object when the fields between the tip and the surface are shaped like electrostatic fields and found to be grossly affected by changes in the spacing, and 3) lengths of probes large compared to the radius of curvature of the lines of force, a limiting case in the measurement of fields near the edges of metal sheets."
"Series networks for feeding an array antenna are attractive because they can be designed compactly. A series \"ladder\" network is available which is particularly applicable for feeding a monopulse array antenna since it has complete independent control of the sum and difference excitations, minimum dissipative loss, and physical symmetry. This network consists of primary and secondary transmission lines feeding two sets of directional couplers that are interconnected to resemble a ladder. To obtain physical symmetry, the ladder is fed at the center by two hybrid junctions and an additional directional coupler. An experimental array fed by a ladder network was fabricated and tested. The design objectives of 25 dB sidelobe suppression for the sum and difference mode patterns were achieved."
"Monopulse tracking operation with continuously variable beamwidth may be obtained by antenna defocusing. To demonstrate this property, antenna patterns (including phase) of a square aperture for large amounts of defocusing have been computed by diffraction theory for the case of highly tapered illumination in both the sum and difference antenna modes. From an examination of the computed patterns over a 10 to 1 beamwidth range, it is shown that with the increasing defocusing, the patterns in the sum and difference modes exhibit smoothly increasing width. Some change of shape is noted, but the pattern amplitudes and phase relationships are still suitable for on-axis tracking or off-axis location by monopulse techniques. To achieve monopulse operation with the defocused patterns two modifications to ordinary monopulse receivers are necessary. A phase shifter, inserted in the difference or sum channel and ganged to the amount of defocusing, is needed to cancel the phase variation with defocusing. In addition, amplitude correction is required to keep the error-signal slope constant."
"This paper investigates the problem of diffraction of an incident plane wave by a half-plane with a finite thickness. The generalized scattering matrix procedure, which has been found useful for attacking waveguide discontinuity problems, is shown to apply to open region problems as well. Based on this procedure, a highly convergent Neumann Series solution is derived, and numerical calculations are presented for a wide range of parameters. The method of solution is not restricted to sufficiently thin half-planes only, as is the one discussed by Jones, although the labor in numerical calculation increases with increasing thickness. Comparisons with Jones' results show good agreement in the range where his results are valid. New results are presented for the extended range of thickness of the half-plane. Two other related problems, viz., those of radiation from a waveguide loaded with a dielectric or plasma medium, and diffraction by an inhomogeneously loaded waveguide, are also investigated in this paper."
"A modified iterative approach suitable for use with a modern digital computer is presented for designing unequally spaced arrays with nearly equal sidelobes. The method allows inclusion of spacing constraints in the design procedure with the result that certain practical difficulties encountered with the results of other computational schemes are avoided."
"The radiation admittance and effective power transmission coefficient are derived by a field matching method for arbitrary scan of an infinite array of open rectangular waveguides. Higher order waveguide modes, as well as higher order modes in the free space cell above the array, are included in the field matching problem. The convergence of the solution was studied, and the number of external free space and internal waveguide modes necessary for an adequate answer are given. Numerical results are obtained and compared with previous theory and with experiment for rectangular grids. Comparison is also made with experiment on a triangular grid which exhibited an anomalous notch in the element pattern. The experimental results in both cases seem to substantiate the theory, at least to the extent that could be expected from the small test arrays that were used for the measurements. The comparison indicates that the method of analysis includes all of the necessary features required for the study of mutual coupling effects in infinite arrays of rectangular waveguides having thick walls."
"A generalized approach to a solution of the aperiodic phased-array problem, and derived periodically modulated surfaces, is possible by an extension, using linear superposition, of the solutions for the related periodic phased array. This approach can be applied to any aperiodic array of elements such as planar arrays of waveguides, or dipoles, or thick walled parallel-plate arrays. It also leads to the solution for the dispersion relation, in terms of the periodic phased-array solution, for the surface of short-circuited waveguide clements; the short circuit depth being periodically modulated along the surface."
"The admittance of a waveguide-fed rectangular aperture under an inhomogeneous plasma is derived and experimentally verified. For both flowing and stationary inhomogeneoas plasmas, the agreement is at least as accurate as presently available plasma diagnostic techniques will allow. It is shown that there is a clear separation of the dependence of aperture-admittance properties upon plasma properties, such as electron density, profile shape and collision frequency, over two to three decades of peak electron density, change. The collision frequency primarily affects the aperture conductance, particularly for critical and overdense plasmas. The profile shape, i.e., a boundary layer, primarily affects the aperture susceptance."
"A new technique for modifying the backscattering cross section of a metallic sphere is presented. This method consists of attaching thin, loaded wires symmetrically to the sphere. When this composite structure is illuminated by a plane wave, currents are induced on the sphere and the loaded wires. The induced current on the wires can be modified by the proper adjustment of loading impedance in such a way that the total backscattering from the composite structure is either minimized or maximized. Experimental and theoretical studies on this method are presented and the results compared. A technique for bandwidth improvement of this method is also included."
"The average number of specular points per unit area for a two-dimensionally rough surface is derived in terms of the surface statistics. Expressions for the average of the product of the principal radii of curvature of the specular point are also obtained. These quantities are then substituted into the average scattering cross section per unit area derived from the stationary-phase approach, and two probability models are considered. The results are general and apply to bistatic as well as backscatter, and are valid for finitely as well as perfectly conducting surface materials."
"Exact numerical solutions are given for the interaction of a plane, electromagnetic wave with a cylindrical plasma. The incident wave is normal to the plasma axis and both TE and TM polarizations are considered. The electron density profile is represented by a Gaussian curve consistent with flow-field calculations for wakes and jets. Transmitted and scattered amplitudes are evaluated as functions of the polar angle and plasma parameters. The data are compared with previous theoretical and experimental work. [17],[18] Parabolic electron density profiles are also investigated and contrasted with the Gaussian results. The sharp cutoff in a parabolic profile has a significant effect on the electromagnetic interaction. Applications to microwave diagnostics are discussed including a new bistatic method."
"An antenna design innovation has been developed which provides high power handling capability in low pressure air, and may be used to reduce near-field plasma losses."
"The admittance of an infinite cylindrical antenna excited at a circumferential gap of nonzero thickness and immersed in a lossy, isotropic compressible plasma medium is obtained from numerical calculations, taking into account the inhomogeneous ion sheath which forms about a body at floating potential in a warm plasma. The admittance for the inhomogeneous sheath is found to be fairly similar to that for the sheathless case, with the exception of a rather sharp maximum or resonance in the admittance just below the plasma frequency which results from the sheath inhomogeneity."
"Considerable attention has been devoted to the anomalies in the radiation pattern of a phased-array antenna aperture covered with a dielectric sheet. This phenomenon appears as a notch in the element radiation pattern at a scan angle smaller than that commensurate with the appearance of the grating lobes in real space. This communication discusses the observation of this phenomenon in a 96-element phased array of triangularspaced waveguide radiators utilizing a dielectric impedance matching transformer on the radiating aperture. The effect of the dielectric sheet on the aperture was observed both as a deep notch in the radiation pattern of the central element (with the remaining 95 elements terminated) and in \"lost beams\" as the 96-element phased-array beam was steered to the angles corresponding to the element pattern nulls. Further, these data are in good agreement with reflection coefficient maxima measured in waveguide array simulators."
"Higher order modes can exist in the corrugated horn if the corrugations are initiated at a position from the throat such that the separation between the two walls exceeds3/2 \\lambda. These modes then produce patterns which are now frequency-dependent and in one case have exceptionally low sidelobes."
"Radiation fields from a horizontal dipole antenna in stratified Antarctic media are described with ground and space waves. The stratified media of Antarctica are upper layers of ice above lower layers of soil and sea water. Horizontal dipole field descriptions are made initially in terms of the media parameters. These parameters are the ice temperature, depth, and signal frequency for the upper layer, and conductivity, dielectric constant, and signal frequency for the lower layer."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Two new resonant antennas are discussed: 1) A bifilar helix with antiphase feed that radiates a\\sin \\thetashaped, circularly polarized pattern with the null perpendicular to the helical axis; and 2) a quadrafilar helix with feed currents in quadrature that radiates a cardiod shaped, circularly polarized pattern."
"In attempting to estimate the radar cross section of airborne vehicles, it is often only necessary to consider average values of the radar returns. A method of providing a quick estimate of the average bistatic radar cross section of the vehicle components would be useful. Ray optics provides a method of predicting the radar cross section of electrically large, perfectly conducting, simply curved, convex bodies such as spheres, ogives, ellipsoids, etc. This paper extends the method of ray optics to the case of an arbitrary body, which may be concave and/or convex, on which doable reflection and depolarization can occur. The incident radiation on the scattering body is represented by a large number(10^{5}-10^{6})of rays. The rays reflected in a given direction with a given polarization are collected at infinity and combined by phasor addition. For the bodies investigated, this method yields results within\\pm2dB of measured results except in small angular regions where trapped waves contribute significantly to the radar return."
"Broad-band microwave receiving and tracking systems generally require medium to high-gain antennas that have a minimum beamwidth requirement dictated by probability of intercept and acquisition time considerations. This paper discusses a technique whereby the secondary pattern beamwidth variation is decreased or eliminated over portions of the frequency band of these antennas. The antennas consist of a parabolic reflector illuminated by a ridge-loaded horn. A brief analysis, based on empirical antenna equations, is presented along with a description of a pencil-beam antenna and a very broad-band conical-scan tracking antenna that were made possible through the use of this technique."
"The problem of calculating the reflected and transmitted fields as a function of scan angle in an infinite phased array of parallel-plate waveguides is studied on an analytical basis. Two infinite sets of simultaneous linear equations are derived for the scattered fields internal and external to the waveguides. These sets of equations are attacked by a newly developed modified residue calculus method. Application of the results to the problem of designing rectangular waveguide arrays with improved impedance performance over a wide range ofH-plane scan angles is discussed. It is indicated that the present analysis may serve as a first step toward investigating the more general problem of phased arrays scanning at an arbitrary angle."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"The admittance of a parallel-plate waveguide aperture having an infinite flange and illuminating a metal sheet is determined by two separate methods: 1) wedge diffraction theory; 2) an integral transform solution. Numerical computations obtained by either method are in excellent agreement and are verified experimentally. A Smith chart is employed to show that, for a given aperture width, the admittance locus coalesces about the half-space value as the metal sheet recedes to infinity. A strong interaction between the aperture and the metal sheet occurs for distances in the vicinity of integral multiples of one half-wavelength. The interaction becomes much more localized with respect to distance as the distance to the sheet is increased; however, the admittance is always infinite at these distances."
"The gain factor of an offset-fed paraboloidal reflector is derived. The reflector is assumed to be in the far field of the feed, and the feed patterns are of the classG_{0}(n) \\cos^{n}\\psi. Results are presented as a function of the angular aperture\\psi_{a}, the offset angle\\psi_{0}, and even values of the feed-pattern parametern. Phase-error effects due to a displacement of the feed from the focal point are calculated. Displacements of\\lambda/30, \\lambda/20, and\\lambda/10are considered. The gain factor is again derived as a function of the previously mentioned parameters and the feed displacement\\delta."
"A simple and quantitatively accurate representation of the current distribution in a dipole antenna is derived. Numerical data are given and are found to be in good agreement with the experiment whenh \\geq O.15\\lambda."
"When a CW skywave signal is received on a linearly polarized antenna, polarization (Faraday) rotation produces a variation of received signal strength with radio frequency. The resulting dependence of received signal amplitude on radio frequency may impose a bandwidth limitation on pulsed signals where waveform preservation is important. A measure of this limitation, termed polarization bandwidth, is defined to correspond to the bandwidth in which the plane of polarization rotates90\\deg. Computer ray-tracing calculations were performed using a single Chapman-layer ionospheric model to determine the 1-hop polarization bandwidth as a function of geomagnetic azimuth and radio frequency. The polarization bandwidth was found to decrease with increasing radio frequency and with increasingly close alignment of the propagation path with the longitudinal component of the earth's magnetic field. Assuming a critical frequency of 9 MHz and a path length of 2000 km, the polarization bandwidth increased from a minimum of 140 kHz at 10.5 MHz and from a minimum of 70 kHz at 17.5 MHz, as the propagation direction varied from geomagnetic north to east. A model for the 1-hop ionospheric signal channel is proposed whose parameters are the rate of change of polarization rotation with frequency and the phase versus frequency characteristic of the path. These two parameters are shown to be readily determined from FM-CW or equivalent oblique-path sounding records. Using this model, predictions are made of the effects of polarization rotation with frequency, and also of ionospheric dispersion or phase distortion, on the envelope shape of short-pulse signals (of from 1.5 to50 \\mus duration). A pronounced waveshape distortion due to the effects of polarization rotation on the pulse envelope was observed when the signal bandwidth appreciably exceeded the \"polarization bandwidth\" for the path."
"This paper considers the scattering of very high frequency (VHF) electromagnetic waves from a random weakly corrugated surface by the perturbation method. The calculations show that the scattering has a resonant nature, i.e., only certain Fourier components of the surface shape are responsible for scattering in every given direction. Experiments carried out in a water basin confirmed the results of the calculations. The backscattered intensity is proportional to the spectral density of those Fourier components of the surface oscillation that have a resonant space period. In these experiments, resonant maxima of the reflected signal corresponding to the second-order approximation of the perturbation method were also observed. The frequency spectrum of the scattered electromagnetic field is also investigated. It is shown that the spectrum of the scattered radiation is shifted from the incident frequency by a certain value related to the phase velocity of the resonantly scattering Fourier component of the surface shape. The experimentally observed dependence of the scattered intensity on frequency and the theoretically predicted one are very much alike."
"A two-scale model of rough surfaces is considered which permits theoretical interpretation of the features of very high frequency (VHF) scattering from such surfaces (say, from a sea surface). The scattering surface is assumed to be a superposition of small-scale ripple and large waves (swell). Reflection from the latter may he considered by the Kirchhoff approximation. The spatial spectrum of corrugations is taken into consideration; the calculations based on this model help to give an explanation of the behavior of the scattered intensity as a function of the angle of incidence\\psi, and to establish which factors affect this dependence at various values of\\psi- Theoretically predicted dependence of the scattered intensity upon radio wavelength\\lambda, depolarization of the scattered signal, and other features of the scattered radiation are in good agreement with the experimental data obtained from direct measurements. Frequency spectra of the backscattered signal were also investigated (experimental measurements were carried out at wavelengths 3.2 cm, 10 cm, 50 cm, 1.5 m, and 4 m). Observed shifts of the central frequency agree with results of other authors (for the range of\\lambda = 3cm to 200 m). The measured values of the spectrum width appeared approximately twice those theoretically calculated. This may be explained by the influence of dissipative processes and of fluctuations of the skin-deep layer drift velocities. Space correlation of the backscattered signal was also investigated (both theoretically and experimentally). 50 percent decorrelation occurs at distances compared with dimensions of a wave slope."
"In-flight measurements of the impedance ofC- andS-band waveguides radiating into a reentry plasma are compared with computed data. The vehicle utilized for the experiment was the Trailblazer II. The measurements were made during the reentry portion of the flight and received byX-band telemetry. The computed data are obtained from the variational formulation for aperture admittance of waveguides radiating into an inhomogeneons plasma medium. The dominant TE10mode is assumed to exist over the aperture. The form employed here utilizes the piecewise solution of Riccatti equations which permits rapid evaluation of the resulting equation for the admittance."
"The behavior of a plane wave incident from an isotropic medium onto a perfectly conducting plane covered with a moving uniaxial sheath is studied in detail. The governing equations are formulated by making use of the transformed constitutive relations of the moving sheath viewed as a stationary bianisotropic medium. The dispersion equations for the ordinary and extraordinary components of the wavenumber in the moving sheath are then obtained. Complete field expressions for both the reflected wave and the wave in the moving medium are given in terms of the longitudinal field components of the incident wave for an arbitrary orientation of the plane of incidence and an arbitrary angle of incidence. Several special cases are considered and some interesting numerical results are presented in graphical form."
"A quantitative laboratory experimental investigation has been conducted on the distortion of the main far-field radiation pattern of a horn antenna situated behind a layer of isotropic plasma. The power radiation pattern and phase for orthogonal components of the radiation transmitted through the plasma were investigated for various plasma properties. The experimental results were compared to theory based on the reciprocity theorem and good agreement was obtained. The major features are a gradual attenuation and distortion of the radiation pattern for plasma electron densities below the critical density and a rapid change in the radiation pattern with severe attenuation in the region of the critical electron density followed by \"cut-off\" at still larger electron densities. No appreciable polarization change of the energy radiated by the antenna is introduced by the plasma."
"A 300-GHz Dicke-type superheterodyne radiometer receiver was used for measurements of atmospheric attenuation of electromagnetic waves over an open path at frequencies near 300 GHz. The average measured values of horizontal attenuation at 304 GHz and 316 GHz, presumably due to atmospheric water vapor absorption, were, respectively, 3.35 dB/km and 5.55 dB/km per g/m3of water vapor density. Absorption variations at 304 GHz with respect to water vapor density were shown in the measured results. The variation of the effective zenith sky temperature with respect to atmospheric water vapor density was also determined. The minimum detectable temperature difference(\\Delta T)_{min}, was obtained by measuring the rms value of noise in the receiver output. The best value achieved was3.16\\degK. Based on this result, the receiver noise figure and the mixer conversion loss were determined indirectly. The results were 31.4 dB and 22.9 dB, respectively. A blackbody radiation source served to calibrate the radiometer."
"A helical log-periodic array is designed considering the same parameters as those used in an existing log-periodic dipole array. The impedance and radiation characteristics are measured for both arrays. It is observed that the arrays have similar characteristics. Moreover, the advantage of the helical array is that its transverse dimension becomes much smaller."
"The application of dynamic programming to the synthesis of unequally spaced symmetrical antenna arrays is further investigated. The design criterion is to obtain a combination of elements, in a quantized aperture which has the lowest value of the peak sidelobe level over a specified angular interval. A 25- element array in an aperture length of50\\lambdais synthesized, and it is shown that the designs obtained are considerably superior to those obtained by other investigators using different techniques."
"A ninety-six element scanning array, which operates over an octave bandwidth, has been built and tested. The array beam is steered with digital latching ferrite phase shifters, which have low insertion loss and essentially constant phase shift over considerably more than an octave. A reasonable match has been achieved through the use of dielectric transformers at both the input and radiating apertures. The array performs properly over nearly an octave bandwidth for scan angles up to 60°, but at the upper end of the frequency band, the thick dielectric transformers caused a surface wave-type phenomenon and a subsequent loss of the main beam. An examination of the occurrence of `lost beams' at scan angles of 60° showed that these effects could be predicted from simulator measurements performed at higher frequencies and smaller scan angles"
"A method for the approximate calculation of the radiation fields of a short-backfire antenna is presented. This technique is based upon the assumption that the aperture field is distributed approximately cosinusoidally in both horizontal and vertical planes as evidenced by near-zone field measurements. It appears that the short-backfire antenna is essentially a circular aperture antenna with cosinusoidal aperture field, and that the dipole functions merely as an exciter for this field."
"Measurements of waves of normal electric field and tangential magnetic field over the surfaces of disk antennas agree with calculations consisting of addition of Young-Huygens wavelets from elements of edge arriving at any point on the surface of the disk."
"The electromagnetic field from a group of radiators depends upon amplitude and phase distribution of the source. The distributions, which are of considerable interest in the mathematical theory of linear arrays, are the Chebyshev, uniform, triangular, and binomial. The radiation patterns of these distributions are highly directive. The Legendre distribution is considered"
"An analysis of the axial ratio variation over the main beam of the helical beam antenna shows that the polarization stability improves with increasing number of turns, with smaller pitch angle, and with decreased To mode amplitude."
"The criteria associated with the use of an impedance-sheet approximation to a plasma slab are discussed for two cases. The first case considers plane-wave propagation through a plasma slab, and the second case considers a plasma-covered slot antenna terminated in a flat ground plane. Curves showing the percent deviation in the transmission loss between the impedance-sheet model and the plasma-slab model are presented for various plasma conditions."
"The behavior of transient signal propagation in lossless, isotropic, and homogeneous plasma is considered for a Gaussian pulse-modulated carrier. An approximate expression for the electric field is obtained. Both the amplitude change and the carrier-phase distortion are given in figures for various parameter values of interest."
"A so-called \"end correction\" term has long been sought to correlate the experimental result and the theoretical solution for the input admittance of a monopole antenna driven from a coaxial line. The analytic solution of this correction term is possible only in the case of electrically thick monopole. In this communication an integral equal forf(r), which is related to the integration of the radial\\bar{E}field across the driving point, is formulated for an antenna with arbitrary radius, and subsequently solved by a matrix method. The end correction can then be expressed explicitly in terms off(r). The result agrees perfectly with the theoretical solution in the case of an electrically thick monopole."
"A laboratory model of a transhorizon propagation path has been used in an experiment designed to simulate the transmission of UHF energy beyond the radio horizon via the mechanism of tropospheric scatter. Electromagnetic energy was scattered over the radio horizon by dropping very small glass spheres through the beam of the transmitting antenna."
"A technique for measuring the electron density of dense, thick, steady-state plasmas using a swept microwave interferometer is described. An expression is developed relating the average electron density to a phase shift less than180\\degwhen the phase change introduced by the plasma is large."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"The geometrical theory of diffraction is used to investigate the gain and radiation pattern of a conical horn excited by a circular waveguide operating in the TE11mode. A simple expression for evaluating the eigenvalues in the horn is derived and a systematic procedure is given for converting the field of the dominant mode into a geometrical-optics ray form. It is shown that the dominant contribution due to these rays may be attributed, in the principal planes of diffraction, to a pair of Brillouin rays emanating from a spheroidal mode-caustic generator. The edge rays excited at the aperture plane are also taken into account and their contribution is obtained as an asymptotic series in terms of the horn dimensions. Finally, it is shown that the ray-optical technique gives a physical insight into the diffraction mechanisms of a conical horn and leads to an excellent agreement with experiment."
"A method is described by means of which exact and direct synthesis of oblique incidence ionograms can be performed for a quasi-linear ionospheric model with spherical earth-ionosphere geometry but neglecting earth's magnetic field. A sample ionogram synthesized in accordance with this method is presented."
"Very little quantitative information is available on the behavior of an antenna over a nonplanar surface. A monopole over a metal hemisphere on a ground plane is a simple configuration which has possible applications to spacecraft antennas [1] and to broadcasting antennas erected on a hill. Measurements have been made of the driving-point admittance of a monopole with electrical lengths\\betah = \\pi/2, \\pi, 2\\pias a function of the radiusbof the hemisphere. A traveling-wave monopole with\\betah=2\\piand\\betah_{T} = \\pi/2was also investigated. The current distribution on the hemisphere was measured by means of a movable probe."
"An equivalent network representation of a feedthrough lens array, which takes into account mutual coupling between the array elements, is presented. The model is employed to predict performance characteristics, which include element mismatch, peak voltage loading of the phase shifters, element currents, and transmitted power. Both analog and digital phase shifters are treated in the analysis. It is shown that, irrespective of the type of phase shifter, the mismatch from element to element at a fixed scan angle is not identical. This variation is explained in terms of the multiple reflections that take place between the two surfaces of the lens. Further, as a function of scan angle, the element mismatch for a digitally phased array lens does not vary in a smooth manner but exhibits a decided ripple."
"The field pattern of an asymmetrically driven long antenna is obtained by the Wiener-Hopf procedure. The formula is algebraic in form and involves no numerical integration. Comparison with experiment is made and the agreement is found to be satisfactory. Application of the result to field pattern synthesis is discussed and two examples are given."
"The Fokker-Planck equation associated with the fluctuation (ray) equation is derived. The resulting equation for an isotropic turbulence is in the form of a diffusion equation. It has been found that the diffusion coefficient is more naturally defined in terms of the logarithmic refractive index. In the limit of weak turbulence, the present definition reduces to the conventional one. For a general and arbitrary \"initial\" condition, certain moments of the diffusion equation have been obtained. These moments give 1) the probability of finding a ray with a given ray direction and given path length, and 2) the mean and mean-square position of the ray in a given direction and given path length."
"The electromagnetic field radiated by an arbitrary source is represented as the multipule expansion of the left-hand circularly polarized and of the right-hand circularly polarized modal fields. In particular, the multiarm log-spiral antennas have been investigated using such an approach. With approximated current distributions, the multipole coefficients and the circularly polarized field patterns for a few typical log spirals are computed and compared with the measured results. Generally, only a few dominant modes are sufficient to describe the major radiating characteristics of the log spirals; therefore, a better insight as to the polarization and the angular dependence can be gained through the modal-field point of view."
"First- and second-order correction terms are derived for the reflection and transmission scattering coefficients for a step-type transition between two uniform waveguides with surface impedance boundaries. This analysis yields rigorous expressions for the differential transmission and reflection coefficients defined for an infinitesimal step transition. These coefficients are essential in the derivation of the coupled differential equations for the wave amplitudes in a transition section of gradually varying height."
"The proper phasing of the active region of a log-periodic array can be obtained by means of a feeder without the conventional transposition of the wires. This is of practical importance for arrays of monopoles and slots where the transposition is not possible. However, the input impedance of such structures, when fed from a line with constant impedance, varies greatly with frequency. The impedance variation has been traced to reflections from a stop region between the antenna feedpoint and the active region. By introducing a step modulation of the characteristic impedance of the feedline, the reflections can be reduced and a stable impedance obtained."
"Techniques for reducing propagation-induced phase fluctuations in frequency distribution systems are discussed and compared. Examples of both microwave and optical methods are presented. Stabilization to a few parts in10^{8}over a 15-km path seems to be feasible."
"The waves in the spherical guide between the earth and ionosphere are excited by a horizontal electric dipole. The guide boundaries are characterized by surface impedances and the resulting waves are expressed as a superposition of TM and TE modes. The wavenumbers, excitation factors, height-gain functions, and height-dependent impedances are examined for both types of modes. A thin-shell approximation of the radial wave functions is shown to be adequate for phase velocity estimates; but other propagation parameters are of restricted validity in the VLF range where Airy integral approximations provide more reliable data. A horizontal electric dipole is shown to provide a nearly omnidirectional coverage of horizontal field components in the frequency range of the lower Schumann resonances. For an elevated source the horizontal fields are essentially omnidirectional also in the VLF range. Near fields are expressed as a summation of waveguide modes. The vertical field components vanish at the antipode, but the horizontal components remain of finite magnitude."
"An analysis is presented for wave propagation over a smooth cylindrical surface of constant curvature when the boundary impedance is specified. High-frequency approximations are introduced which permit a universal plot of the diffraction loss as a function of a hill-height parameter. The results are extended to allow for the presence of a knife-edge obstacle located on the crest of the rounded hill. For the conditions considered, the latter produces a substantial gain which, to some extent, overcomes the diffraction loss associated with the hill. The results have direct application to HF and VHF radio propagation over heavily vegetated and forested terrain."
"It is shown that when source currents are present in a compressible and anisotropic plasma, the longitudinal components of the electric and magnetic fields and the pressure variation satisfy a coupled inhomogeneous equation. Based on the spectral resolution of a square matrix, a general method for the solution of such an equation is presented. The solution of the coupled-wave equation is thus reduced to the evaluation of some simple integrals. Formulas for the determination of the transverse components are given. To demonstrate the simplicity of the method, fields due to a magnetic line source are worked out in detail. Some numerical results are also included."
"The long transmitting dipole antenna is studied theoretically and experimentally. The Wiener-Hopf technique is used to obtain explicit expressions for the current and charge distributions along the antenna. These quantities are also measured. The theoretical and experimental results are in good agreement."
"Upper and lower bounds on the (spatial) maximum electric field outside a radiating system have been obtained and studied. The results should be useful in the design of systems where microwave breakdown is an important consideration."
"The effect of small-amplitude surface irregularities on the backscattering properties of a metal sphere is examined using a full-wave boundary perturbation method. When the irregularities are resolved into their various spherical harmonics, it is shown that their total effect can be expressed as a weighted sum of their individual spectral amplitudes. The behavior of the weight coefficients as a function of both spectral order and frequency is described using graphs and various approximate formulas. This gives the complete description necessary for computing the effect of an arbitrary (small) surface variation for all frequencies from the Rayleigh region through the resonance region to the short wavelength region. The magnitude of the cross-polarized reflected power is included among the effects that can be computed."
"The reflection and transmission properties of an absorbing shell of arbitrary shape can be described by two algebraic boundary conditions relating the four tangential fieldsE_{+}, H_{+}, E_{-}, H_{-}at corresponding points on the outer surfaceS_{+}and inner surfaceS_{-}, respectively. The boundary conditions contain first-order curvature correction terms, but it is still necessary that the shell curvature be reasonably small compared to the attenuation per unit distance in the shell material. Especially simple conditions are obtained for shells thin compared to the attenuation length. The shell boundary conditions can also be used to determine an effective surface impedance for a conducting body coated by multiple layers of absorbing material."
"The theoretical analysis of the scattering of a beam wave by a small spherical object, which exists at the neighborhood of the beam waist on the propagation axis, is treated. In this analysis, the property of a spherical object is generalized so as to have anr-dependent dielectric constant. Through numerical calculations for the case of the conducting sphere, the difference between the scattering of a beam wave and that of a plane wave are discussed."
"A flat strip antenna is embedded in a magnetoionic medium with its longitudinal axis perpendicular to the static magnetic field. The antenna characteristics differ for antennas oriented with their surfaces parallel and perpendicular to the static magnetic field. In the former case there are no resistance peaks for frequencies near the plasma frequency and the reactance of a short antenna is capacitive for low frequencies. For frequencies near the gyrofrequency the antennas are electrically longer for the parallel orientation of their surfaces. The accuracy of the solutions is illustrated by computing the tangential electric surface fields that are excited by the approximate current distributions used in the impedance computations."
"A method is presented for the solution of second-order electromagnetic fields in a bounded plasma which is excited by two high-frequency electromagnetic waves. Due to nonlinearities inherent in any plasma, incoming waves are mixed, creating sum and difference frequencies. The signal from the difference frequency\\omega_{1}-\\omega_{2}, where\\omega_{1}and\\omega_{2}are source frequencies, can be of considerable consequence when\\omega_{1}-\\omega_{2}is sufficiently low to cause a significant reaction in a plasma as resonant conditions develop. In particular, the problem considered in this paper is the optimization of second-order fields in a uniform plasma confined to a circular waveguide including reference to diagnostic applications."
"We have applied techniques of optical astronomy to calibrate the pointing of a high-resolution pencil-beam antenna by using radiometric measurements of cosmic radio sources. The Haystack antenna, a 120-ft paraboloidal reflector on an azimuth-elevation mount, was calibrated at a frequency of 15.25 GHz. The beamwidth at this frequency is 36 millidegrees; the rms residual pointing error after calibration was 2.90 millidegrees in azimuth and 3.45 millidegrees in elevation. A total of 172 measurements of pointing error were made on eight sources, and these data were fitted by the method of least squares to determine seven instrumental parameters that take into account axis-alignment errors and gravitational effects on the antenna structure. These techniques are not restricted to antennas used as radio telescopes, and they may be useful in the pointing calibration of other antennas."
"The geometric optics and polarization properties of a spherical reflector are used to develop an integral representation of its focal region fields. These integrals are evaluated by the extended method of stationary phase for field points off the caustics, on the axial caustic, on the caustic surface, and at the paraxial focus. The contributions to the field at a field point are shown to arise respectively from three ordinary stationary points: a stationary ring and a stationary point at the vertex; an ordinary stationary point and a caustic type stationary point; and a fourth-order stationary point. The resulting formulas are used to compute the value of the focal region fields. The computed results are then compared to measured data."
"Three types of ionograms containing symmetric conjugate echo traces which appear frequently in the Alouette-2 satellite topside-sounder data are presented and explained in terms of multiple reflections between conjugate points of the field line passing through the satellite. Such symmetric traces have not been previously reported in the literature. The high intensity of these traces gives credence to the existence of magnetospheric waveguides along which signals can propagate with very little attenuation."
"This communication reports the results of an experimental investigation of a new log-periodic (LP) antenna. The antenna consists of an LP array of radial waveguides excited by a two-wire transmission line. The antenna exhibits a vertically polarized omnidirectional radiation pattern which is essentially constant over the designed bandwidth."
"In order to reduce the space occupied by a reflector array, it is desirable to arrange the array antennas as close to each other as possible; however, in this case coupling between the array antennas will reduce the reflecting properties of the reflector array. The purpose of the present communication is to demonstrate that this is true for a Van Atta reflector consisting of four half-wave dipoles arranged on a line. Theoretical results obtained by using the methods described in references are compared with experimental results. In contrast to previous experimental results which have been presented as normalized, the results described are absolute"
"This communication describes the element investigation, design, and testing of a backfire log-periodic cavity-backed slot array operating from 2.8 to 5.9 GHz in a frequency-independent fashion. The gain of the antenna is approximately 10 dB, and the VSWR is below 2.5 to 1. TheH-plane power patterns are given with nearfield plots along file array. The advantages of the antenna are a simple stripline feeding system and the fact that the structure protrudes a little because shallow cavities are used."
"A method for synthesizing the radiation pattern of a circular array with directive elements is presented. The required excitations are determined from an explicit formula which requires no reduction or inversion of matrices. It is particularly useful for designing large circular arrays with many elements."
"Formulas are derived for the conditions of resonance in phased arrays either covered by dielectric slabs or loaded with dielectric plugs. Numerical results are obtained to show the effects on these resonances due to the waveguide wall thickness, dielectric constant, and the thickness of the slab or plug."
"Umbrella antenna configurations are used to top-load electrically short monopole antennas to increase effective height for efficiency and to decrease capacitive reactance for tuning purposes. A technique for obtaining larger effective height and capacitance for a given antenna configuration, which uses multiple-wire structural members to increase the effective antenna surface area, is proposed. The results of scale-model, theoretical, and experimental investigations for a 300-foot umbrella antenna are presented. A capacitance increase of 24 percent is obtained for the case of a 1 to 18 increase in antenna rib diameter."
"A technique is presented which allows a substantial reduction in the number of points required to evaluate numerically a double integral arising in antenna problems. Accuracy is compared with conventional techniques, and error data are presented."
"An empirical investigation of metallic diaphragms deformed by uniform normal pressure to produce accurate parabolic reflectors is discussed. 30-cm diameter (f/D =0.4) reflectors produced by this technique were measured mechanically and found to have maximum deviations of only 0.5 mm or\\lambda/20at 30 GHz from a true paraboloid within a circle of 14-cm radius. Electrical measurements at 30 GHz are discussed."
"Forced surface wave resonances are shown to occur in dielectric-free 45-degree triangular-grid circular waveguide phased arrays. Similar surface wave phenomena were observed in an identical grid array of rectangular waveguides in theH-plane of scan. In the circular waveguide array, however, the resonance is observed in theE-plane and is shown to be an isolated point. This isolation is further illustrated by observing certain vector symmetries in the radiation patterns."
"A ray path geometry is derived using the Poynting vector to calculate the surface fields due to creeping waves in both theE- andH-planes of the sphere. The geodesics (great circles) are determined by assuming that at each point on the shadow boundary the initial direction of the ray is specified by the direction of real power flow calculated from the exact Poynting vector. The resulting ray geometry allows calculation of the creeping-wave surface field in both theE- andH-planes."
"Some numerical results are presented for the radar cross section of finite wedges for the case of symmetric illumination by a plane wave polarized in the direction of the wedge axis. Some preliminary results are given comparing calculations based on satisfying boundary conditions at discrete points with the exact approach."
"An approximate solution is described for the current distribution on a long, thin cylindrical antenna driven at an arbitrary point along its length. This solution is reasonably accurate, and the form is simple enough to be useful in the analysis and synthesis of antennas with lumped active or passive elements located along their length."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Presents the editorial for this issue of the newsletter."
"This newsletter consists of information that is of interest to APS society members. Includes recent events and meetings involving various APS chapters around the world, conference programs and committees, course announcements, publication information, and membership activities."
"Presents a message from the membership chairman."
"The results of a theoretical study on the radiation pattern of a vertically polarized biconical antenna with a finite source region are presented in this paper. Schelkunoff has formulated the general solution for the radiation pattern of a biconical antenna in terms of spherical harmonics or modes. His formulation is followed in this paper. The dominant mode in a biconical antenna with a zero length source region is a TEM wave and the bicones may be viewed as a transmission line feeding a mismatched load at the antenna aperture. Since the TEM wave is mismatched with free space waves, additional modes are generated inside and outside the antenna to satisfy the boundary conditions."
"The field pattern of an asymmetrically driven long antenna is obtained by the Wiener-Hopf procedure which was used by Wu [1] to calculate the field pattern of a center-fed dipole. The present analysis gives a formula which is algebraic in form and involves no numerical integration. The field pattern of a long antenna with multiple excitations or loadings can be obtained by superposition. The theory is compared with Altshuler's experiment [2] on resistor-loaded traveling-wave antennas and agreement between theory and measurement is found to be good. Application of the present result to field pattern synthesis is possible. For instance, it is known that a traveling wave of current may be produced on a center-driven dipole antenna of finite length when two suitable loads are placed symmetrically at about quarter-wavelength from its ends [2], [3]. A traveling-wave antenna tends to radiate power in an end-fire direction. On the other hand, the field pattern can be made broadside, as is shown in this paper, when the generators and the loads are re-arranged. These facts seems to suggest that a long antenna may be controlled to radiate power in any desired direction by adjusting the values and the positions of its loadings. Due to the simplicity of the formula involved, field patterns can be calculated and plotted or displayed by a computer in a short time as a function of the position of the generator. By inspection and by trial and error, desired field pattern can be obtained when appropriate individual field patterns are superimposed. It may be worthwhile to note that in this procedure the driving voltages and the locations of the generators are found so as to give certain desired pattern, the current distribution on the antenna does not have to be found first. However, the current may be found by using a simple formula derived by Shen, Wu and King [4] after the voltages and locations of the generators have been determined. The proposed method of field pattern synthesis is an alternative to the usual approach in which collinear arrays are used. One of the advantages of the present long antenna theory is that the complicated problem of mutual coupling effects between elements of an array is automatically taken into account. Furthermore, a simple and accurate formula of field pattern of a long antenna is readily available. Besides, a long antenna is a continuous structure and does not have gaps which exist between elements of a collinear array. The absence of such gaps permits coaxial feed lines to run out inside the antenna and thus simplifies the external structure of feeding networks. Two examples are shown in this paper to demonstrate the fact that long antenna can be made to radiate power in broadside direction if appropriate driving voltages are chosen. The result is compared with ideal field patterns of collinear arrays."
"Presents the cover/table of contents for the proceedings."
"Presents the back cover of this proceedings volume."
"The plasma sheath which characterizes aperture breakdwon causes severe attenuation and phase distortion of the transmitted signal in the broadside direction as reported previously. In this paper the main concern in focused on the experimental radiation pattern and how it is affected by the breakdwon sheath for a wide range of gas pressures and breakdown power levels."
"When antennas are used on vehicles in hypersonic flight through earth and other planetary atmospheres, the thermally generated plasma layer is usually close enough to the antenna near fields that the layer has a strong effect upon the antenna admittance. Earlier a program of measurements was reported showing that the reflection coefficient of a slot antenna exposed to a shock-tube-generated plasma is a function not only of the electron density and collision frequency in the free stream, but also of the thin nonuniform boundary layer plasma parameters next to the groundplane. Limited admittance measurements with the nonuniform layer of a plasma jet indicated that it is preferable to measure the complex admittance in order to discern the quite different dependence of the real and imaginary parts upon the various parameters. In the new work, the antenna used is the Teflon-plugged open-waveguide slot antenna. The leading edge of the slot ground-plane was made sharp to minimize the effects of the flow, and the electrostatic probes were used to monitor the ion density just downstream of the aperture. Prior studies showed that a boundary layer of approximately 2-mm thickness would exist over the aperture in the low-pressure shots, compared with an 0.6-mm thickness in the high-pressure shots."
"Provides a listing of current committee members."
"Provides a listing of current committee members."
"Presents the foreword to the conference proceedings."
"Presents the back cover of this proceedings volume."
"Presents the table of contents for the 1968 IEEE International Solid-State Circuits Conference (Digest of Technical Papers)."
"Lists informal discussion sessions held at the conference proceedings."
"Lists informal discussion sessions held at the conference proceedings."
"Lists informal discussion sessions held at the conference proceedings."
"Lists informal discussion sessions held at the conference proceedings."
"Lists informal discussion sessions held at the conference proceedings."
"Lists informal discussion sessions held at the conference proceedings."
"Lists informal discussion sessions held at the conference proceedings."
"Presents the formal opening of the conference proceedings."
"The pulsed operation of an IMPATT diode at extremely high repetition rates of 200 Mbit is accompanied by two problems: (1)-the diode is apt to be destroyed as the operating condition becomes very similar to that of CW operation; and (2)-the time lag between the avalanche oscillation and the input pulse becomes more distinct. The former can be solved by the use of a diode such as the GSB3 which can be operated continuously. The breakdown voltage of this diode ranges from 7 to 11 V. The spectrum width of the avalanche oscillation is observed to be approximately 300 kHz at 50.2 GHz. The spectrum of the locked avalanche oscillation is exactly the same as that of the injected mm-wave which is obtained from a klystron and has a spectrum width of 150 kHz. These results were observed with a spectrum analyzer. From the noise measurement of the avalanche oscillation obtained with this diode, it was observed that the FM noise is very much larger than the AM noise."
"Lists informal discussion sessions held at the conference proceedings."
"Lists informal discussion sessions held at the conference proceedings."
"Lists informal discussion sessions held at the conference proceedings."
"Lists informal discussion sessions held at the conference proceedings."
"Lists informal discussion sessions held at the conference proceedings."
"Lists informal discussion sessions held at the conference proceedings."
"Lists informal discussion sessions held at the conference proceedings."
"Lists informal discussion sessions held at the conference proceedings."
"Lists informal discussion sessions held at the conference proceedings."
"Presents the recipients of the Outstanding Paper Awards at the conference proceedings."
"Provides a schedule of conference events and a listing of which papers were presented in each session."
"Presents the cover from the proceedings of this conference."
"Provides an overview of the technical articles and features presented in this issue."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"The use of contextual constraints in speech recognition has been contemplated by many authors. This paper describes a system under development which will perform correction of errors made in a phonemic recognizer by comparison of the received phoneme sequence with the syntax and dictionary of \"the language being spoken. The language syntax is stored in a relatively efficient manner, being essentially in Backus-Naur Form. The error correction procedure can best be described as a sequential decoding on the tree of syntax generated by the tables, as traversed by a syntactical parser. The system is currently being implemented in a form such that it will recognize a \"spoken FORTRAN\" language. Some initial results of its application to certain error-containing inputs are described."
"A technique for decreasing (or increasing) the duration of spoken words or short phrases is of practical interest in relation to vocabulary preparation for computer speech output devices. A natural-sounding compressed output is the result of: 1) proper manipulation of the analog signal; 2) providing the user with convenient operating controls and immediate aural feedback; and 3) providing flexible selective compression characteristics. The implementation of this technique involves an audio magnetic tape loop with adjustable multiple playback heads and associated recording, playback, and control circuitry. The major design aspects of this device, its application to vocabulary preparation for a computer audio response unit, and its usefulness for the study of speech perception will be presented."
"The IBM 7772 Audio Response Unit provides standard digital computers with audio-response capability. Vocabulary words and/or sentences are stored in the random-access digital memories of the computer. The coded voice requires 2400 bits per second, and is reconverted into audio by the 7772 audio response unit, which is the synthesizer part of a pulse-excited channel vocoder. It will be shown that the same unit may contain several synthesizers, and thus may answer to several inquiries at the same time, thanks to a multiplexing of the coded voice in the central processing unit. The units are delivered with a 1000-word basic vocabulary in the American English language. To ensure a sufficient level of quality to the synthetic voice, special care must be paid to the vocabulary preparation. The paper will present solutions to problems encountered during vocabulary preparation, especially concerning speaker selection, recordings of words, digitization, quality improvement by software techniques, and message composition. This vocoder is being used with languages other than American English, and with male and female voices. Based on this experience, a comparison will be made between the various languages that have already been processed."
"It is now a well-accepted fact that the transmission response of the human ear from the pressure incident at the pinna to displacement of the basilar membrane provides a means of resolving an incident acoustic signal into its spectrum energy distribution. However, due to the inherent nature of this transmission response, the resolution of the spectrum energy distribution that is produced is very poor, and is not at all in concert with the well-known capacity of human hearing for the perception of frequency. This paper reports on a system that is currently being experimentally pursued for enhancement of the resolution of the spectral energy transfer response of the basilar membrane to incident acoustical signals. The system consists of a 40-section electrical network analog of the basilar membrane displacement. The signal energy intercepted by each section is detected and then processed by a high-order differencing network. Differencing networks up to the sixth order are being investigated. Experimental evaluation shows that a second-order differencing network significantly enhances the peak structure of the pattern generated by the basilar membrane analog, and defines with reasonable resolution the formants of the input utterances. Higher order networks appear unnecessary and even detrimental."
"A recording technique developed by Burnett permitted changes to be made in the relative proportions of intermodulation and harmonic distortion introduced by squaring the input signal. This process was achieved by sending equal parts of the signal through a squaring device, and through a 90-degree phase dividing network followed by a squaring device, and combining the squared outputs. By coupling this procedure with the time-changing features inherent in the sound recording process, we were able to set up a sequence of intellgibility tests whose scores provided solutions to sets of simultaneous equations involving the variables of frequency doubling, frequency halving, and doubling and halving transition times. It was possible to set up an overspecified series of tests, so that more than one solution could be derived from the experiments. Lowering of the characteristic frequency proved to have the most serious effect upon intellgibility. The next most serious was stretching the transition times. Doubling the frequency by second-harmonic distortion was considerably less damaging, though still significant. Reducing the transition times to half their initial values proved relatively trivial."
"Diphone segmentation consists of the stylization and simulation of the perceptually meaningful dynamic portions of the acoustic continuum of speech. A primary requirement of the stylization is that any segment must be usable in a variety of morphemic environments. Diphone segment assembly is a technique for synthesizing a potentially unlimited variety of continuous utterances under computer control. A major requirement of this method of segment assembly is that there be no perceptually distracting discontinuities between contiguous segments. The presentation consists of two parts. The first is a brief description of the terminal analog synthesizer and the system for generating, storing, and assembling the control signals for diphone segments. The second part is a discussion, by example, of the analysis, synthesis, and assembly rationale for simulating continuous utterance. Parameters used for the simulation of prosodic features are discussed, and the evaluation methods are described."
"A self-oscillating model of the human vocal cords is derived and simulated on a digital computer. The model is used as a source of excitation for a vocal-tract synthesizer, also programmed on the computer. Synthetic speech from the simulation is used to study the influence of glottal parameters upon signal features. The cord model produces glottal volume velocity functions which reflect the acoustic interaction between source and tract. Voice pitch and irregularities in excitation are generated intrinsically from specification of subglottal pressure, cord tension, and tract configuration. Pitch produced by the cord model is a monotone increasing function of subglottal pressure and tension. Mean air flow and glottal duty factor depend upon a combination of parameters, but primarily upon the properties of the contacting surfaces during cord closure."
"The extent to which a listener is able to recognize speech depends partly on his ability to assess its source. An experiment is described which gives a quantitative indication of the importance of two source clues in the perception of whispered initial |b| and |d|. If a precursive word is spoken by a child instead of an adult, a group of synthetic stimuli can be judged quite differently with reference to inferred child rather than adult loci."
"Aperiodicity in voiced segments of speech may be ascribed to different causes. The magnitude of pitch perturbation is different in different spectral ranges of the signal. To see whether pitch perturbation can be effectively simulated by partially replacing voiced excitation by random noise, in appropriate frequency-time portions, experimental tests have been made on a computer-simulated channel vocoder. The buzz-hiss decision was made separately for three different frequency portions of the signal. The cepstrum technique was used for pitch detection, and separate buzz-hiss switching decisions were made at the synthesizer for each frequency portion. The switching thresholds were controlled, and deliberately \"devoiced\" versions were compared with regular vocoded speech. The fundamental frequency was determined by the lowband cepstrum. The result shows that partial devoicing of the high-frequency ranges definitely improves speech quality. Further, a comparatively large amount of devoicing is perceptually tolerable."
"SpectraI analysis of the Japanese vowels shows that the five vowels /a/, /e/, /i/, /o/, and /u/ of a single speaker can well be separated by their first and second formant frequencies (F1and F2). Considerable amount of overlap is observed, however, when vowels of many speakers are plotted in the F1-F2plane, which can be ascribed mainly to differences in the size and shape of the vocal tract. A normalizing process, based presumably on higher formant frequencies, is expected in the identification of these vowels. It is not dear, however, whether concurrent changes of pitch and higher formants are necessary in the normalization process. This paper presents a method for evaluating the roles of these parameters and describes the results obtained. Perceptual boundaries between a pair of vowels, which share approximately the same ratio of F2to F1, are defined in the F1F2plane, using synthetic vowels generated by a terminal analog synthesizer. The importance of pitch and higher formants, is then evaluated by the extent to which their changes affect these boundaries. The results of listening tests show that, for ordinary buzz-excited vowels, neither pitch nor higher formants alone are sufficient for perceptual normalization, and the combined changes in pitch and higher formants are necessary to counteract the changes in F1and F2. For noise-excited vowels, on the other hand, the roles of higher formants are as important as the combined roles of pitch and higher formants in buzz-excited vowels."
"The classical vowel measurements of Peterson and Barney in 1952 have been reexamined on an individual basis to determine the minimum dimensionality required to classify a single talker's vowels, and the minimum number of vowels required to specify the dimensions. It was found that two formants are adequate for this purpose, and that no more than three vowels are required to scale the frequencies of two-formant space. Within that self-normalized space, all vowels have standard locations which are similar for all talkers."
"A digital formant is a resonant network based on the dynamics of a second-order linear difference equation. A serial chain of digital formants can approximate the vocal tract during vowel production. In this paper, the digital formant is defined and its properties discussed, using z-transform notation. The results of detailed frequency response computations of both digital and conventional analog formant synthesizers are then presented. These results indicate that the digital system without higher pole correction is a closer approximation than the analog system with higher pole correction. Finally, a set of measurements on the signal and noise properties of the digital system is described. Synthetic vowels generated for different signal-to-noise ratios help specify the required register lengths for the digital realization. A comparison between theory and experiment is presented."
"A procedure for synthesizing British English has been developed which incorporates certain economies at little apparent cost in intelligibility, and introduces some rules for allophones which improve quality. Tests are reported with intelligibility around 90 percent, and improvements suggested for the major sources of errors. The assumptions in the procedure for synthesizing speech by rule both summarize and suggest research on fundamental aspects cf speech, and thus constitute a model for some aspects of speech production and speech perception."
"Flexible instrumental facilities that permit the administration of psychoacoustic tests and the generation of stimuli under computer control have been developed for the purpose of determining poststimulatory threshold shifts in the context of speech-like sound stimulation. In an initial series of experiments, the system has been used to investigate certain of the auditory effects of brief sinusoidal ramps. The experiments have dealt with 1) matching the pitch of a steady tone to the 'pitch' of a short sweep tone, and 2) with the pattern of residual masking associated with such sweep-tone stimuli. The major result of the pitch-matching experiments is compatible with previous findings in the literature, i.e., subjects tend to place the comparison tone at a frequency close to the terminal value of the ramps. Patterns of residual masking were determined for three conditions of stimulation: 1500-Hz tone, 1000 to 1500 Hz, and 2000 to 1500 Hz sweep-tones (all 50 ms long). The sweep-tone patterns do not exhibit uniform masking over the frequency range of the ramps. They resemble the pattern obtained for the steady-state 1500-Hz tone. Moreover, they display maxima of masking at frequencies that approach the median frequencies of the pitch matches. In neither case does the sweep-tone pattern exhibit greater masking in the frequency region beyond the terminal value of the ramp. The latter result is examined in relation to the recent discussion in the literature of a perceptual overshoot or extrapolation mechanism."
"Native speakers of a language can detect quite small departures from \"correct\" timing in the production of a sentence, which implies that they \"understand\" the rules used by the speaker to determine the timing of his articulations. In order to find out what the temporal constraints are on the speaker, an experiment was designed to measure the just noticeable difference (JND) for phoneme duration in natural speech. The stimuli were produced by an electronic equivalent of tape cutting and splicing. The incremental and decremental JND's were measured for the duration of the closure interval of a/p/, in initial position and in intervocalic position, in a stressed and an unstressed syllable, and for the duration of, if necessary, a stressed and an unstressed vowel. JND's were also measured for stimuli in which the duration of a stop and an adjacent vowel were altered simultaneously in opposite directions. 1) The results are not compatible with Weber's law. 2) Subjects were generally more sensitive to changes in vowel duration than to changes in stop-closure duration. 3) Subjects were no more sensitive to changes in the duration of a phoneme when the change was compensated in the following phoneme than when it was not compensated."
"The major problems of underwater communication are microphone and earphone construction speech distortion caused by high pressure and/or mixed gas breathing environments, and face mask design. Microphone and earphone elements have recently been developed that are relatively unaffected by increased ambient pressure. These elements are constructed of piezoelectric ceramics encased in a unique rubber housing to prevent water leakage. Preliminary tests indicate that the frequency response of these elements is changed less than 3 dB by pressures exceeding 500 lbf/in2gauge. Extensive research in speech distortion under extreme pressures with various gas mixtures includes voice spectrum analysis, study of adaptation changes in speech, and intelligibility measurements of helium speech before and after processing or \"unscrambling.\" These basic data provide information for the design of microphones, masks, and electronic and mechanical means of normalizing distorted speech. Face mask design must include consideration of breathing requirements, as well as speaking requirements. The design of a speaking cavity has, of necessity, been based on empirical data. These designs often conflict with the primary requisite of proper breathing design. Electronic compensation is often employed to correct or improve deficiencies in mask characteristics."
"The various parameters which affect the performance of a single integration exponential delta modulator are discussed, viz., line rate, signal channel bandwidth and the time constant of the RC combination (\"integrator\") used in the feedback path of the coder (and in the forward path of the decoder). The performance of the delta modulator is described quantitatively in terms of its overload characteristic (level at which harmonic distortion occurs versus signal frequency), its coding threshold, and the level of quantizing noise. A novel form of diagram is constructed, showing these performance boundaries in a manner which enables the dynamic range of the coder as a function of signal frequency to be readily appreciated. At the same time, values of signal to quantizing noise ratio are easily ascertainable. The shape of the overload characteristic is discussed, and attention is drawn to the importance of relating this to the long-term spectrum of the input signal. A formula is derived for the effect of random errors occurring in the digital transmission path, and it is shown how this may be minimized. The delta-sigma modulator is treated in a similar way."
"Studies in experimental linguistics must take into account the difference between a speaker's competence (his ability with regard to the grammar of his language) and his performance (his ability with regard to the production and perception of particular utterances). Where these differences have been ignored, wrong assumptions have led to inadequate models. This paper discusses some of the important distinctions between the two, and suggests that experiments can be designed to test hypotheses relating to either or both. Three experiments are described. The first is concerned with how subjects would pronounce nonsense words; the results are predictable from a model of their linguistic competence. The second involves the auditory perception of temporal intervals in speech; the data show that a subject's responses are influenced by both his competence (his stored grammatical knowledge) and his performance (his immediate perception in the particular circumstances). The third experiment investigates aspects of the control of the vocal organs which are independent of the language being spoken; it is therefore entirely concerned with the speaker's performance."
"OVE III is a formant series synthesizer digitally controlled from a small computer. Like its predecessor OVE II, it comprises three parallel branches for generation of vowels, fricatives, and nasals, respectively. The principles of some key circuits are described. The modular design uses small gains at the critical points to minimize noise and stability problems. The buildup of the complete synthesis instrumentation, including spectrum-matching facilities, is described together with the program system used."
"In the process of studying voiced speech signals, it is frequently found that waveforms exhibit irregularities with respect to their expected periodicity. The purpose of this study is to investigate the underlying causes of such irregularities. The phenomenon was investigated simultaneously by means of the following methods: 1) larynx-microphone signal representation, and 2) glotto-graphic signal representation. In order to establish whether the effect depends on the particular speaker, the phenomenon was studied on a number of different voices. Dependency on other causes, such as source-signal irregularities, sudden vocal-tract variations, etc., was also studied. In connection with this study, a method of evaluating the relative merits of various pitch extractors was developed and will also be described."
"Many types of speech-communication systems may be readily evaluated with available electronic devices which employ the concept of the Articulation Index. To study the feasibility of using such devices to evaluate time-varying systems, recordings were made of the transmission characteristics of a troposphere-scatter system. At many specific points in time in these recordings, Articulation Indexes were calculated, and intelligibility scores were obtained from listeners with the aid of a special test procedure. For most points, the intelligibility score could be reasonably well predicted from the Articulation Index. This finding was interpreted as indicating that the existing devices are potentially capable of evaluating time-varying systems."
"Digital computers are being used extensively in acoustics research. An integral, but often unemphasized part of this research is effective and efficient man-computer communication, particularly in terms of computer-generated graphs and visual displays. This paper explores the many facets and philosophies of computer graphics as an irreplaceable link in man-computer communication. Numerous examples from the diverse areas of acoustics research are described to emphasize the wide range and varied aspects of computer graphics."
"Classes of systems which satisfy a generalized principle of superposition have been previously proposed and termed \"homomorphic systems,\" emphasizing their interpretation as homomorphic (i.e., algebraically linear) transformations. One such class appears suited to the separation of signals that have been convolved. In this paper, an approach to deconvolution of speech, based on these ideas, is discussed."
"The problem of acoustic transmission of speech sounds to the deaf is reviewed. Then some methods of speech analysis are described which have been developed as prototypes of new speech aids. Three types of new aids are covered: 1) aids intended for improving speech reception by recoding or transposing speech sounds into residual hearing ranges, 2) tactual aids to speech communication, and 3) visual aids to supplement speech reception, or for monitoring of speech in speech training."
"One of the problems of connected speech recognition concerns the transcription of a sequence of phonemes (or any other lower level linguistic units) into a sequence of words of a sentence. Although this problem appears to be unsolvable in its full generality, several subproblems can be solved by imposing certain specific constraints. The paper describes possible solutions to some of these subproblems and presents some results obtained using a PDP-6 computer. Using a phoneme-to-word dictionary and the structure of the English language, a computer program transforms the phoneme string of a simple English sentence into a word string. The program uses a tree-structure mechanism to keep track of the possibilities at various stages. Since the dictionary has to be finite, the program asks for human assistance when it is unable to find a suitable match. If the input phoneme string is likely to have errors, the matching routine can be required to check for possible confusions among phonemes."
"As a part of the larger problem of providing speech input to a computer in a communications system, before either digital buffering, vocoding, or programmed recognition of the speech signals is performed, automatic conditioning of the input signal can significantly improve system performance. The signal conditioning sub-system described in this paper is intended to provide a constant-amplitude signal of the best quality possible from an uncontrolled speech source such as a telephone line, and to indicate the beginning and continued presence of a speech utterance. A fast-acting wide-range automatic level control is used both to compensate for the average strength of the received signal and to remove the word and phrase amplitude dynamics so that the amplitude-controlled signal is contained in a minimum dynamic range. The presence of an utterance is detected by comparison of the logarithm of signal amplitude to an automatic variable threshold set by the logarithm of the input noise as measured during the absence of signal, thus achieving a constant SNR threshold. The functions described for conditioning can be implemented with analog circuits without the aid of signal delay."
"Voice communication with computers provides many advantages, particularly for communicating with multifunctional spaceborne computers. Advantages include proper utilization of the astronaut's (or any computer user's) training and experience with speech, advantages of natural-language man-computer communication, physical mobility permitted to the busy astronaut, reasonable communication capacities of the voice channel, advantages of multimodal communication, including increased reliability of I/O systems, possibility of monitoring astronaut emotional state, the small closed spaceborne environment with no outside noise and limited population of speakers, and the potential for voice I/O under various accelerations. In contrast, difficulties of oral communication with computers include interference of auditory noise, lack of any direct permanent record of what has been spoken, difficulties of computer handling of versatile natural languages, and increased demand for computer storage and processing capabilities. A system for experimentally comparing speech parameter extraction techniques has been implemented and should provide valuable results concerning the potential for successful speech recognition by computer. The final test of the value of the oral man-computer communication link will be whether human users accept and use it with some ease. Behavioral investigation of the operational acceptability of voice I/O under various restrictions on the communication and command languages used will provide precise measures of the potential success of restricted voice I/O systems."
"An experimental system for synthesis by rule has been developed, consisting of a parallel-resonance synthesizer, a laboratory computer, and two computer programs. To drive the synthesizer, values for each of its parameters must be specified at appropriate intervals. The \"Rules\" program (an elaboration of earlier work done with Holmes and Shearme at the Joint Speech Research Unit) accepts an input string representing an utterance phonemically, and an auxiliary input consisting of rules in tabular form for synthesis of the segmental and prosodic phonemes of a particular dialect. From these inputs, the sets of parameter values for the utterance are calculated. The \"Executive\" program reads the parameter value sets into memory and transmits them to the synthesizer. This program also enables the variation of the transmission rate editing of the stored values, disk storage and retrieval of the parameter value sets for a large number of utterances and synthesis of a sequence of utterances."
"The study of speech communication and speech processing systems by simulation on a digital computer, and the design and physical implementation of these systems with discrete components, require a detailed knowledge of the elements known as digital filters. Following a definition of the digital filter, the different areas in which digital filters have been used in speech research and communication are explored. The basic theory relating to the design and application of digital filters is reviewed. Attention is given not only to the use of a general purpose computer to mechanize the simulation but also to the design of special purpose hardware to realize the digital filter as either an actual communication system component or as a laboratory research element. Following a discussion of several of the numerical problems that can arise in the design and utilization of digital filters, the paper concludes with a cursory look at some of the advantages and disadvantages of the use of digital filters in speech processing systems."
"Eight state-of-the-art pitch-excited digital vocoders (2400 bits/s) were evaluated with the Diagnostic Rhyme Test, a two-choice test of the discriminability of six elementary attributes of consonant phonemes. All of the systems tested performed adequately with respect to the attributes, voicing, nasality, sibilation, and compactness. None, however, permitted adequate discrimination of the attributes, sustention (friction versus plosion) and graveness. All systems reduced the gross discriminability of these attributes and significantly biased listeners perception of the states of one or both. It is hypothesized that these deficiencies stem primarily from inadequate spectrum sampling rate (i.e., frame rate) rather than inadequate \"spectrum resolution.\""
"The purpose of this paper is to call attention to some of the properties of optical signal detection which may be useful for overcoming processing logistics problems in speech recognizers of useful vocabulary. Analog cross correlation by optical means, as described by Vander Lugt [5] permits simultaneous comparison of the speaker's utterance with a stored vocabulary tailored to the particular speaker. Storage might take the form of a microfilm aperture card. A speech recognizer model is presented for illustration purposes; parameters and experimental evidence are included to support the contention that pattern recognition can be reduced to a signal detection problem."
"The purpose of this study was 1) to measure the intelligibility of speech signals processed with a frequency converter designed to effect a spectral compression by a sampling-synthesizing technique, and 2) to investigate the effect of a short training period on the perception of the speech signals so processed. The input signals were composed of 71 CVC words recorded by an American female speaker. The highest center frequency for the input of the 22 channels was 9500 Hz. The four compression ratios of the output to the fixed input frequency spectrum were 1.0, 0.7 0.5, and 0.4 for all 22 channels used. Eighty listeners were randomly selected and assigned to one of the four conditions of spectral compression. The intelligibility score of each condition of spectral compression was obtained from a multiple choice test of six possible choices for each stimulus. The average intelligibility score for all English phonemes was obtained for each condition of compression. The intelligibility of each vowel and consonant was also calculated for all conditions. Only 15 minutes of programmed training in listening to this processed speech was found to be significantly effective for improving perception in all four conditions."
"The important concept of a linear system has been generalized to include situations in which signals are combined by processes other than addition. In this paper, particular attention is paid to cases for which the combining process is multiplications and the design of a signal filtering device which is linear for multiplied signals is presented. The use of this device as an automatic gain control and as a precision volume compressor-expander is discussed."
"A method of speech analysis that has been shown to be capable of recognizing with high accuracy a set of seven voiced vowels spoken by twelve male talkers with various regional accents is described. The waveforms used in the recognition scheme are tapped from four points along a low Q dispersive delay line, which represents a model of the human cochlea. These four output signals are sampled for 4 ms at a rate of 25 000 points per second per output channel. sampling time is synchronized withthe onset of a glottal pulse. The 4-ms samples are autocorrelated on a digital computer, then crosscorrelated (at zero delay only) with a set of stored prototype patterns to produce an array of cross-correlation coefficients. These coefficients are treated as components of a multidimensional vector that characterizes the input sound. The final decision as to which sound was spoken is made by a simple linear adaptive network that was trained to seperate these multidimensional vectors into their proper classes. The network repeatedly alters a set of decision surfaces until correct classification has been obtained or until a specified number of trials has been exceeded. Successful training was attained in all cases indicating a linear separabilitly of the vowel sounds in the space described by the correlation operations, and the short sampling time used points up the desirability of short time-signal analysis techniques in speech recognition work."
"Imperfect periodicity in speech sound is the rule rather than the exception. Experiments are described that were set up to determine in what order of magnitude perturbations of perfect periodicity are relevant to the human ear. In the first place, it was found that stochastic imperfections (jitter) render pitch imperceptible when they become stronger than some ten percent of the pitch period. On the other hand, jitter ceases to be heard as such when it gets weaker than a few tenths of a percent. This threshold rises steeply, when the sounds are shorter than about one tenth of a second. It is also higher in sounds with a nonstationary pitch. We found that jitter is heard in such sounds when it exceeds the smallest systematic increments of the pitch period."
"Classical communication theory considers preprocessing of speech for more efficient transmission through a noisy channel. However, when a high ambient noise environment is present prior to modulation, conventional techniques break down. This paper discusses speech processing in a high ambient noise environment and how the intelligibility can be improved by using a discrete, adaptive filter whose parameters vary with the form of the speech signal. The intelligibility gain of processed speech over unprocessed speech ranges from 50 percent at very high noise levels to negligible gain at moderate noise levels."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Experiments are described in which word recognition is based on digital autocorrelation analysis followed by computer pattern matching. Incoming speech is split into two frequency bands, and the signals in each band are quantized into two amplitude levels. The two signals are fed to separate autocorrelators, consisting of binary shift registers, digital multipliers, and RC integrators. The low- and high-frequency correlators have, respectively, 10 and 8 outputs which are coded into a 36-bit character, sampled 40 times per second, and fed to a digital computer for recognition. In the computer, master patterns in the form of a 36 ×30 matrix, are generated for each word of the vocabulary from a number of known utterances of the word. Unknown utterances are then compared with each master pattern in turn, and the best match determined by a simple scoring technique; if desired, master patterns can be \"updated\" when correct recognition occurs. Master patterns can be formed from either one or several speakers; when formed from a single speaker, and with a vocabulary of 10 words, subsequent utterances by the same speaker are recognized with an average accuracy of 90 percent."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"Linear and nonlinear methods of pattern classification which have been found useful in laboratory investigations of various recognition tasks are reviewed. The discussion includes correlation methods, maximum likelihood formulations with independence or normality assumptions, the minimax Anderson-Bahadur formula, trainable systems, discriminant analysis, optimal quadratic boundaries, tree and chain expansions of binary probability density functions, and sequential decision schemes. The area of applicability, basic assumptions, manner of derivation, and relative computational complexity of each algorithm are described. Each method is illustrated by means of the same two-class two-dimensional numerical example. The \"training set\" in this example comprises four samples from either class; the \"test set\" is the set of all points in the normal distributions characterized by the sample means and sample covariance matrices of the training set. Procedural difficulties stemming from an insufficient number of samples, various violations of the underlying statistical models, linear nonseparability, noninvertible covariance matrices, multimodal distributions, and other experimental facts of life are touched on."
"Zero-crossing patterns and spectral analysis using a filter bank are both a possible means in speech recognition for extracting information in the frequency domain that is useful in separating speech sounds. Results obtained from 60 speakers are given that show that the processing of segments of the 11 English vowels using a 13-channel filter bank give vowel separation comparable to that achieved with a 3-channel filter set followed by zero-crossing circuits. With prefiltering into 3 channels, zero-crossing patterns contain misleading and redundant information and it is shown that, by extracting only one zero-crossing distance during each pitch period, improved separation of low first formant vowels can be achieved with an economy in processed information. In vowels with closely spaced formants, both of which lie within the same analog filter band, the zero-crossing measure can give a mean of the two formant positions. The extent of spectral energy spread may be an important clue as well as its mean value, and a method is proposed for measuring it. In total, a much better understanding has been achieved of how filter-bank and zero-crossing analysis relate to each other and how best to extract zero-crossing information."
"This paper describes some pilot experiments in a project to recognize selected words spoken by any talker. For this initial work, a population of 10 talkers is used and the 32 test words are spoken in isolation. In the experiments, a word is represented by a set of regularly spaced time samples of the normalized spectrum envelope, and recognition is achieved by comparison of such a set of samples with a library of stored sets. Limitations on computer storage necessitate a compact method of coding a spectrum sample. Two methods have been compared, one of which classifies spectra into a very small number of types, while the other uses a 24-bit representation. The most serious problem encountered in spectrum matching is the well-known lack of synchronism between corresponding spectral events when phonemically identical words are spoken by different talkers. This paper describes an attack on this problem, which relies on using a number of sets of spectrum samples to represent each word in the stored library of words to be recognized. There are a number of ways of using the scores obtained from matching an unknown word with a library of known words. Some of these are described and some results are given both for the case where the unknown word is known to be in the stored library, and for the case where there is no such limitation."
"Three new methods will be described for the extraction of the fundamental pitch from a speech signal. These are: 1) spectrum flattening followed by a minimum phase correction to synchronize harmonics 2) spectrum flattening followed by auto-correlation, and 3) nonlinear distortion followed by autocorrelation. The last two methods will be shown to be exceptionally rugged, in that they can tolerate a considerable amount of high-pass filtering and additive noise with little degradation in performance."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"An approach to some nonlinear filtering problems through a generalized notion of superposition has proven useful In this paper this approach is investigated for the nonlinear filtering of signals which can be expressed as products or as convolutions of components. The applications of this approach in audio dynamic range compression and expansion, image enhancement with applications to bandwidth reduction, echo removal, and speech waveform processing are presented."
"Digital filtering is the process of spectrum shaping of signal waveforms, using digital components as the basic dements for implementation. This process is extensively used in the computer simulation of analog filters. The unmistakable trends toward increased speed and decreased cost and size of digital components make digital filtering especially attractive at this time. These trends promise to end the virtual monopoly of analog components for realizing real-time filters. This paper attempts to set the stage for the companion papers on digital filtering to follow in this topical issue. After introducing the z-transform of a discrete-time series, the use of this transform in linear system analysis is considered. The relationship between discrete and continuous signals and systems is then discussed. Since all the papers of this issue are concerned with digital filter implementations in one form or another, only an overview of these implementations is given here. These include filter configurations, design methods, quantization effects, and the fast convolution method for implementing nonrecursive filters."
"Provides an overview of the technical articles and features presented in this issue."
"The first part of this paper is a description of the design of low-pass, bandpass, high-pass, and notched filter difference equations using Z-transform techniques. The difference equation coefficient word lengths are significantly reduced by using a set of second-order difference equations. These equations have a form that minimizes computation. The second part of the paper contains applications of these filters to the processing of electrocardiograms (ECG). The filters are included as subroutines in a program that also includes an adaptive muscle-tremor filter, an \"optimum\" ECG estimator, and optimum estimators for the arrival time of various parts of the ECG waveform. Clinical results are presented."
"This paper presents a unique digital realization of an automatic frequency control (AFC) for tracking signals that are slowly drifting in frequency. The frequency discriminator consists of two stagger-tuned digital filters, whose squared outputs are differenced and averaged. The frequency tracking is performed by changing the centers of the digital filters and hence the discriminator characteristic. This can be done easily by only a few cosine calculations. The digital loop filter, operating at a much slower sampling rate than the discriminator filters, is designed to minimize probability of loss of lock. Zero mean white additive Gaussian noise is inserted in the linearized loop to account for both the additive channel noise and the short-term signal instabilities. The variance of the frequency estimate is then calculated. The only assumption made on the frequency drift process is that the drift rate be less than a given value. A worst-case analysis is performed to obtain the largest possible mean frequency error. Loss of lock is said to occur when the actual frequency error is greater than the width of the linear portion of the discriminator characteristic."
"The purpose of this paper is to parallel for digital filters the type of synthesis that might be found in a first course in circuit or control theory. The method described emphasizes the digital formulation as a separate entity rather than a carry-over from one domain to the other by means of conformal mappings. Implementation problems are considered, particularly that of the volume of computation required for operation of the filters."
"The design of digital filter transfer functions is facilitated by taking advantage of well-established design techniques developed for continuous (analog) filters. Digital approximations to continuous filter functions may be found by applying an appropriate sampled-data (z) transformation to the continuous filter transfer function. Three mathematical transformations are described that find the most application: 1) the standard z-transform, 2) the bilinear z-transform, and 3) the matched z-transform. The applicability of the three transformations is discussed and examples are presented of digital filters designed using these transformations."
"A special-purpose computer is organized to implement a programmable digital filter intended for use in sampled-data control systems. A canonical representation for the digital filter is selected and this form is implemented in functional blocks that are suitable for circuit integration. An analytical technique is discussed that helps determine acceptable quantization resolutions and round-off errors in the digital filter. Experimentation with the digital filter is performed in the pendulous integrating gyroscopic accelerometer control loop and in an analog computer simulation of the Saturn V thrust vector control system; the filter used as a digital compensator successfully stabilizes both sampled-data control systems. The performance of the digital filter is examined and organizational techniques to improve its characteristics are proposed."
"The digital filter with complex coefficients finds applications in the digital processing of analytic signals and complex envelopes. A theory is developed for designing such filters based on low-pass analog prototypes and digital design techniques for real filters. An example of a filter designed according to this theory is presented. The relative advantages of real and analytic signal processing are discussed. It is shown that the filtering required by either processing technique requires essentially the same amount of signal operations, which is reasonable in view of the fact that the same amount of information is processed in both classes of filter."
"A simple and effective method for designing a nonrecursive digital filter is described. This method is constructed so that it is convenient to implement the resulting filter by using the fast convolution application of the fast Fourier transform. For one representative example of a fast convolution implementation of a nonrecursive digital filter designed by the method in this paper, only as many multiplications (per output sample) were required by this implementation as were required by an implementation of a well-designed recursive digital filter achieving an equally effective frequency response. This method for designing nonrecursive digital filters permits the desired frequency response to be specified either numerically (at equally spaced frequencies), graphically, or analytically. Specifications are to be provided also for the permissible 1) resolution and 2) ripple. The ease with which this design method can achieve a specification on frequency response suggests the use of this method whenever the resulting nonrecursive filter can be conveniently implemented on a general-purpose digital computer. Adaptation of these methods to computing power spectra is described."
"This is a report of Session 7F, \"Digital Filtering - The Promise of LSI Applied to Signal Processing,\" which was presented at the 1968 IEEE International Convention, New York, NY, USA on 21 March 1968. The session was organized and chaired by R.A. Kaenel. An audience of over 500 people came to hear a panel of 10 experts introduce the foundation, discuss the present status, and contemplate the future of digital filtering at the 1968 IEEE International Convention."
"A novel technique for hardware implementation of low-frequency poles in sampled-data systems employs a zero-order hold function. The hold makes possible the desired coefficient accuracy with a smaller word size than theoretically possible for a given sampling rate."
"An approach to the implementation of digital filters is presented that employs a small set of relatively simple digital circuits in a highly regular and modular configuration, well suited to LSI construction. Using parallel processing and serial, two's-complement arithmetic, the required arithmetic circuits (adders and multipliers) are quite simple, as are the remaining circuits, which consist of shift registers for delay and small read-only memories for coefficient storage. The arithmetic circuits are readily multiplexed to process multiple data inputs or to effect multiple, but different, filters (or both), thus providing for efficient hardware utilization. Up to 100 filter sections can be multiplexed in audio-frequency applications using presently available digital circuits in the medium-speed range. The filters are also easily modified to realize a wide range of filter forms, transfer functions, multiplexing schemes, and round-off noise levels by changing only the contents of the read-only memory and/or the timing signals and the length of the shift-register delays. A simple analog-to-digital converter, which uses delta modulation as an intermediate encoding process is also presented for andio-frequency applications."
"This paper discusses digital filters for moving-target indicator (MTI) radars. The digital MTI filter, implemented with video storage and cancellation, avoids the shortcomings of traditional analog filter systems and offers several important advantages, including freedom in the choice of the interpulse period. Several digital filter systems are described in detail."
"High-speed digital data transmission systems often require special filter functions for spectral shaping with prescribed phase characteristics. One such filter is the cosine roll-off filter, which has applications in both serial and parallel data transmission systems. This filter is of special interest, because in such applications it is common to utilize two identical cosine roll-off filters in a cascade connection, i.e., one in the transmitter and one in the receiver. The composite response of the cascade connection has the raised-cosine roll-off characteristic, which yields low intersymbol interference. Because a linear phase characteristic is further required, the digital filter type chosen for this application is nonrecursive. The difference equation coefficients are determined from the coefficients of a Fourier series expansion of the magnitude-frequency characteristic in the form of a cosine series. The linear phase characteristic is the direct result of setting the sine terms of the Fourier series to zero. Two criteria have been selected as a measure of the digital filter performance: minimum stop-band attenuation and an RMS measure of intersymbol interference. Performance was calculated as a function of the number of terms in the cosine series used to approximate the desired function. Performance graphs, which summarize the results of this investigation, are included. The application of digital filtering techniques in the field of data transmission systems is shown to have practical value."
"Presents abstracts of current literature on audio and electroacoustics."
"A study has been made on the evaluation of natural impulsive noises by subjective and objective procedures. One special example was used to get an indication of whether existing objective calculation methods might give sufficient agreement with subjective tests. The office noise sample studied bursts from a single typewriter operated at repetition rates between 1.5 and 15 strokes per second. A forced-pair comparison procedure of the constant stimulus type was used for the subjective evaluation. This choice has been prompted by the good results which we obtained with a corresponding method for speech quality measurements. In the subjective tests reported here, we asked for loudness and for annoyance comparisons. Two types of broad-band noise were utilized as reference signals. In addition to this, narrow-band noise centered at 1000 Hz was used to calibrate the two broad-band noises subjectively, and was also compared directly to the test noise. The subjective measurement results of this study are compared with those obtained by several well-known objective methods for noise rating and loudness evaluations."
"The distribution of the long-wavelength magnetic flux in unshielded and shielded magnetic head cores is described and calculated. Two effects are found, depending on the path of the flux: the \"secondary gap effect\" and the \"undulation effect.\" The secondary gap effect causes an increasing output level at long wavelengths; it occurs because of the finite permeability of the core. The undulation effect causes undulation in the reproducing-head wavelength response; it depends primarily on the dimensions of the core in the neighborhood of the tape. Experimental measurements confirm the validity of the calculations quite well."
"Computational procedures which have been developed in the past few years have taken the familiar frequency-domain techniques from the realm of theory and placed them in the realm of practice. In order to realize fully the potential of th techniques, it is necessary to gain insight into the physical significance of the discrete Fourier transform. Here, the discrete Fourier transform is viewed as a set of discrete linear filters--one filter for each Fourier coefficient. Each filter is seen to have zero poles and (N-1) zeros. (N is the number of data points transformed.) The characteristics of these filters are discussed. Spectrum weighting, for the purpose of sidelobe reduction, is also shown to be equivalent to discrete linear filtering. The filters in this case are similar to those which represent the discrete Fourier transform."
"Recent interest in environmental art has generated a need for sophisticated but inexpensive sound synthesis and lighting control systems which can be manipulated by artists unfamiliar with electronics. A system philosophy that meets these requirements is described. Maximum flexibility through voltage control of audio variables by separate functional modules and input-output voltage compatibility among all the modules forms the basis of the system. Extensive use of integrated circuit technology offers low cost and high reliability. Specific examples of modules, including a complete description of one module (a voltage-controlled oscillator), are used to elucidate the system design philosophy. The 42 modules of 10 different types that were constructed demonstrate both the feasibility of the input-output compatibility approach and the advantages of integrated circuit technology."
"Spectral considerations on the conventional method for measuring the transient distortion in loudspeakers (repeated tone burst method) show that the result of the measurement is proportional to a weighted sum of the values of the complex transfer characteristic of the loudspeaker at the discrete frequencies f0and (2m-1) f0/2n where f0is the frequency of the pure tone from which the tone burst is formed, n is the number of full periods in each burst, and m = 1, 2, 3, . . ."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Feedback-controlled variable-gain limiting and compression systems are used to limit the maximum signal or dynamic range of a signal. By using a logarithmic weighting scale in analyzing such a device, we found that the attack time and overshoot of the gain reduction are directly dependent on the delay of the gain-control feedback loop. With the optimum loop gain, the attack time is approximately four times the loop delay. For a given rate of rise for the input signal in dB/s, the overload at the output is proportional to the reciprocal of the delay time. If the loop gain is set too high, the gain reduction overshoots the proper value and produces a \"hole\" in the program."
"A simple speech measurement is described that allows the identification of voiced and unvoiced sounds. In addition the measurement can be used to distinguish between a limited number of different vowel sounds. The measurement consists of examining the difference in magnitude between the positive and negative peaks of the speech waveform. This asymmetry measurement can become completely volume insensitive if preceded by a frequency-dependent phase shifter. Optimization of the measurement for individual speakers is quite easily accomplished."
"A pattern recognition algorithm has been used to compare the usefulness of two types of spectrum analyzers for speech recognition."
"This correspondence explains the reason for obtaining negative estimates for power density spectra in numerical calculations. The major source of error is not what is ordinarily believed a precision problem [1] in the computer program. The main error lies in using the usual Fourier cosine transform definition which is no longer valid for numerical work. A more appropriate definition is suggested."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"Provides an overview of the technical articles and features presented in this issue."
"An important problem in the theory and practice of receiving angle-modulated signals is the design of the filtering elements which must be employed. It has long been known that filtering introduces distortion and crosstalk into the signal. However, the computation of these effects is difficult. The methods customarily used employ approximations of one kind or another, and the equations used do not apply to all cases of practical interest. Here formulas are presented which enlarge somewhat the domain of cases amenable to calculation. In this analysis, an angle-modulated signal having an arbitrary phase function is applied to a general linear filter, and the phase of the output is expanded in a series having the linearly filtered input as the leading term. The expansion is then specialized to the case of a narrowband signal applied to a narrow, symmetrical, bandpass filter. A spectral analysis is performed by assuming a Gaussian input phase and examining terms through fifth order in the output phase expansion. This leads to the main results of the paper, namely expressions for the leading terms in the output spectrum. It is argued that these terms represent the principal contribution in the case where the distortion is small. To demonstrate their application to a practical problem, the formulas are used to calculate the distortion and crosstalk produced when an FM signal, having a flat baseband spectrum, is passed through a single-pole filter. This example is of some current interest because such a filter has been employed in the forward path of a feedback FM receiver used for satellite communication. A number of cases are considered, and the results of the computations are plotted."
"This paper develops two theorems concerning the small-signal behavior of nonlinear time-varying networks whose state equations are of the form x·= f(x, u, t). The conclusions of the theorems are supported by experiments. The input is of the form U(t) + u(t), where the bias U(t) is allowed to be time-varying (typically, slowly varying) and u(t) is the small signal. The bias induces a moving operation point X(t). Given some simple assumptions concerning the linearized small-signal equivalent circuit it is shown that provided u(t) is sufficiently small on [0, ∞), the state trajectory about the operating point is bounded on [0, ∞) and tends to zero as u → 0. The method of proof also shows that this result applies to some distributed circuits. The second theorem shows that the push-pull connection reduces the distortion due to the nonlinearities of both resistors and energy storing elements. The third part of the paper describes numerical experiments that support the conclusions of the theory and a design procedure for nonlinear networks to be operated in the small-signal mode."
"A theory of spin wave resonance in ferromagnetic thin films is discussed in a manner that permits a computation of the real and imaginary parts of the circularly polarized RF fields as well as the power absorption spectrum. The case of the dc field intensity applied normal to the surface of the film is considered, and the saturation magnetization is taken as constant throughout the body of the film. Variations in dc fields near the surfaces are treated in the boundary conditions for the RF magnetization by considering the unsymmetrical nature of the exchange interaction at the surfaces. The boundary conditions are characterized by a constant for each surface that controls the degree of surface pinning in the RF magnetization. Damping is included in the formulation by means of a phenomenological constant in the spin wave equation and by simulaneous solution of this equation with Maxwell's equations for a conductor. The results of a computer program are presented showing the roles of the various parameters in determining the power absorption spectrum and RF fields. A comparison with experimental spectra is made, and an anomalous resonance at field intensities higher than that for the principal resonance is predicted."
"Solar cells made from 1.5- and 10-Ωċcm p-type silicon, with silver-titanium evaporated electrodes, were irradiated by 4.6-MeV protons at room temperature to fluences ranging from 1 × 1010to 1 × 1012protons/cm2. The photovoltaic current-voltage characteristics, the photovoltaic spectral response, and the minority carrier diffusion length were studied as the solar cells were annealed isochronally to temperatures up to 600°C. The proton radiation damage annealed in two stages, the first occurring between 50° and 150°C, and the second between 350° and 450°C. The removal of proton damage in this manner differs markedly from the annealing reported for 1-MeV electron damage, where practically no recovery of the photovoltaic properties is observed below 350°C. At any selected annealing temperature, the 10-Ω ċ cm cells were observed to recover to a slightly greater degree than the 1.5-Ω ċ cm type."
"Heterodyne experiments have been performed in the middle infrared region of the electromagnetic spectrum using the CO2laser as a radiation source. Theoretically optimum operation has been achieved at kHz heterodyne frequencies using photoconductive Ge:Cu detectors operated at 4°K, and at kHz and MHz frequencies using Pb1-xSnxSe photovoltaic detectors at 77°K. In accordance with the theory, the minimum detectable power observed is a factor of 2/η greater than the theoretically perfect quantum counter, hvΔf. The coefficient 2/η varies from 5 to 25 for the detectors investigated in this study. A comparison is made between photoconductive and photodiode detectors for heterodyne use in the infrared, and it is concluded that both are useful. Heterodyne detection at 10.6 µm is expected to be useful for communications applications, infrared radar, and heterodyne spectroscopy. It has particular significance because of the high radiation power available from the CO2laser, and because of the 8 to 14 µm atmospheric window."
"The advent of fast rise-time pulse techniques and their increasing importance brought on by high-speed microminiature circuits and the computer industry has resulted in an increased demand for pulse transformers of various types. The basic idea of constructing transmission line type transformers has been known and used for a number of years. However, such devices have not gained widespread usage, partly because their existence is not well known, but largely because of a lack of basic understanding of their operating principles in terms of elementary fundamentals as well as their capabilities and limitations. The purpose of this paper is twofold. One aim is to develop in step-by-step fashion the basic ideas of transmission line transformers from ordinary transmission line theory. The subject will be approached from the point of view of pulse response rather than ac excitation as is usually the case. Both impedance transformers and balanced-to-unbalanced (balun) transformers, including inverters, will be considered with physical insights into their operation. Several fundamental concepts will be developed and explored in detail (without mathematics), since they have a strong bearing on practical applications. The second purpose is to present new information and pulse measurements which will be useful in the design and applications of such devices, showing their capabilities and hitherto unexplored limitations, as derived from the fundamental concepts. Thus, this paper is partly supplementary to other published work and partly new work with the goal of providing a convenient fundamental understanding of these devices and their inherent potential and shortcomings. Although the intention is not to give a detailed design procedure, some approximate calculations and discussion of significant design criteria are included."
"Design procedures are developed for the Taylor approximation of prescribed network characteristics in the neighborhood of an arbitrary frequency. The desired characteristic may represent either the phase, or the loss, or both."
"A uniform distributed amplifier with passive and active, but no inductive, coupling can be represented in most practical cases with an exact distributed equivalent circuit consisting of simple fast and slow mode transmission lines having equal terminators. With ohmic terminators, reflected backward waves always exist (f ≠ ∞)."
"Previously, formation of blocking contacts to evaporated CdS with high work function metals has depended on the order of deposition. A method is described whereby blocking contact, rather than the usual ohmic contact, results for CdS deposited on metal. Comparison is favorable with the best diodes obtained by first depositing CdS."
"Theoretical reduction in intensity fluctuations of a focused laser beam propagating through a randomly inhomogeneous medium was qualitatively examined in an experiment in which intensity fluctuations were observed near the focus of the optical system used. A wind tunnel was used to produce the randomly inhomogeneous medium."
"This letter shows that the criteria for a two-port to be a nonideal NIC in terms of its h parameters should be applied to both orientations of the two-port. Alternatively, a different set of conditions should be used if the two-port is to remain in the same orientation."
"The immittance transformation chart of a two-port which is used together with the Smith chart to obtain graphically the immittance transformed through a two-port is presented."
"An auxiliary matrix found in the literature provides a convenient way of evaluating an equidiagonal symmetric matrix such as that encountered in the tree count for a complete simple graph. The generalized form of this matrix is analyzed and several suggested uses are presented."
"Values are reported for the odd-order intermodulation products originating from a p-i-n diode in a UHF SPST switch which is tied to a transmission line carrying two signals. Included are their dependence on power levels, bias, and ambient temperature."
"FM noise of the LSA oscillator diode has been investigated in the case where there are density fluctuations between two sub-bands. If the differential mobility is a positive constant below a threshold field and a negative one above it, the power spectrum of the noise may be proportional to that of the density fluctuations."
"A novel triode configuration suitable for high-density electron guns is described in which several insulated posts project through holes in the cathode surface. Results of a pilot high-power, pulsed-voltage experiment are given."
"A time-varying smoothing network with an increasing time constant provides good smoothing and fast initial response. A mathematical model evaluated by digital computer showed that a stepwise time constant increase gives fairly good results even with only two steps. For low-output detectors (e.g., Hall correlators) a continuously varying time constant may be realized by using an FET."
"The Hall term in the generalized Ohm's law is sometimes neglected in analysis of hydromagnetic waves. Some misleading results which arise from neglect of this term are discussed."
"Experimental results are presented to show the energy distribution of the output signal of a phase-locked loop when used as an FM demodulator. This effect is related to the cycle-slipping phenomena and the modeling of equivalent circuits."
"It is shown under which conditions two parallel high-Q resonance RLC circuits connected in series to a voltage-controlled active device, described by an instantaneous characteristic of fifth degree, can oscillate simultaneously at two frequencies."
"It is shown that the same formula used for calculating the moments of a real multivariate Gaussian process may be used to calculate the moments of a complex Gaussian process. This is a slight generalization of a result of Reed. The method of proof is simple, elegant, and self-contained."
"A circuit is developed for the identification of random events of single and paired pulses. The output pulse length of this \"controlled monostable\" circuit is proportional to the time interval of the paired pulses and the response to a single pulse is in the monostable mode."
"It is shown that the use of a circulator between the device under test and the preamplifier removes the necessity for matching and that the noise factor of the device can be obtained from simple measurements of insertion gain S21, as well as the overall noise factor if the noise factor of the circulator-preamplifier combination from a matched noise generator is known."
"Controllability is interpreted here in terms of physical properties of dynamical systems. The relation between the perturbation response of the dynamical system and the controllability is given."
"Modes of variation of current gain in planar transistors stressed locally on the emitter are described by simple mathematics. Stress effects upon both the band gap and the carrier recombination time are taken into account."
"Expressions are derived which relate turn-on delay time of MOS transistors to device parameters and input gate voltage. Calculated delay times are compared to experimental delay times with reasonable agreement."
"Antenna array excitation producing maximum gain is found. It is shown that the synthesis of an array to give the maximum gain is particularly simple when the synthesis functions form an orthogonal set over the visible radiation zone."
"This letter shows that the onset of monostable behavior of the LR loaded tunnel diode with three static equilibrium points (singularities) does not in general correspond to the transition from stable to unstable focus of the high-voltage equilibrium point."
"The traveling wave nature of implosive megagauss magnetic field production is analyzed. It is shown that the magnitude of the magnetic field can be increased orders of magnitude by the use of relativistic implosion velocities."
"Integration of a heterodyne signal over the detector area gives a variation in total signal intensity as a function of relative size of the Airy pattern which differs considerably from the fraction of total energy within circles of prescribed radii in the Airy pattern."
"In this letter, noise studies of a short Kino gun with and without cathode tilts are described. It is found that for B/Bc≈ 1 there is a sharp increase in noise without any cathode tilt in a short Kino gun. For tilted cathodes noise appears only for B/Bc> 1. Two tilts have been investigated in order to study the relative effect. A tilt produces an extra component of magnetic field at the cathode surface in addition to the magnetic field in the conventional direction. With tilted cathodes the noise output is reduced by two orders of magnitude from that obtained from an untilted cathode in a short Kino gun."
"This letter discusses an aliasing effect which has caused anomalous behavior in some recent experiments with coarsely sampled holograms. Aliasing occurs because the sampling criterion is not satisfied over the full aperture of the hologram. The result is the appearance of ghost zone patterns on the hologram which can degrade the reconstructed image. A quantitative description of this effect is presented and compared to recent experiments published in the literature."
"The simple but exact nonlinear analysis of Schottky barrier mixers by Sonine's expansion requires that a short circuit be presented to the harmful interference products. A mixer configuration, is proposed which satisfies this requirement and has excellent noise performance. A comparison is made between a computed and measured intermodulation product."
"Degenerate-type parametric interaction has been observed between the length-extensional mode and the length-width-flexural mode of X-cut quartz bars."
"Parametric amplifier analysis, taking exact account of the frequency dependence of the parametrically induced impedance in the signal circuit, indicates that maximum gain occurs at a signal frequency slightly below that at which the signal and idler circuits are resonant."
"This letter discusses the whitening-filter approach to the detection of known signals in colored Gaussian noise when there is a residual white noise component present. The existence of a realizable (i.e., nonanticipatory) whitening filter is demonstrated and the form of the processor is explicitly given in terms of the Kalman-Bucy filter."
"It is virtually impossible for a user to measure the collector series-resistance RCSof an integrated circuit by probing the chip without opening the package. This letter describes a method for measuring the RCSof a current-switch emitter-follower integrated circuit from module pins within 3.5 percent accuracy."
"This letter discusses phase intercept distortion as presented a previous letter. It also relates that presentation to another method which some readers may find more familiar."
"A tunable photon detector sensitive to only a narrow band of wavelengths is described. The detector's spectral response is the result of an optical filter based on the Burstein-Moss shift."
"A method for making planar avalanche diode oscillators which prevents breakdown at the curved parts of the junction is discussed. Preliminary results concerning the output power and output spectrum are shown."
"An avalanche-injection transistor with a geometry similar to that of a surface channel FET was fabricated. The principle of operation, performance, and some fabrication details are briefly described."
"Some accurate microwave horn gain measurements with revised proximity corrections are presented. These experimental results indicate edge diffraction is the major source of error in Schelkunoff's gain expression and suggest a value for its accuracy."
"FM noise of the Gunn-effect oscillator is considered to come from the velocity fluctuations of the high field domain. When the correlation time of the velocity fluctuations is sufficiently short, the spectrum of mean square frequency deviation becomes independent of frequency."
"The breakdown field strength in plasma oxidized Al2O3films ranging in thickness from 15 to 600 Å, was observed to exhibit a dependence proportional to s-1/4, where s is oxide thickness. This variation was found to be temperature independent."
"Multiple high-field domains have been observed in n-GaAs using a resistive point-contact probe having a 2-micron spatial resolution and a 5-GHz frequency response. The probe is easy to construct, is compact and maneuverable, and can be used for identifying oscillatory modes when n-GaAs or other bulk semiconductors are embedded in coaxial or waveguide microwave circuits."
"A simple and versatile distance transducer having exceptional null stability is described in terms of design and typical experimental results."
"Two-dimensional functions are investigated with respect to their information content. Entropy relations of two functions, related by a finite Fourier transformation, are shown to be identical. The proof demonstrates the invariant nature of a Fourier scene and a space scene as sources of a communication system."
"A definition of noise that is white with respect to a signal space S is given. It is shown that the autocorrelation function for such a process has the sifting property and is often a square integrable kernel. Two specific examples, the space of bandlimited signals and the space of digital-type signals, are given."
"Electroluminescence in the 1.49-eV spectral region has been observed in n-type gallium-arsenide-insulator-metal structures under pulsed dc bias of proper polarity. The behavior of the luminescence with bias indicates that the light output is due to radiative recombination in the semiconductor of holes which are tunnel injected from the metal through the insulating film."
"A new technique of generating multiple images for integrated circuits is described in detail. The technique is based on the Fourier-transform property of lenses. A Fourier-transform hologram of an array of point sources forms the basis for generating multiple images and determines the array of images to be formed."
"Kittel's derivation of magnetoresistance for a Maxwellian distribution of electrons has been extended to a Fermi-Dirac distribution. For a nonzero case of the tensor ∇H-, there appears a finite magnetoresistance and the condition for a minimum stray current has been found."
"Reference diodes require a constant current for temperature stability. This circuit provides constant currents to two such diodes, one with respect to each side of the supply. The resulting stability factor is in excess of 106and is maintained over a 2-to-1 range of supply voltages."
"A high-frequency method for the electromagnetic scattering by two perfectly conducting spheres is presented which employs conventional geometric optics and a modified geometric diffraction theory. Numerical results indicate good agreement with experiment and theoretical results using a different approach. The method is believed applicable for spheres of radius equal to or greater than λ/2."
"A storage cell for an associative memory is described which offers a simpler structure and a higher packing density than cryotron storage cells."
"Reverse-bias second-breakdown characteristics are compared for diffused-base germanium power transistors with different collector structures. By designing an appropriate collector structure, appreciable increase in the resistance of the transistor to reverse-bias second breakdown is observed. Simple explanations for the phenomena are also described."
"The J = 3, K = 2 inversion frequency of NH3was measured using a two-cavity maser system. These measurements provide data on the frequency stability and resetability of the two-cavity maser and an accurate value for the frequency of this transition."
"It is found that error rate of linear pattern classifiers based on the mean-square error criterion is uniquely determined by the distance between the means of two pattern classes on the real line when the two pattern classes have the normal distributions with the same covariance matrices."
"A unidirectional optical heterodyne system, employing separate transmitter and local oscillator lasers, has been placed in operation over a 2.6-km atmospheric path. A description of the system design and a comparison of the theoretical performance with measured signal outputs are presented."
"It is shown that the \"slowly varying condition\" allows a consistent separation of the linear differential equation with time-varying coefficients describing the perturbation of an oscillation in a nonlinear filtered circuit into a set of coupled linear differential equations with constant coefficients."
"A vector admittance (or impedance) formulation of certain two-dimensional electromagnetic field problems is introduced. The vector admittance function is seen to be a natural generalization of the admittance function used in transmission-line and circuit theory."
"The definition of power factor is extended in a \"natural\" way to a certain class of bounded periodic nonsinusoidal functions which probably represents all voltage and current waves that can be encountered in practice. It is shown that this generalized definition contains that of the power factor for sinusoidal waves as a special case."
"A two-dimensional diffusion theory taking surface recombination into account is utilized for measurement of the diffusion length L in semiconducting solids. Methods for simultaneous measurement of L and surface recombination velocity, and a scheme for further refinement in observation, are also indicated."
"The \"max-flow min-cut\" theorem is used to determine the maximum flow from vertex i to vertix j in a communication network. To generate all segregations that disconnect i and j, an algorithm based on the binary form of natural numbers is presented."
"Spectrum change of diode laser output light by millimeter-wave amplitude modulation is observed. The spectrum consisting of the sideband by modulation showed apparent dependence on the resonance condition of the diode dimensions. A spectrum of less than 50 GHz modulation is observed when the diode dimensions are well designed."
"Five notices: (1) Notice of Change in Coding GEOALERTS Broadcast by NBS Radio Stations; (2) Notice of No Change in Offset for 1968; (3) Notice of No Adjustment in the Phase of Time Signals from NBS Radio Stations wwv, WWVL, and WWVH; (4) No Adjustment in the Phase of Seconds Pulses from NBS Radio Station WWVB on January 1, 1968; (5) Monthly Fractional Frequency Offsets and Time Deviations for NBS Radio Stations WWV, WWVH, WWVL and WWVB. "
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"Provides an overview of the technical articles and features presented in this issue."
"The design of an experimental single-channel 224-Mbit/s (megabits per second) optical pulse code modulation (PCM) terminal is described and data are presented which have been obtained with such a terminal using a helium-neon laser operating at 6328 Å. The basic elemets is an optical gate using lithium tantalate whose design and operating characteristics are described."
"Techniques are described for optically multiplexing and demultiplexing individual pulse code modulation (PCM) channels in order to develop the terminal capability for a high-capacity optical communication system. It is shown that, using these techniques, an information capacity in excess of 1010bit/s can be achieved on the output beam of a single laser."
"Conflicting descriptions in the literature about the frequency dependence of microwave emission from InSb are shown to be the result of faulty experimental techniques. The amplitude as a function of frequency is apparently not periodic nor is frequency bunching confirmed. Several authors have claimed that the amplitude decreases with increasing frequency and this is confirmed. Coherent emission has been reported and some substantiation of this claim is given."
"A new type of electron beam activated switch (EBAS) is described which utilizes electron beam induced charge storage in the metal-oxide-semiconductor (MOS) system. The state of the EBAS is determined by monitoring the surface conductance of the semiconductor. After discussing the basic charge-storage phenomena, memory arrays that use the electron beam for storing and reading information are described. A matrix array of EBASs in which information is stored using the electron beam and read by row-column access circuits is discussed in detail. The time to store a bit of information is a function of the current density of the electron beam; an approximate dosage of 10-5C/cm2is required for storage. A memory design using Schlesinger's microspot tube for the electron optics is discussed. It is shown that storage of 1.0 × 107bits per tube should be possible with presently available electron optical design and semiconductor technology."
"Frequency multiplication by means of a nonlinear charge storage element is investigated. This element is assurmed to have an abrupt transition from an infinite to a zero capacitance. An analysis of a frequency multiplier circuit utilizing such an element is carried out with certain limitations imposed on the mode of operation in order to make possible an algebraic solution; namely that 1) only a fundamental and one harmonic current be applied to the nonlinear element, 2) only particular conduction angles be permitted, and 3) the fundamental and harmonic be subject to a particular phase relationship. These limitations permit an algebraic solution for circuit performance for any multiplication factor and for a range of conduction angles. The analysis yields directly the input and output resistances of the multiplier, in terms of which the conversion efficiency and power handling capability are derived. Design data are presented for circuits with muitiplication factors of between 2 and 20."
"The concept of reducing the required transmission rate for a given system through prediction, interpolation, or other such techniques loosely labeled as \"data compression\" is now well known. The problems in analyzing such systems by theoretical means are formidable in even the simplest situations due to the inherent nonlinear nature of the operations performed. This paper discusses these difficulties, presents some approximate and exact solutions, and suggests areas where further work is needed."
"Blaydon and Ho have recently proposed two algorithms to determine the probability p(A/x) that a sample with the set of attributes x belongs to a pattern class A, assuming a fixed p(A/x). The present letter modifies these algorithms to allow p(A/x) ≡ pi(A/x), i= 1, 2, ..., to evolve (not necessarily linearly) with i. Dynamic stochastic approximation arguments are used."
"The inherent error associated with the deduction of surface capacitance from measured MIS capacitance is considered. It is shown that the systematic component of the experimental error does not restrict the range of applications of the technique whereas any random contribution can invalidate the measurement in certain cases."
"The Simuron (simulated neuron) is a distributed active element analogous to the neuron and has learning and oblivious mechanisms. Like the neuristor, it can be coupled by two types of junctions. This letter proposes frequency memory and logical memory circuits using the Simuron."
"Although intermodulation generation in ring diode medulators is the result of switching point interference and diode forward nonlinearity, cross-modulation is the result of the latter effect only. It is shown that the concept of variable trusconductance can be used to predict cross-modulation effects in ring diode modulators."
"This report presents the circuit configuration and performance of a 140-MHz main IF amplifier satisfying the specifications for 2700- channel microwave repeaters."
"By representing amplitude-modulated and phase-modulated continuous signals (if the channel noise is white Gaussian) as a set of independent samples, the capacities of the corresponding channels are calculated. These are compared with that of a Gaussian channel, and with each other. The results are discussed."
"A laser has been constructed in which a neodymium-doped glass slab forms the core region of a single-mode optical dielectric waveguide. The observed laser output is in a single, spatially coherent, transverse mode, which is characteristic of the waveguide structure, and has a diffraction-limited beamwidth."
"Yttrium aluminum garnet (YAG) laser operation has been achieved using a single gallium arsenide laser diode as the pump. Repetition rates of 200 pulses per second have been achieved in initial experiments. Compared to flashlamp pumping, semiconductor laser pumping requires less. than 5 percent of the light energy to accomplish YAG lasing. Extraordinary repeatability of laser output, pulse to pulse, has been obtained."
"The limit in pulse repetition rate set by multimoding in the propagation of optical pulses through glass fibers is examined. Results are shown demonstrating that scattering causes a mode distribution independent of the launching conditions and suggesting that a 5-MHz repetition rate should be feasible with 1 km of fiber."
"A simple proof is given of a resistance theorem presented by Tsukada. The relation of the theorem to analog solutions of TEM-wave problems is pointed out."
"Simultaneous nonlinear differential equations of growth of two variables x and y with time can be readily solved graphically by a method in which two directrices are used in the determination of the slope of curves relating y and x."
"The results of a computer simulation show that post-demodulation processing can be used to yield an FM threshold extension of 1½ to 2dB."
"In this letter two different types of FM demodulators, called compound AFC-APC (automatic frequency control--automatic phase control) FM demedulators, have been considered. It is shown that the tracking capability of either of the systems is much higher than that of an ordinary phase-locked demodulator. Experimental results are also presented in support of the conclusions of the analyses."
"Gate leakage current measurements of the enhancement mode MOSFET taken with a vibrating reed electrometer in a carefully controlled environment indicate that zero gate leakage current can be achieved. The zero region is delineated by the change of sign in the gate leakage current when the drain-to-source voltage is increased."
"It is demonstrated that when any process α(t) (random or deterministic) is added to a random process φ(t), where φ(t), modulo y, is uniformly distributed and statistically independent of α(t), the resultant random process, modulo y, is also uniformly distributed. The process α(t) need not be independent of φ(t)."
"A negative impedance converter using a single in-line cryotron is presented. The design requires fewer active elements than conventional circuits."
"It is shown that an all-pass transfer function of any complexity can be simulated with a single operational amplifier embedded in a three-terminal RC network."
"A bandpass digital filter is described along with detailed formulas for implementing it. The method uses basic complex variable theory."
"The name \"Bartlett's bisection theorem\" has been given to three entirely different bisection principles. One alone is used both in synthesizing a three-reactor bandstop circuit having the delay properties of a Bessel n=4 low-pass circuit and also in finding its step drive and its superior amplitude characteristics."
"A solution is derived for the Wiener-Hopf integral equation where the given spectral densities are Φss(s)= A2(-s2)-j, Φnn,(s)=B2(-s2)k, j≥1, k≥0. The solution is expressed in terms of segments of Butterworth polynomials."
"Enhanced transmission through an overdense plasma layer, when electroacoustic (Tonks-Dattner) resonances are excited, has been utilized in an electrically tunable bandpass filter at L-band frequencies."
"The fundamental circuit and cutset matrices are known to be of the form [UF] and [-FtU], respectively. The matrix F may be termed the tree path matrix. A new proof is given for the unimodular property of F and hence that of the fundamental circuit and cutset matrices."
"The probability of word error is determined for a RADA (random-access discrete address) system in which m-ary transmission is employed by a random number of active subscribers. It is shown that the ratio of total system data rate to system bandwidth becomes relatively high when the average number of active subscribers is large."
"In the experiment reported here the decay law of the intensity of a thin laser beam while it bends around a cylindrical plexiglas layer under grazing incidence was investigated. It is indicated that the obtained results could be extended, under certain conditions, in order to cover long-range VHF propagation observations and justify appropriate layered models."
"An empirical approximation is used to predict the effect of surface-field dependent mobility on MOS device characteristics. Mobility dependence on both gate and drain voltages is considered. The approximation is verified by comparison with experimental device characteristics."
"Calculations are presented which show that acoustic amplification may be utilized to control the round-trip loss in an ultrasonic delay line. The feasibility of obtaining either low or high round-trip loss is demonstrated with shear waves in cadmium sulfide at a frequency of 430 MHz."
"A method is described in which a phase shift is produced, between an input sine wave and an output square wave, which is calibrated over the range -25° to +385° for a wide frequency range. The circuit is intended for use with phase sensitive detectors which are required to work with variable reference frequencies."
"A simple proof of the fact that a frequency modulation process can not be bandlimited is given."
"Time differences are measured after dynamic storage of the original flip-flop pulses and are stretched by a factor exceeding 250. Stability of the circuit is demonstrated by the absence of time jitter. The circuit presented apparently shows considerable advantages over devices applying digital counters."
"At high current levels some diodes, when reverse-biased into avalanche, can exhibit a dc negative resistance. The diode parameters affecting this negative resistance and the frequency dependence of the resistance are discussed."
"A formula is given for the noise in monostable tunnel diode circuits. Some interesting practical consequences are also indicated and experimentally checked."
"Experimental values of the dielectric, piezoelectric, and electromechanical coupling constants have been measured for zinc oxide which differ significantly from some of the previously peblished data. The values of dielectric constants and length-extensional (d31) and thickness-extensional (d33) mode constants have been determined by conventional techniques which corroborate earlier published data. A value of thickness shear (d15) mode has been determined which agrees with experimental constants determined by the use of rotated cuts. A complete set of piezoelectric is given for zinc oxide (d15= -8.3 × 10-12, d31= -5.0 × 10-12, d33= +12.4 × 10-12C/N)."
"Three basic types of the so-called emitter-coupled oscillator may be distinguished. If the power output is taken from the emitter branch, the dependence of power on frequency is small up to frequencies of approximately fα/2. An experimental power oscillator electronically tunable from 230 to 530 MHz delivers an average output power of 3.5 watts. The broad tuning range despite the high power level is due to the fact that with a series connection of inductance and varactor it is not necessary to restrict the varactor bias to the reverse region--the varactor may even be forward-biased up to slightly beyond the diode knee voltage."
"RF noise may be generated by driving a step-recovery diode with an RF CW signal. Experiments resulting in watts of VHF noise are described."
"A class B audio-frequency transistor power amplifier is described in which the advantages of zero-bias operation and electronic overload protection are achieved through the use of transistor logic. The amplifier is protected against a short to ground or power supply and has yielded below 0.2-percent distortion."
"It is shown that a sandwich structure of thermoelements for cooling semiconductor devices is more efficient than the generally used separate type of cooling system, especially in pulse operations, and this superiority is confirmed by the comparison of the intensity of radiation of GaAs electroluminescent diodes with and without thermoelements."
"Lagrange stability and a region of attraction in an n-dimensional space are considered for a certain class of differential equations which is known to arise in various physical situations. Two examples, including a nuclear-spin generator, will serve to demonstrate the technique."
"Integration of a Schottky-diode antisaturation clamp with an n-p-n silicon transistor is described. The technique is compatible with beam-lead integrated circuit technology and offers an alternative to gold doping for storage time control."
"A moving target indicator (MTI) causes a degradation in the performance of a pulse radar for target velocities uniformly distributed over the unambiguous range. It can be described in terms of a reduction in effective number of independent pulses integrated. The reduction is by a ratio of 2/3 for two-pulse cancellation and 18/35 for three-pulse cancellation."
"Output powers of 23 to 150 mW were obtained from silicon avalanche diodes with a nearly abrupt junction in the 50- to 84-GHz range in continuous operation. The maximum efficiency was about 3 percent."
"Degradation of bulk-effect GaAs devices, due to long-term use, was investigated. It was found that the frequency modes of oscillation and the volt-ampere characteristics were drastically changed due to prolonged use of the bulk-effect GaAs devices."
"Experimental ultrasonic noise figures of the CdS ultrasonic amplifier are presented along with values of drift potential at which noise saturation is observed to occur."
"This letter calls attention to a similarity between side-looking radar and holography, consideration of which emphasizes an important fundamental difference between ordinary photography and holography and between ordinary radar and coherent radar, and suggests an extension of coherent radar concepts to stationary (Doppler-free) forms."
"The possibility of a bulk neuristor using bulk negative resistance effects, including the Gunn effect, is presented. The resemblance between the properties of the neuristor and of the Gunn-effect device is noted. T- and S-junctions of neuristors have been designed using Gunn-effect devices. All digital logic functions can be realized by the proposed bulk neuristor."
"Three test values at most indicate whether a fourth-order equation with real coefficients has one or two pairs of conjugate complex roots or exclusive real roots."
"Optimum demodulation of frequency-modulated Gaussian signals in the presence of Gaussian noise is considered. A sampled-data approach, rather than a Karhunen-Loéve expansion, is employed to reduce the problem to one of finite dimensions. The derivation is based on maximizing the a posteriori probability density."
"A previously reported analytical approach to properties of bulk-semiconductor devices based on the small-signal theory is extended to higher frequencies. A frequency-independent mode of the negative conductance and higher power and higher efficiency are expected at higher frequencies, which is consistent with the LSA mode."
"A stability criterion for a nonlinear nonautonomous feedback system is presented. The criterion is a trade-off between the circle criterion and the Popov criterion by limiting the rate of change of the feedback gain."
"Three notices: (1) Notice of No Adjustment in Phases of Seconds Pulses from NBS Radio Station WWVB and Adjustments in Phases of Time Pulses from NBS Radio Stations WWV and WWVH on February 1, 1968; (2) Notice of Power Outage at NBS Radio Station WWV on January 24, 1968; (3) Monthly Fractional Frequency Offsets and Time Deviations for NBS Radio Stations WWV, WWVH, WWVL, and WWVB."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"Provides an overview of the technical articles and features presented in this issue."
"It is suggested that a medium it which the field vectors D and H depend on both E and B but are parallel to neither be described as bianisotropic. A moving medium, even if it is isotropic it its rest frame, then appears bianisotropic to the laboratory observer. This paper gives the transformation formulas for the constitutive relations of a bianisotropic medium between inertial frames in relative motion. It circumvents the necessity of knowing the constitutive relations of the medium in its rest frame. As an application of the general formulation, the dispersion relations for plane waves in a bianisotropic medium are derived."
"Any class of reasonable time-dependent perturbations occurring at random, under certain internal contraints, generates random noise having a spectral density varying as |f|αover an arbitrarily large range of spectral frequency f only for - 2 ≤ α ≤ 0. A class is the set of all perturbations which are equivalent under some individual indenpendent scaling of amplitute, scaling of time, and translation of time. A subclass is characterized by P(τ) and A2(τ). P(τ) is the lifetime probability desity. A2(τ) is a mean square amplitude of perturbations having lifetime τ. For a given class, |f|α∞and |f|α0are the frequency-smoothed laws in the limits of infinite and zero frequencies, respectively. Any reasonable perturbation has α∞≤ - 2 and α0≥ 0. To generate random noise having an |f|αlaw over an arbitrarily large range of f from a subclass chosen from any class characterized by α∞and α0, it is necessary that α∞≤ α ≤ α0. For α∞< α < α0, it is necessary and sufficient that such subclasses satisfy the condition, P(τ)A2(τ) ≈ Bτ- α - 3with B constant, over a suitable range of τ, and that P(τ)A2(τ) not be larger than Bτ- α - 3outside the range. This general mechanical model is of immediate value in the formulation and criticism of specific physical models of |f|αnoise, including flicker noise, and in computer simulation of |f|αnoise."
"Wave propagation in a nonperiodically time-varying medium provides a means for realizing in simple physical structures a variety of signal-processing operations, such as frequency translation and coding, variable delay recall, gating, time-scale stretching or shrinking, and time reversal. The use of low-velocity modes, such as acoustic, spin, or magnetoelastic waves in solids, reduces the length of the propagation structure required to less than an inch. A general review is given of the principles of wave propagation in a spatially uniform medium with nonperiodic time variation. Both abrupt and gradual time variations are discussed. Illustrations are given for the cases of spin-wave and magnetoelastic-wave propagation and signal processing operations in these media are explained. Consideration is given to the problem of spin-wave propagation in a time-and space-varying magnetic field of the form encountered in experiments; and it is shown that a simple separated variable solution exists. For the more difficult problem of magnetoelastic propagation with both space and time variations, an approximate space-time ray theory is described. Experimental results for pulsed-field processing of spin and magnetoelastic waves are given and related to the theory."
"A critical review is given of the properties of magnetoelastic delay lines, employing yttrium iron garnet (YIG) and having physically distinct input and output ports. Attention is directed to two configurations involving the materials YIG and yttrium alumium garnet (YAG), namely the YAG(nλB/4)-YIG-YAG(n/4) employing YAG quarter-wave plates λB/4, and the YIG-YAG-YIG structures. These offer the highest isolation between input and output ports coupled with the lowest insertion loss for magnetoelastic waves, under specified conditions of microwave frequency and delay. The transfer functions through the YAG material are derived in each configuration for the cases of 1) imperfect matching between the acoustic characteristic impedances of YIG and YAG, with perfect optical bonding, and 2) imperfect optical bonding. Conventional matched filter theory is used to evaluate the time response of each magnetoelastic delay line, linear variation of delay with frequency, to a linearly frequency-modulated pulse. It is established that the configuration employing quarter-wave plates gives desirable weighting of the main pulse. However, a spurious echo of unacceptable level exists, which is delayed approximately by an acoustic round trip in the nλB/4 plate, when a reasonable bandwidth is employed. Analysis shows that this difficulty does not arise for the YIG-YAG-YIG configuration. However, an external weighting network is required for range sidelobe reduction."
"Using the principle of field-effect conductivity control, a new method of image storage has been demonstrated. Based on this a new type of solid-state image panel has been developed capable of producing a stored luminescent image. This employs an electroluminescent powder layer for generation of the output image and a ZnO powder layer for control and storage purposes. In operation the exposed ZnO surface is first uniformly corona charged to a negative potential to reduce its conductivity and \"erase\" old information. Following this the panel is exposed to an optical image which discharges local areas, producing a stored charge pattern on the ZnO surface. In accordance with this charge pattern a conductivity pattern is created in the ZnO layer which in turn controls the luminescent output of corresponding areas of the adjacent phosphor layer. For producing a stored image, approximately one microjoule/cm2of input radiation in the wavelength range of 3500-4000 Å is required. Reciprocity exists between the exposure time and the radiation level. Stored images have a brightness as high as 20 footTlamberts and a maximum contrast ratio of about 100:1 and exhibit good halftones. Although a hafftone output image can be retained for periods of the order of an hour, it can be rapidly erased when desired by recharging the ZnO surface to a uniform negative potential. Present panels are 12 by 12 inches in size and have a limiting resolution between 400 and 800 TV lines."
"Ion implantation in semiconductors provides a doping technique with several potential advantages over more conventional doping methods. Among the most important of these are: 1) the ability to introduce into a variety of substrates precise amounts of nearly any impurity element desired; 2) the ability to control doping profiles in three dimensions by modulating the energy, current, and position of the ion beam; and 3) the possibility of avoiding certain undesirable effects that accompany the high-temperature diffusion process. Ion implantation can also be used in conjunction with other fabrication techniques to produce device structures that no one process can produce simply by itself. Current research in the field is directed toward several problems that must be solved before the full impact of ion implantation on semiconductor technology can be soundly predicted. In particular, it is necessary to be able to predict the distribution profiles of the implanted ions accurately, to know which crystalline sites the implanted ions occupy, to know the nature of the damage centers that are introduced by the implantation process, and to determine the extent to which these defects can he removed by appropriate annealing procedures. Theoretical and experimental work pertinent to the problem of predicting impurity distribution profiles in ion-implanted material are reviewed here. A review of current research on the other problems listed will be given in Part II, together with the characteristics of a number of interesting semiconductor devices that have already been fabricated by ion implantation."
"Given a set of sample patterns for two pattern classes, some simple expressions for the upper bound of the probability of error for a linear pattern classifier and the optimal linear discriminant function minimizing the upper bound are obtained. Using these results, if the tolerable probability of error of classifying patterns in the two pattern classes is not smaller than this upper bound, not only a linear pattern classifier is known to be feasible, but also a satisfactory linear discriminant function is given. The results presented here are independent of the probability distribution of the patterns in the pattern classes. For some special cases, a smaller upper bound is found."
"We report the first observation of crossed-field, free carrier, far infrared modulation in near intrinsic, room temperature, single-crystal germanium. A modulation efficiency of one percent was obtained in the 8- to 14-µ region when the sample was placed in a static magnetic field of 3000 gauss and an alternating electric field of 3 V/cm."
"In 1962 Erdei presented a method of constructing dual networks (as defined by Bloch) for nonplanar networks without the use of ideal transformers. In this letter we bring up a case for discussion. The difficulty which we encounter in this case indicates that the basis of Erdei's method needs a careful reexamination."
"GaAs1-xPxinjection lasers were found to emit 6440 Å radiation at an average output level of 2 × 104W/cm2from each of the two Fabry-Perot facets."
"A simple way of recording computer-generated holograms is reported. It involves recording the sign of the amplitude (hence the word binary) on computer printer paper. Also the resolution attained during reconstruction of a hologram is discussed and compared with the theoretical limit."
"Design equations for a high-frequency notch filter are presented. The filter makes use of a hybrid coil for decoupling input from output. The notch is obtained from a bridge-type balance, and can be made quite narrow."
"The theoretical possibility of using the thermal noise from a resistor to drive a motor with armature and field in series is discussed. It is shown that the armature produces thermal noise, thereby establishing a mechanism for thermal equilibrium between the motor and the resistor."
"Maxwell's equations in differential form do not distinguish between advanced and retarded solutions. Unless special precautions are taken, a point-by-point numerical integration, based on a finite-difference analog of Maxwell's equations, will lead to a mixture of advanced and retarded fields, inadmissible on physical grounds. The causality requirement can be satisfied if the Maxwell theory is expressed in integral-equation form, with retardation incorporated in all the integrands. A solution using numerical integration will then be physically acceptable."
"Dynamic range definitions for conventional photographic films emphasize the primary noise mechanisms of such films, namely grain noise. Dynamic range is redefined and noise mechanisms are discussed for photochromic and other grainless films. Measurements indicate peak signal-to-noise ratios in excess of 60 dB for photochromic memories."
"Minimum nL-products for oscillations to occur similar to the Gunn effect in GaAs have been calculated for a broad range of materials parameters, including effects of variation of dc electric field and drift velocity across the sample. The minimum nL-product is approximately inversely proportional to high-field negative mobility."
"Results concerning the design of an equalizer with an integrated envelope-error criterion using the known IF optimum equalizer are presented. The upper bound of envelope error is shown to be twice the IF error. The necessary and sufficient condition for the optimum equalizer among a class of equalizers is derived."
"Self-locking of TEM10+ TEM01modes was observed in a He-Ne laser. The laser output was modulated with a frequency difference between two transverse modes. In this case two longitudinal modes operated, and the combination tone due to three of the modes pulled in the fourth."
"Temperature-dependent I-V characteristics have been observed in thin-film diodes consisting of Al, Mn, and Pb. Straight-line plots of In I - V1/2, d in I/dV1/2- 1/T, and In (I/T2)-1/T indicate that Schottky emission is taking place. A diode was tested for 98 hours without barrier breakdown."
"CW operation of a sheet Gunn oscillator is reported. The advantages of the sheet structure for CW operation are pointed out. Also, curves for determining the temperture of the device at thresold are presented as a function of the device parameters."
"Using a thermolptastic film containing flake-like colloidal particles an optical transparency can be produced by heating the film while applying a pattern of electric fields to locally orient the particles. These fields can be controlled by an adjacent photoconductive layer, allowing an input optical image to be recorded."
"Two-port transmission amplifiers using gallium arsenide as the active element have been designed and built. These are capable of providing more than 25 dB gain in the vicinity of 2 GHz with a saturation power of more than 1 watt. Reciprocal operation can be obtained and the degree of reciprocity controlled by a relatively simple adjustment of the microwave circuit."
"An experiment is described which demonstrates the validity of the concept of compensating, by holographic techniques, for atmospheric distortions of wavefronts."
"An expression for the output SNR of an FMFB (frequency modulation feedback) receiver is derived using a linear equivalent circuit based on Rice's FM discriminator model This expression agrees with the SNR curve obtained by Frutiger using experimental and numerical data."
"It is shown that the state-variable approach may be used conveniently in connection with generalized electric machine theory. This requires that the angular velocity and the stator and rotor currents in direct and quadrature axis be assumed as state variables. With these assumptions the state equations of the generalized machine, in a stationary reference framework, are easily derived."
"It is shown that when Ni-film transducers are used to generate transverse microwave phonons in an acoustically birefringent medium, extra echoes appear in the pulse-echo pattern which arise from ultrasonic mode conversion on reflection from the Ni-film-sample interface. This mode conversion is caused by changes in the effective acoustic impedance of the Ni-film close to ferromagnetic resonance. When the medium is not acoustically birefringent, minute errors inevitably introduced in the sample preparation can cause strong phase cancellation effects in the pulse-echo pattern."
"Samples of InSb-NiSb eutectic alloy are observed to emit microwaves at 77°K when subjected to an electric field. No magnetic field is required The power of the emitted microwaves is of the same order of magnitude as that emitted from InSb subjected to electric and magnetic fields."
"The routine methods of Horner and Bairstow can be performed more efficiently and economically when one breaks the procedure into two parts, evaluating the original and the differentiated polynomial separately."
"A shorted Supercondncting solenoid will have no change in its net flux linkage in the presence of an applied magnetic field. To compensate for some field penetration into the solenoid, its central region will have an opposite proportional field. The effect is called \"overshielding.\""
"This letter describes a protection device which prevents maser saturation and permits use of the maser as a preamplifier it radar tracking systems."
"Five numerical techniques are presented which permit simulation of cathode-ray tube electron guns with speed and accuracy on a medium-sized computer. The need for these techniques is attributed to the fine resolution required to simulate the crossover region realistically. A representative example is given."
"Williams' work on charge density response in a lossy yet constant medium has been extended te a lossy time-varying medium."
"A new closed-form expression for the Fredholm determiant is derived for covariance functions which can be obtained as the output of a linear system which has a state-variable representation and which is driven with white noise. This new expression has the advantage of being the solution to a linear differential equation evaluated at one point."
"The direct equivalence between fast Fourier transforms and Butler matrices is pointed out. The parallel and extensive development of these techniques is discussed."
"This paper describes how recording devices which use an intensity modulated beam of light or electrons directed onto the storage medium in a scanning format may be used to simultaneously generate and record a correlation function. The beam intensity distribution at the recording surface must be specially shaped for this purpose, but other than this conventional linear recording techniques are employed."
"Two microstrip junction circulators have been designed and built. Bandwidths of 25 percent at S-band and 32 percent at X-band have been obtained for a VSWR less than 1.25. The maximun insertion loss is 0.4 dB at S-band and 0.6 dB at X-band."
"The reducibility of the system matrix simplifies the overall optimum design of multivariable systems. The conditions which enable the conversion of irreducible systems into reducible systems are indicated in this letter."
"Short expressions for the survival probability of a large fraction of a multiple satellite system are developed. This probability is expressed as a function of launch probability, time, and number of satellites available."
"A toroidal current pulse transformer suitable for the measurement of large microsecond current pulses is described. An accuracy of 2 percent was obtained in reproducing approximately rectangular pulses over the 0.5- to 20-µs range for amplitudes up to 250 A. The transformer gave agreement to 5 percent with a Rogowski coil system for currents up to 70 000 A."
"A beam-shape loss formula to be used in calculations of the probability of acquisition of a designated target is derived. It is applicable if the acquisition radar is operated in a searchlight mode."
"To make the best use of the analog computer, the problem to be solved needs to be modified to fit into the limits of the best operating region of the computer. This leads to the time and amplitude scaling of the problem. Conventionally only the positive values of time scale factors are considered. In this letter the negative values are also considered and this is achieved by introducing inverters in series with the integrators. Negative time scaling effectively means the time reversal of the solution. The practical use of this technique is illustrated by the examples, considered at the end of the letter."
"In an oscillator with nearly sinusoidal voltage, the change ΔI1, of the fundamental component of current owing to the presence of higher harmonic voltage components Vn, can be expressed as a function of Vn. It is shown that the relation for Im ΔI1corresponds to Groszkowski's law of reactive power balance of harmonics. An interesting relation between Re ΔI1and the sum of real powers of the higher harmonics is found."
"The open-loop resynthesis of television signals subsequent to real-time differential quantization is reported."
"A theoretical relationship, between the occurrence of peaks in component loads and the occurrence of peaks in the composite load is developed. The application of this relationship to predicting the effects of changes in load configuration is illustrated."
"A new process is described whereby quartz crystal units are vacuum baked, plated, and sealed during one and the same pump-down cycle. The crystal blanks are mounted by means of gold rivets and plated with copper. The performance potential of the resulting \"clean\" and \"strain-free\" crystal units is demonstrated at 62 MHz where aging rates below ±5×10-10per week and Q values of 200 000 are obtained."
"A variable three-terminal device (like a potentiometer) is used to achieve a perfect transformer action with a variable coupling in active networks."
"Six additional nullator-norator equivalent representations of the negative-impedance inverter are presented, along with their transistorized realizations."
"A method is presented for synthesizing patterns by a circular array which is useful for a digital computer. The method involves an integration of the pattern which leads to a matrix equation so well-behaved that it can be handled with greater facility than a general matrix equation."
"A microwave limiter using electron paramagnetic resonance (EPR) is described. This device can limit two or more signals independently and offers promise of operation over a wider frequency range than coincidence-mode ferrimagnetic limiters. An experimental model using free radical electron resonance demonstrated operational characteristics at X- band frequencies."
"This letter examines the generalized Einstein relation that holds for degenerate as well as nondegenerate semicoductors. To facilitate its use in device design, asymptotic and middle-range approximations are set down and are used to plot the diffusivity-mobility ratio against carrier concentration for silicon and germanium."
"A reflection-type microwave switch with a Gunn-effect diode has been developed which is actuated by a signal of 300 mW at 11.732 GHz with a switching time less than 1 ns, an insertion loss less thin 0.25 dB, and an on-off ratio more than 30 dB."
"Probe measurements were made oa high-resistivity GaAs samples which, under illumination, oscillate at kHz frequencies. These measurements have revealed high field domain properties which can be utilized for functional operations similar to those demonstrated with Gunn-effect oscillators, but with scanning rates several orders of magnitude slower."
"The technique described uses Brillouin scattering from microwave sound at the Bragg angle to achieve cross correlation. Spatially coherent light waves are phase-shifted in the spatial domain by a phase-modulated pulse train in an acoustic delay cell. These modulated light waves are, in turn, multiplied by a phase plate to produce the desired convolution."
"Two notices: (1) Notice of Adjustment m Phases of Seconds Pulses from NBS Radio Station WWYB and No Adjustment Phases of Time Pulses from NBS Radio Stations WWV and WWVH on March 1, 1968; (2) Monthly Fractional Offsets and Time Deviations for NBS Radio Stations WWV, WWVH, WWVL and WWVB."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"Provides an overview of the technical articles and features presented in this issue."
"Transportation appears to be one of the areas of the world economy which will reqere an increasing share of technology in the final third of the twentieth century. This has led the IEEE to devote a special issue of its PROCEEDINGS to the subject. Here are some thoughts which occurred to one of the board of editors in the process of assembling the issue. In a real way the national system mentioned here is only a part of the world transportation system and we will soon face these same problems on a world scale."
"Transportation-related activities represent approximately 20 percent of the gross national product of the United States. The urban sprawl characterizing the recent development of our cities has resulted largely from the development of a highly efficient highway transportation system. Rail systems have been developed to a high degree and, recently, new attention has been directed to this mode. Air transport has evolved from a struggling fledgling to a major industry. Nonetheless, highway, rail, and air transportation are all facing difficult problems. Some of the major areas of activity relating to each of these modes are reviewed in this paper."
"The U. S. Department of Transportation was established to bring together in one place the government's major promotional and safety responsibilities in transportation. It provides the focal point for developing a system suited to the accomplishment of our transportation objectives while at the same time recognizing the necessary relationship of transportation to other social and economic objectives. The act (Public Law 89-670) creating the Department specifies as its declaration of purpose: \"The Congress therefore finds that the establishment of a Department of Transportation is necessary in the public interest and to assure the coordinated, effective administration of the transportation programs of the Federal Government; to facilitate the development and improvement of coordinated transportation service, to be provided by private enterprise to the maximum extent feasible; to encourage cooperation of Federal, State, and local governments, carriers, labor, and other interested parties toward the achievement of national transportation objectives; to stimulate technological advances in transportation; to provide general leadership in the identification and solution of transportation problems; and to develop and recommend to the President and the Congress for approval national transportation policies and programs to accomplish these objectives with full and appropriate consideration of the needs of the public, users, carriers, industry, labor, and the national defense.\" In essence, then, the major functions of the Department are plannings, finding technical and economic solutions to all transportation policy problems, and assuring the safety of all transportation."
"This century is seeing the emergence of a new type of human settlement--the megalopolis. Megalopolises, through they are still in the developing stage, seem to be characterized by their large size in area and population, including within them large urban centers and areas of high regioual densities which are beginning to strongly interact with each other. They have already reached sizes of over 100 000 square kilometers it area and 60 to 70 million in population. Megalopolises are expected to grow in number, size, and complexity. By the first half of the twenty-first century, the megalopolitan population may constitute almost half of the earth's population. It is not too early, if we would plan for the future, to begin to study what these emerging new settlements will be like. In this paper one such megalopolitan formation, taking place around the Great Lakes area of the United States, is identified and a preliminary definition of its boundaries is reached. Features of the Great Lakes megalopolis are compared with the East Coast megalopolis studied by Gottmann. Two major findings are: 1) a time lag of 30 years seems to prevail for certain variables, the Great Lakes megalopolis being younger than the eastern one; 2) in general, megalopolitan formations show higher growth rates during the earlier phases of their development and tend to grow more slowly as they approach the later development stages. On the basis of these findings tentative population projections are made for the year 2000. It is projected that the Great Lakes megalopolis will overtake and surpass the eastern megalopolis in many respects after the end of the century. Transportation aspects will play an important role in conditioning the structure and operation of the emerging megalopolises."
"TALUS, the Detroit Regional Transportation and Land Use Study, is a four-year, 4.5-million-dollar study which will produce a comprehensive plan to guide the growth and development of the seven-county, 4500-square-mile southeastern Michigan metropolitan region through 1990. The project is divided into five phases: 1) inventory and data collection, 2) analysis and model development, 3) plan formulation and testing, 4) plan review and adoption, and 5) plan implementation. The eleven substudies in the inventory phase provide both base year and historical data which are analyzed for the purpose of developing five basic models. The models permit the determination of alternative distributions of the projected regional population and activities in response to alternative combinations of facility plans and policies, and they predict future levels of demand for transportation capacity, sewer and water service, housing units, etc. Alternative plans are evaluated from the standpoint of their adequacy in achieving stated regional goals expressed in terms of performance specifications and objectives and their administrative and fiscal feasibility. The process is a methodical, rather than an intuitive one, as required by the masses of data which must be manipulated and the multiplicity of interrelated systems which must be dealt with. The value of the process lies in the extent to which the plan can be implemented and will influence the future development of the region."
"This paper describes a study program for developing in the San Francisco Bay Area a coordinated transportation plan which will include all transportation components operating as a system. The Bay Area Rapid Transit District, now under construction, is one component; others include the agencies for Bay crossings, the major airports and sea terminals, and the various highway and road departments responsible for motor vehicle transportation. The Bay Area itself is in several stages of development. The older central section, including the city of San Francisco, has its set of problems. The southern area, including San Jose, is in a stage of very rapid growth involving hundreds of thousands of people and many new traffic generators. The northern section is virtually undeveloped and needs better access to permit growth. The problem of systematizing transportation is complex, involving a variety of needs and a variety of modes to be coordinated during planning and in operation. Evaluation of cost factors is no longer limited to the transportation facilities themselves, and it is recognized that there are new forces that demand high aesthetic standards to protect the natural beauty of the area and high environmental standards to protect air and water. The economic forces are considerable and have had much to do with the present pattern of transportation development. The author discusses the financial resources of the area in relation to system requirements and political feasibility, and presents his views of other factors that influence transportation needs."
"The components and interworkings of transport systems are outlined and described and some directions for improving our analysis capabilities are indicated. Particular emphasis is placed on the subject of demand analysis and on viewing the demand for travel as a dependent relationship between quantity of travel and the quality and price of travel rather than as a fixed \"point estimate\" or \"requirement.\" Some explicit demand models are offered for improving our travel forecasting processes, and their relationships to price and performance functions are described both qualitatively and quantitatively; in so doing, the important characteristics of and ways for representing the time-dependent performance conditions of transport facilities are explained. Buttressing the discussion of forecasting techniques-of demand, price, and performance functions and their character, development, and interrelationships-is a section noting the importance of describing the differential as well as aggregate effects of alternative designs or policies, all as part of the system analysis."
"The traffic theorist of today has an ever-increasing capacity to bring a wide range of technical skills to bear on the pressing problems of traffic congestion, delays, and accidents with their ensuing economic and personal costs. These problems are very complex, but well-defined aspects of them can be dealt with theoretically in explicit mathematical form. Illustrations are given as to how this may be done in meaningful ways to find the relationships between important variables and to determine the influence of parameter values on the performance of traffic systems. The problems discussed consider traffic flow in single and multiple lanes, interference between vehicles and queue formations, single and multiple intersection flows and control and road networks."
"The initial planning for the Northeast Corridor High-Speed Groatd Transportation System and the role of an edncational institution in assisting in the formulation of a basic poggy deciskm are described. Several options were available to the Northeast Corridor Project of the Federal Government, ranging from the least change which consisted of improving the present rail system in the Northeast Corridor to provide better and more frequent service to the most radical change--developing a wholly new system to operate at significantly higher speeds. An interdisciplinary group from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology proposed to the U. S. Department of Commerce that the Federal Government embark on a research and development program that would permit the selection and engineering of a new high-speed ground transportation system. This recommendation was adopted and subsequently implemented. A description is presented of initial results of the research program under way at M.I.T. under the sponsorship of the U. S. Department of Transportation including work on scheduling, control, suspension systems, propulsion, vehicle and tube aerodynamics, and some infrastructure or guideway problems."
"A panel convened by the U. S. Department of Commerce Technical Advisory Board in 1966 was asked to survey the technical feasibility of novel modes of high-speed ground transportation (HSGT) systems and recommend research programs necessary for the development of such systems. HSGT systems, for the purpose of the study, were defined as operating in, or on, fixed guideways at intercity cruising speeds of at least 300 mi/h (482.8 km/h). Although present knowledge of the nation's total future transportation requirements, and of the relative role of HSGT, was judged to be insufficient for a decision to construct such a system, the panel considered the creation of an HSGT system to be technically attainable and recommended a multifaceted research and development program. Specific research areas recommended were those needed to provide data necessary to a decision to construct an HSGT system and to select from among alternative system concepts. Highest priorities were assigned to system simulations and transportation data studies, resolution of the contact versus fluid support question, experimental studies of the aerodynamics of vehicles traveling it tubes at high speeds, development of new tunneling technology, and transfer of electrical energy by contact rails and collectors at HSGT speeds."
"Fundamental system and control problems associated with proposed automated ground transportation concepts are discussed. The problem formulation provides a systematic approach toward the synthesis and techinical evaluation of a large class and future systems employing automatically controlled single-mode or dual-mode vehicles on intracity guideway networks. Important system engineerig problems--common to some degree to all proposed concepts--are defined and the associated control requirements are discussed. Basic performance criteria, the weighted average travel time and relative safety of travel, are formulated. Tradeoffs between important system parameters are identified and their relations to performance and cost are discussed. Analysis of system operation is based upon idealized models in which perfect information and control are assumed. Upper bounds on performance are thus obtained, and the main constraints are identified. The degradation of system performance resulting from random arrivals and departures is thereafter analyzed quantitatively. Finally, control problems arising from the use of short headways are discussed. The objective of the paper is to help develop a systematic approach to the design of automated transportation systems using digital computers and modern electronic communications. It concentrates on the functional system problems of relatively simple networks, which lend themselves to direct analytical approaches and which constitute a point of departure for more complex networks."
"When oceanborne transportation is mentioned, one reaction is to think of the \"decline of the merchant fleet\" and \"outmoded\" ships. Such opinions may be partially correct if applied to a few segments of the world's merchant fleet, but nothing could be further from the truth than to apply such geaeralizations to the total world picture. Oceanborne transportation was and still is for all practical purposes the key to world trade and in spite of the rapid development of air transportation, in the foreseeable future it will carry the vast majority of goods in world trade both in terms of value of cargo and cargo tonnage. Oceanborne trade is expanding very rapidly and with its growth the efficiency of operations in meeting increasing demands becomes of ever-increasing importance. It is obvious that operations research and systems analysis have to be applied to oceanborne transportation becanse it is but one leg of a larger transportation system. As a result of this application, we see a revolution in oceanborne transportation which will bring with it many changes in traditional patterns. Some ships are becoming much larger and others are becoming both larger and faster; shipboard automation is being introduced; but the most important changes of all are taking place in methods for cargo handling. Not only has this led to specialized ships such as container ships, but it has revolutionized port operation concepts: transportation by sea is at last becoming a truly integrated part of a world-wide cargo distribution system."
"Propulsion factors have a major influence on the characteristics of transportation systems and their economics, and advances in transportation have been keyed to advances in propulsion technology. Propulsion concepts conceived in the past 30 years have completely revolutionized air, land, and sea transportation,The turbojet engine, the diesel-electric locomotive, and the nuclear submarine are each uniquely suited to their applications and it is difficult to conceive of new systems which would offer significant advantages for current conditions. However, as new transportation concepts are developed, new propulsion requirements are arising and these may be served best by new propulsion concepts. Research on improved batteries, fuel cells, thermionics, and new types of heat enghtes may lead to propulsion systems uniquely suited to future transportation systems; in addition, rapid transfer of advanced aircraft engine technology to other transportation modes can be expected."
"In densely populated regions, tunnels hundreds of feet below the earth's surface may be attractive guideways for high-speed transportation systems. Advantages include stability, isolation from weather variations, ease of positive control of the system, absence of interference from other structures and transportation modes, and potential alternative uses of the tunnels for such functions as storage, fluid transport, and defense purposes. If the system terminals are located near the surface, propulsion and braking requirements of the vehicles can also be greatly simplified. The principal deterrent is construction costs. These are being reduced by mechanized tunnelling mechines now undergoing much development but hard, strong rock still requires slow, expensive drill and blast techniques. Research to rapidly weaken hard rock so mechanical moles can tunnel it economically is being done. Both thermal treatments and the use of water-borne surface active agents are effective weakeners. A 1000-watt continnous-duty CO2laser can reduce the strength of marble or granite by a factor of ten in 3 to 5 seconds exposure time."
"Communication and control represent a small but important part of the overall transportation problem. Although communication and control differ depending on whether land, sea, or air transportation is involved, there are broad areas of similarities between many of the principles being used for these applications despite the differences in the equipment and detailed practice employed. Control is used to refer to such varied meanings as the control of the translation and rotation of a single vehicle and its associated stability, the control of the propulsion plant, the control of the necessary auxiliaries of voltage, temperature, pressure, etc., and the control of multiple vehicles by either local or centralized methods. Attention is given briefly in this paper to each of these aspects of control. Many of the principles involved are illustrated in more detail elsewhere in this issue where specific transportation control systems are described. Communication is used to refer to the means for tying together the different parts of the transportation system located at different places but sharing a common set of facilities at similar or different periods of time. Communication is required to provide adequate sensor information about such conditions as the position, velocity, and acceleration of the various vehicles involved in the system. Communication also may be required to establish guideways for the plane, ship, train, or car to move by. For multiple vehicles, commmaication is needed to exchange information between the control center and each of the vehicles concerned. Communication and control can have a vital role on such overall characteristics of a transportation system as safety, capacity, reliability, speed, and economy. It is in the fields of control and Communication for multiple vehicles that the greatest effort will be required in the immediate future."
"Considerable improvements in highway capacity and highway safety can be achieved by vehicle automation. Many approaches to automation are possible, with any given approach depending on one's premises concerning the future state of the transportation system. Described here is the approach taken at the Communication and Control Systems Laboratory of The Ohio State University, which is based on the following: 1) the individual transportation unit should be retained; 2) an automatic system should be gradually introdnced and be compatible with existing traffic at all stages; and 3) only limited-access highways will be automated. The resulting design is divided into three parts-longitudinal control, lateral control, and intersection and lane-changing control. Two aspects of the longitudinal control problem--automatic system control and driver control--are discussed in detail Typical road-test data from both an automatic longitudinal control system and a driver-aided system are presented. In addition, an automatic steering system is discussed together with typical experimental results."
"The Burean of Public Roads of the U. S. Department of Transportation, through the Traffic Systems Division of its Office of Research and Development, is conducting a major research program in the fields of highway traffic surveillance and control. The effort involves in-house, coatract, and cooperative Federal-State research. Being given individual as well as integrated systems consideration are urban highway networks, freeways and rural multilane highways, and two-lane rural highways. Among the many projects trader way or being planned are several \"major emphasis\" projects, offering particularly great potential for rapid payoff, together with related theoretical research. These include: 1) an urban traffic control system, utilizing a digital computer, for research into advanced signal control concepts 2) a refined ramp-freeway merging control system 3) advanced freeway flow modelling and surveillance techniques and possible automation of flow 4) a passing aid system for two-lane rural highways, to permit passing on roads with restricted sight distances 5) an electronic route guidance system to supplement signs 6) use of cooperative passing motorists to advise of drivers needing help 7) overall systems analysis of highway communications. Also under way is a broad long-range analysis of the function of transportation."
"Faced with an ever-increasing economic loss due to traffic congestion and accidents, the Metropolitan Toronto Authorities investigated the posibility of improving conditions through the use of a general-purpose digital computer to optimize in real time and on line the operation of traffic control signals. Following the successful conclusion of a small-scale pilot project, approval was obtained for a completely integrated system designed to incorporate some 1000 signals distributed in complex network formation througbout an area of some 240 square miles. Converting the concept into reality required the design and installation of a considerable amount of specialized equipment, such as vehicle detectors, together with the development and preparation of complex computer programs including both control and analysis routines. With the initial stages of this work more or less complete, testing of various control philosophis commenced, starting with the least sophisticated and gradually working up, while continually studying actual traffic conditions so that levels of performance could be judged. After four years' effort, some 500 out of 850 existing signals are under computer control for an average of 15 hours every day, with the result that the time required to make any given journey has been reduced by an average of about 10 percent, even though the operational flexibility is still to some extent limited. A part from this major improvement, sufficient other benefits both direct and indirect have resulted from system operation to prove the validity of the original concept, especially on economic grounds. A conservative estimate indicates that, for a total capital outlay of some $5 million, wastage attributable to congestion and delay will be reduced by some $20 million per year."
"Industrial, agricultural, and military vehicles are classified as \"off-highway vehicles\"; the class includes tractors, ore trucks, scrapers, and military tanks. These vehicles have prime movers in the 100-to-1000- and-higher horsepower range, generally have top speeds up to 35 mi/h, and operate from low speed at the traction limit to maximum speed over a wide constant-horsepower range. To date, diesel enghtes with gear-shift and torque-converter transmissions have been used. Now, however, the gas turbine has become attractive because of its low weight and bulk per horsepower, particularly for those vehicles whose performance can be raised with higher power. An electric drive system is well suited to a gas turbine prime mover as a means for utilizing the high turbine speed, for handling the large horsepower, and for distributing power to many wheels. On some special heavy vehicles, dc drive systems, patterned after diesel-electric locomotives, are used. Several ac systems using solid-state converters and induction wheel motors have been built experimentally for military vehicles. When all factors are considered, it appears that the combination of the gas turbine and an ac electric drive will become the heavy off-highway vehicle drive system of the future."
"The traffic congestion in and around Tokyo has become intensified year after year, and the subway has come to be looked upon as the most effective way of eliminating it, or alleviating it to an appreciable extent at least. The Teito Rapid Transit Authority (TRTA) in Japan has had an automatic train control (ATC) system in operation for many years to ensure safety adequately while fully exploiting its service efficiency. In the face of ever-increasing population and transport demand, the Authority in its quest for higher efficiency and safety in train operation pioneered in developing an automatic train operation (ATO) system and has been testing it on the Hibiya Line since 1962. Under the ATO, all train functions-notch-in, power running, coasting, braking, and stopping--are performed automatically. The motorman simply presses a pushbutton to start the train, which then runs on safely under ATC and stops smoothly, accurately, and automatically at the next station. We are satisfied with the results of tests in regard to the durability, reliability, and accuracy of the system as well as in regard to riding quality. The Authority is convinced that by putting this new system into operation the ATO can carry on passenger service at a shorter headway, with greater safety and accuracy, and can expand traffic capacity to some extent. Further study is now under way to improve the system by combining a centralized traffic control system and an inductive radio system, in order to exercise group control over all the trains on the track."
"The electorate of the three-county core of the San Francisco Bay Area voted in November, 1962, to finance and construct the largest locally financed public works project in the history of the United States. The Bay Area Rapid Transit District (BART), in the fall of 1963, began organizing for the separate but overlapping tasks of system design, construction, and operation. Within four years, most of the 3600 parcels of property needed for right-of-way, approximately half of the construction contract commitment, and virtually all of the basic design for the 75 miles of aerial, tunnel, subaqueous tube, and freeway median track had been completed. Revenue operations are scheduled to begin in 1970. Three engineering firms in a joint venture have had principal responsibility for design and construction supervision, subject to direction by District engineers and managers. Efforts by these consultants will gradually dwindle as construction of the initial system is completed and District personnel take over the operation of the automated system. The District and its consultants have attempted to make each phase of the system attractive and inviting. The most significant technical advancements of the art have been in the areas of automatic train operation and automated fare collection."
"This paper describes the technical features of the New Tokaido Line and is composed of seven sections. Section I presents the historical and social background of the construction of the NTL. Section II describes the technical and economic studies on the relation of the NTL to the existing narrow-gauge line and its social and economic influences, etc., which were used in making the fundamental decisions about track gauge, route, maximum train speed, motive power, etc. Section III presents the features of the operation control system. Section IV gives a comparison with the narrow-gauge line, describes the features of ground facilities such as the roadbed, bridges, tunnels, track, buildings, power source, overhead equipment, signaling facilities, and communication facilities, and mentions a study on high-speed train operation of similar facilities conducted by the Railway Technical Research Institute and on the test run section. Section V discusses the trend of traffic since the inauguration of the new line and the measures taken to solve the problems involved in the facilities in the face of an increase of traffic. Section VI describes the present state of maintenance of facilities and the problems involved. Finally, a general view of the planned New San-yo Line as an extension and improvement of the New Tokaido Line is presented in Section VII."
"A general analysis of the forces and power requirements for transportation in a natural atmosphere is presented in the first part. A good picture of this problem can be achieved by drawing plots of stresses against speed. The second part surveys the major characteristics of a transportation service and their relation with the most important technical data concerning vehicle and track. The third part is concerned with the representation of the dynamic response of a tracked air-cushion vehicle (TACV) to excitation from track form's tolerances when the speed is varying. Some experimental results are shown."
"Railway signaling originated from the basic needs of safety, but its development has permitted the exploitation of wider facilities, in the form of considerable economies and increased efficiency, coupled with the attainment of higher speeds and improved control. It is closely supported by telecommunications techniques, both in ancillary functions and in characteristic railway communication networks, using land and radio transmission media. Signaling is based on the principle of \"fail-safe\" and complete reliability; at first it was effected by mechanical means, but subsequently supported and replaced by electrical means, the latter method proving itself, by means of specialized application and method, to be the most suitable for the very exacting performance demanded. The introduction and improvement of electronics is now playing an increasing part in the operation of railways, and holds much promise for greater application in the future, taking under its wing not only control and peripheral installations as they are known today, but also new capabilities in the form of revenue collection, data handling, and streamlined administration. The recent trend is toward automation, to which railway systems are particularly adaptable, but there are still many unsolved problems. In signaling and conununications, managements have not only the best possible insurance policy, but an indispensable tool for commercial viability; these two assets will play a large and vital role in the imminent transport explosion of the future."
"A discussion is presented of the potential market for vertical takeoff and landing (VTOL) aircraft and the factors which cause this market to exist. An evaluation is given of the ability of the VTOL aircraft to compete with other means of transportation, along with a determination of the design criteria that the aircraft will be required to meet to be competitive. Possible configurations are suggested for various time periods, including examples that are currently being studied. The technical implications and requirements of a VTOL transportation system are discussed."
"The Boeing SST is being designed specifically to operate at speeds up to 1800 mi/h (2896.2 km/h) and altitudes in excess of 60 000 ft (18 288 m). At nearly three times the speed of subsonic jets and double their operating altitude, it will be capable of carrying 300 or more passengers over distances up to 4000 miles (6437.2 km). This increase in productivity will permit the continuation of growth in the air transportation industry by alleviating the constraints currently experienced by added numbers of less productive aircraft. Titanium structure, engines capable of over 60 000 lb (2.67 × 105N) maximum thrust each, and variable-sweep wings are just some of the features which set this advanced aircraft apart from present-day jet transports. Equally important, though seemingly less spectacular, are the significant advances in technology applied to the design of systems such as the electric power system, the integrated flight instrument system, the flight control electronics system, the airborne integrated data system, and the navigation system. A brief description of the airplane, its performance characteristics, and operating environment is presented. Emphasis is given to systems which differ from those of current commercial jet aircraft, with particular attention given to the electrical and electronic systems."
"The paper introduces the current techniques of constructing large ships in Japan and stresses the complicated and laborious features of this kind of industry. It also presents a comprehensive description of how and to what degree the electronic computer has so far been applied to design, building, materials preparation, and labor management. In conclusion, a wider adoption of the computer in the future is foreseen when the problems associated therewith have been solved."
"The advent of new machines using an unexpoited natural phenomenon and offfering man unique transportstioa opportunities imposes new technical problems along with exciting possibilities. In particular, the idea of large-scale ships moving over water at speeds upwards of 100 knots presents special problems requiring special solutions. The surface effect ship (SES) is a fast ocean-going ship employing a self-generated cushion of air for lift support, reduction of resistance, and reduction of rough water loads and motions; such ships are envisioned as capable of approximately 85 knots in sea state 4 and possessing transoceanic range with an economical payload and survivability in the open sea. The minimum size for full satisfaction of these criteria is expected to be about 4000 tons full load displacement. The Navy and Commerce Departments are jointly sponsoring a cooperative research program which is to establish the feasibility of designing and building large high-speed surface effect ships. This paper describes the salient features of such craft, sets forth the regions demanding greatest engineering development, discusses briefly the commercial and military future of SES, and explores the problems associated with multithousand-ton ships moving at 100 knots in opea sea conditions."
"A discussion of the rationale, engineering, and economic developments that led to the increasing adoption of containerized ocean shipping for break-bulk and other dry cargo is presented. The concept of containerized ships, the handling of containers ashore and on board, and their marshalling, control, and consolidation is described, followed by a survey of the requirements for data handling and document control and the effects on the operational and functional sequence of cargo and information flow. The requirements of integrated transportation and the resulting aspects are evaluated."
"Normalized design curves useful in constructing broadband, 4-to-1 impedance matching, transmission line transformers of predictable performance are presented. Insertion loss plus the magnitude and phase angle of input impedance as functions of the length and characteristic impedance of the transmission line are included. Measurements demonstrate close agreement between measured and calculated performance."
"The explanation of the thermodynamic paradox given by Gardiol is shown to be fallacious for physically possible situations. Gardiol's argument leads to the conclusion that loss-free reactances cannot exist and the fallacy may be removed by regarding the loss-free case as the limit in which losses become vanishingly small."
"A high-power pulsed water vapor laser beam passing through humid air produces a large amount of sonic energy easily detected by the ear. Using an ultrasonic transducer as a detector the effect has been observed on eleven emission lines between 17.55 microns and 78.41 microns. This detection scheme is very useful for laser alignment and beam tracing."
"A one-dimensional gain equation for the solid-state traveling-wave amplifier is derived including the effects of cold-circuit attenuation, diffusion, collision damping, and asynchronous drift velocity. It is shown that for the synchronous case a growing-mode solution exists. The gain of a typical InSb device is found to be +4.38 dB/cm."
"This letter presents a new transistor called a mesh emitter transistor (MET) which is designed for high power in a high-frequency range. The output of 10 watts at 400 MHz was obtained with 7 dB gain and 50 percent efficiency in spite of a small collector area of 0.16 mm2."
"A numerical integration scheme is presented which 1) is stable for stable, linear systems and 2) has an error which varies as T4for linear and nonlinear systems."
"The probability of error is obtained for a simple but fundamental form of a laser binary communication system. The results show that the probability of error is strongly dependent upon absolute signal level as well as signal-to-noise ratio."
"Simple expressions for the dependence of hole and electron mobilities upon free carrier densities are utilized to derive equivalent representations of the diode equation as well as other solid-state device equations. The resulting mathematical models vividly display the effects of impurity concentrations in the semiconductor regions on important device parameters."
"Relaxation effect for intervalley scattering of electrons has a great influence on LSA oscillations at high frequencies. The dc to RF conversion efficiency of LSA oscillations monotonically decreases with frequencies higher than 10 GHz in n-GaAs and vanishes at several hundred GHz."
"A further discussion and some improved results are given for the approximation techniques presented previously."
"A simple alternative proof of Tsukada's resistance theorem is presented."
"A representation is given of an Ebers-Moll model with charge control that employs only standard circuit elements. Storage of carriers associated with current flow is represented with the aid of two current-controlled voltage generators."
"The high-power bulk GaAs oscillator operating in the quenched multiple dipole mode is described and analyzed. It is shown that this oscillatory mode could give dc-to-RF conversion efficiencies of up to 8 percent at several times the normal Gunn transit-time frequency, and that the power output is directly proportional to the semiconductor volume."
"The current distributions on a cylindrical monopole antenna in hot plasmas of varioas densities have been measured. It has been observed that the antenna carrent distribution is essentially controlled by the electro-magnetic mode when the antenna frequency is higher than the plasma frequency. When the antenna frequency is lower than the plasma frequency, the antenna current distribution exhibit unusual behavior. The effect of the electroacoustic mode on the antenna current is discussed."
"A technique is described for removing certain errors in two-port parameters obtained from transmission measurements. The calibration procedures and necessary transformations for error removal are presented. Included is a general transformation for changing S-parameter impedance normalization."
"FM detection can be achieved by using a product detector and a phase-shift network. Analysis of a fully balanced detector consisting of three differential transistor pairs leads to a generalized expression for the frequency transfer function. Experimental measurements on a monolithic product detector show good correlation with the theory."
"A form of equipment is suggested which allows the quadratic component of phase to appear as a phase difference, obtained from the phase response at four uniformly spaced frequencies. A possible application is the estimation of FM distortion in wideband media using relatively simple instrumentation."
"In this letter calculations are presented to determine the growth rates of signal waves in a time-space periodic, dispersive medium and these are compared to a similar coupled mode description."
"The Schott equation for the power radiated by a charge moving uniformly in a circular path is derived for each harmonic of the frequency of revolution by computing the rate of work done on the electromagnetic field. A certain amount of simplicity is gained by the use of a Fourier transformation in the direction of the axis of the circular orbit."
"Series connections of IMPATT diodes are capable of giving high microwave power output at a reasonably high impedance level. The series combination avoids many of the stability problems associated with parallel combinations. A series combination of three diodes mounted on a diamond heat sink produced a C3V 13-GHz output of 4.5 watts with an efficiency of 6.4 percent."
"A technique is described which utilities certain properties of thin liquid crystals to convert the distribution of an electromagnetic pattern into a corresponding visual display, without the need for scanning. Plates covered with a layer of cholesterol have been prepared which changed their local coloration in proportion to the intensity of microwave radiation. Some theoretical explanationss are suggested and applications mentioned."
"For a double-ended Laplace transform pair f(t) and F(s), it is proved that f(0+) - f(0-) = lims → ∞sF(s). The relation is useful in determining the continuity property of the correlation function at τ = 0."
"A theoretical investigation is presented of the coupling between the backward wave propagating in a longitudinally magnetized yttrium-iron-garnet (YIG) rod enclosed in a cylindrical waveguide and the slow space-charge wave associated with the drift carrier stream in the semiconductor which contains diffusion and collision effects. These effects play an important part in the behavior of space-charge waves, but the slow wave always exists in ordinary semiconductors. When the drift carrier velocity has a value on the order of 5.106m/s, an effective coupling is easily obtained using a single-crystal YIG having a small linewidth."
"It is shown that driven pulsed oscillators behave in a manner very similar to driven CW oscillators. Simple criteria are given which allow one to decide easily from the frequency spectrum if the oscillators are locked or not."
"It is shown that the results of Bennett, Curtis, and Rice which evaluate the distortion in the phase of an angle-modulated wave caused by a single echo also can be used to determine the distortion in phase which results when the echo-producing mechanism is followed by a device which converts AM to PM."
"Holograms recorded at microwave, acoustic, and other long wavelengths inherently produce image distortion when reconstruction is accomplished at visible wavelengths. A technique is presented for the reduction or elimination of this primary distortion."
"A simple method for measuring current waveforms and electronic characteristics of a quenched-mode Gunn oscillator is described. Experimental results for voltage and current waveforms, i-v characteristics, and electronic admittance are included."
"The theory and performance of an electronically tunable transit-time oscillator are presented. The ferromagnetic resonance properties of a YIG toroid were used to magnetically tune the frequency of oscillation over a 3000-MHz frequency range with a minimum output power of 1 mW at X-band."
"From an examination of the dependence of MOS transistor threshold voltage on substrate biasing conditions, experimental evidence is presented which indicates that at least part of the shift in threshold voltage which results from gold doping can be attributed to ionized gold acceptor states near the silicon surface."
"The characteristic curve is shown of an adaptive component based on the Faraday effect in a single-crystal GdIG. The variations in the gain of the component have been obtained by inducing partial switching in the garnet with magnetic field pulses shorter than the switching time."
"Multipacting breakdown data have been obtained in 50-Ω rigid coaxial transmission lines for frequencies above 150 MHz. The data show very good scaling correspondence with those obtained previously at frequencies below 150 MHz."
"A description is presented of a new measariag device using three directional couplers and providing an easy way to measure the complex reflection and transmission coefggients of a symmetrical two-terminal-pair structure."
"The generation of even subharmonic ultrasonic shear waves in photoconducting CdS was detected by using Brillouin scattering of a laser beam for fundamental frequencies in the 1000-MHz region. By means of a microwave cavity technique, the fundamental was transduced directly into amplifying CdS which had a gain peak in the subharmonic frequency region."
"A GaAs-Esaki diode oscillator was locked to the 42nd subharmonic of its 4.2 GHz output. This output, in turn, was used to injection-lock a Gunn oscillator to 4.2 GHz."
"Discharge current charges and variations of side light of a CO2-N2-He laser due to chopping of laser action are investigated experimentally. Depending mainly on CO2partial pressure, an increase or a decrease of current is observed if laser action is stopped."
"Optical memory planes are proposed in which writing and nondestructive reading would be performed optically using a laser-induced inhomogeneity of refractive indices which has been observed in poled single crystals of LiNbO3and LiTaO3. Writing times of the order of 0.5 millisecond using a 0.4-watt Ar laser with a bit density in excess of 106per square inch appear feasible."
"Optical excitation by the spontaneous radiation in the single GaAs laser with two junctions was investigated. A threshold current decrease of 22 percent and significant lasing modes were observed at 77°K."
"Two notices: (1) Notice of No Adjustment in Phases of Seconds Pulses from NBS Radio Station WWVB and No Adjustment in Phases of Time plllses from NBS Radio Stations WWV and WWVH on April 1, 1968; (2) Monthly Fractional Frequency and Time Offsets and Deviations for NBS Radio statim WWV, WWVH, WWVL and WWVB."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"Provides an overview of the technical articles and features presented in this issue."
"This paper discusses the history, device theory, characteristics, applications, and future trends of voltage varible capacitor tuning. All equations are stated in terms of two general exponents of power law functions, namely the impurity distribution proportional to xmand the differential capacitance proportional to (V + V0)-n. The role of these exponents is shown in the device theory, the temperature drift, linearity in a VCO, and the cross modulation in an FM modulator. Important results from many papers and reports are cited to reinforce the ideas presented. Throughout the review, the desirability of the exponent n = 2 is reiterated."
"The propagation properties of a crystal waveguide are derived using a model where dielectric constant and couductivity increase with depth according to a simple algebraic relation. The model is more realistic and consistent with currently available geological information and with reasonable extrapolations of crustal properties than are previously treated models. The mathematical analysis, moreover, is straightforward and rigorous, leading to an explicit analytical solution in the form of a mode expansion, the individual terms of which can be written in closed form. Numerical evaluation of the model leads to a total attenuation rate (for the dominant mode) of 0.256 dB km for a frequency of 1 kHz. A geologically critical attribute of the model is a positive temperature gradient with depth as the principal controlling influence on the electric profile. A temperature gradient lower than the one used in constructing the model would significantly reduce the attenuation rate."
"Statistical experiments have been performed on the photostore to test its reliability as a mass storage system. Errors are analyzed with respect to rate, distribution and susceptibility to correction by several codes. The experimental results reported are based on disks recorded by optical techniques. Experimental results on disks recorded with electron beams will be reported separately."
"The electric field and potential distribution in the gap between a cylindrical rod having a hemispherical tip and an infinite plane perpendicular to the cylinder axis was determined using a charge simulation technique. This method assumes a charge at the center of the hemisphere and a finite number of semi-infinite axial charges in the cylindrical portion of the rod electrode. Boundary conditions in the cylindrical and spherical portions enabled the formulation of simultaneous equations whose digital solution yielded the assumed lumped charges. The digital computer program provided values of the potential and both field components anywhere in the gap with an accuracy of about 2 percent."
"The stability of linear time-invariant multivariable feedback systems is studied from their open-loop transfer function matrices. It is shown that the stability of a multivariable feedback system depends on the determinant of the loop-difference matrix (det(I + G1G2)) and the characteristic polynomials of its open-loop transfer function matrices. The controllability and observability properties of the feedback system are considered. Hence the stability conditions insure the stability at the output terminals as well as at the state variables of the system. These conditions can be easily checked by using Nyquist plot, the root locus technique, or the Routh-Hurwitz criterion."
"Experimental data on sea echo at a 1.06-micron laser wavelength at normal incidence are discussed. The experimental data over a variety of sea states indicate that the return signal is definitely range-square dependent and that the effective target cross sections (σ0) are 0.15±0.08 and 0.24±0.12 for smooth and rough surface water conditions, respectively. Additional considerations concerning laser spot size at the ocean and its effect on signal returns are discussed."
"This paper reviews statistical, adaptive, and heuristic techniques used in laboratory investigations of pattern recognition problems. The discussion includes correlation methods, discriminant analysis, maximum likelihood decisions minimax techniques, perceptron-like algorithms, feature extraction, preprocessing, clustering and nonsupervised learning. Two-dimensional distributions are used to illustrate the properties of the various procedures. Several experimental projects, representative of prospective applications, are also described."
"A microwave oscillator using a series combination of three packaged IMPATT diodes has been successfully operated. Since the series combination increases the power output of IMPATT oscillators without decreasing the impedance level, the 1/f2limitation of the power-impedance product for IMPATT diodes can be avoided. This type of series combination is suited for use at millimeter-wave frequencies."
"A modification of algorithms obtained previously for estimating the probability density function is presented. The proposed approach permits the derivation of an analytical approximation for which the normalization condition is always satisfied."
"A relation is derived between the amplitudes of the fundamental, the nth harmonic, and the bias voltage which ensures only one conduction angle per cycle in a multiplier using a step-recovery diode."
"It is shown that the two classes of driving point functions realized by Wyadrum and by O'Shea, using uniform transmission lines, are identical and further that these driving point functions may always be cascade synthesized. An alternative set of necessary and sufficient conditions for this class of driving point functions is given."
"Input-output properties are discussed of linear systems which have an impulse response of the type w(t, τ)1(t-τ) where ||w(t, τ)|| < c1exp [-c2(t-τ)] for some positive constants c1and c2. It is shown that the square-integrable inputs lead to outputs which are bounded, square integrable, and approach zero as t approaches ∞."
"A configuration is given which produces nearly uniform phase retardation of a light beam passing through the near field of an ultrasonic transducer."
"Consideration is given to the construction of an optimum differentiator to give the minimum-variance unbiased estimate of the first derivatives of random signals corrupted by white noise. It is assumed that the signals are differentiable and are the outputs of a known linear finite-dimensional (possibly time-varying) system excited by white noise. Extension of the results to consider higher-order differentiation is straightforward."
"The solution of the linear, autonomous vector differential equation x = Fx at t = mT, where m is an integer, may be expressed in terms of the matrix exponential eFT. The matrix exponential may be approximated conveniently by truncating its defining power series. A criterion for selecting the number of terms to be retained in the truncation is proposed. This criterion eliminates difficulties encountered in applying other recently proposed criteria."
"Results of a noise loading test for an IMPATT oscillator which is phase-locked to an external FM driving signal [1] are discussed. Amplification (the ratio of power output of the oscillator to power input of the driving signal) of about 15 dB could be obtained for 960 telephone message channels."
"An expression is developed which describes the expected angle error when the optical path lengths in two adjacent media and the angle of ray entry into the second medium are random variables."
"For a distributed RC network a system of linear equations is solved by reducing it to an ordinary differential equation by means of transformations of variables. The equation is solved for particular boundary conditions by using a computer and the results of calculation are shown."
"The change in the breakdown of a long air gap corresponding to the damage in the gap's distance from an earth plane when a long-front impulse voltage is applied to the gap was examined. The results of this experiment lead to the generalization of conventional breakdown characteristics of a long air gap."
"Structure and fabrication of single-gate GaAs p-n junction field-effect transistors is described. The devices employ n-type GaAs layers grown epitaxially on semi-insulating substrates of GaAs. Experimental devices indicate a cutoff frequency of approximately 2 GHz. Optimized device geometries promise operation at microwave frequencies as amplifiers and oscillators. Negative resistance oscillations above a field of approximately 3 × 103V/cm have been observed."
"Burckhardt's analysis of varactor multipliers is extended to the punch-through case. Results are given for ×2, ×4, and ×6 multipliers and indicate that an optimum punch-through condition exists for maximum efficiency."
"A nonlinear control system with time lag is transformed into a nonlinear control system with no time lag by means of certain types of transformations. If absolute stability for this transformed nonlinear control system is obtained by Popov's method, absolute stability in the nonlinear control system with time lag is realized."
"A Luneburg lens is described which has been fabricated from foam glass. The electrical performance is presented at X-band. The theoretical power-handling capability of this lens is conservatively estimated at 6 times that of an equivalent lens fabricated from expanded polystyrene."
"Recursive techniques, developed previously for obtaining the partial fraction expansion of a rational function, are now extended for evaluation of the state transition matrix. For the case of multiple and complex eigenvalues this method avoids the need for differential calculus and complex algebra, respectively."
"An investigation of junction FET noise in the temperature range of 300°K to 77°K indicates that the temperature dependence of low-frequency noise spectra may be attributed to charge fluctuations at generation centers in the depletion region."
"The threshold voltage of an insulated gate field-effect transistor is a function of source-to-substrate reverse bias. In this letter, the previously presented theory is first reviewed. It is then extended to apply to large source-to-substrate reverse bias where the source and drain depletion regions meet under the channel. The result is a pair of theoretical expressions which agree well with experimental measurements."
"This letter points out that it is possible to transmit any finite number of data elements at rates faster than the Nyquist rate. This and related results motivate an approach to communication over randomly time-varying channels."
"Two notices: (1) Notice of Adjustment in Phase of Secomls Pulses from NBS Radio Station WWVB and No Adjustment in Phases of Time Pulses from NBS Radio Stations WWV and WWVH on May 1,1968; (2) Monthly Fractional Frequency and Time Offsets and Deviations for NBS Radio Stations WWV, WWVH, WWVL, and WWVB"
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"Provides an overview of the technical articles and features presented in this issue."
"The limitations of models which can generate \"action potentials\" are discussed and reasons are given for testing all proposed membrane models by comparison with voltage clamp data. Some background information is provided and the voltage clamp methodology reviewed. Many of the membrane electrical characteristics measured by this technique are discussed and some recent observations are given to illustrate the additional data against which models should now be tested. Selected proposals for membrane models are reviewed and compared with one another and with voltage clamp measurements."
"The fluctuations of the voltage across the resting membrane of myelinated nerve fibers have been analyzed. They show a 1/f spectrum and a Gaussian amplitude distribution and are related to the net flow of potassium through the membrane. When the average membrane voltage is made more negative by means of an external current, depolarizing deflections can be observed. They cause an asymmetry in the noise amplitude distribution and a marked increase in the subaudio spectral components of the noise. The depolarizing deflections can be attributed to batch-wise inflow of sodium ions. Possible mechanisms of both types of membrane voltage fluctuations are discussed."
"The sequence of events from axon terminal depolarization to integration of information by summation of separate synaptic effects is described. Following depolarization of the terminal, transmitter substance is released probabilistically in integral multiples of a basic quantity, the transmitter unit. The average rate of unit release depends upon membrane potential, ion concentrations (particularly calcium) in the bathing medium, the quantity of transmitter available for release, and the history of synaptic use. After diffusing across the synaptic cleft, transmitter molecules interact with receptor sites on the postsynaptic membrane and cause the conductance for certain ions to increase; meanwhile, the transmitter is destroyed enzymatically or lost from the vicinity of the postsynaptic membrane by diffusion. The effects from the simultaneous action of many synapses add--often linearly--to permit information from many sources to be combined in a single neuron."
"The Hodgkin-Huxley description of electrically excitable conductances is combined with the Eccles description of synaptic conductances to provide the basis of an electronic model of nerve-cell membrane. The models are used to explore neuroelectric interactions between spatially distributed regions of a single neuron and neuroelectric activities in very small groups of neurons. Among other things, oscillations are found to conduct with progressively increasing phase lead along an axon model. Miniature reflected spikes from a trigger region are able to reset slow potentials in an integrative region. Spike synchrony is found to be common in a mutually inhibiting pair of neural models. Spike bursts occur in a mutually exciting pair. Electrical connection between trigger regions is found to be excitatory or inhibitory, depending on phase relations. A simpler electronic model, is described and shown to be reasonably adequate for simulation of small neural nets."
"Fiber connections in the central nervous system are studied both in normal material (especially with the aid of the Golgi technique) and in experimental material. Following an experimentally induced lesion of a nerve fiber or its cell body, the fiber peripheral to the point of the lesion starts to degenerate, a process termed anterograde degeneration. The first morphological sign of degeneration is an irregular outline of the fiber followed by varicosities and \"drop-like\" disintegration of the axon. The degenerated nerve fiber can be impregnated, and thus traced to its termination, with silver-impregnation methods, most of which are modifications of the reduced silver-impregnation technique described independently by Bielschowsky and Ramón y Cajal at the turn of the century. Although the silver-impregnation technique is extremely demanding, it can, when conditions are optimal, identify the synaptic fields of fiber tracts with a clarity equaled by no other method. The electron microscope technique has recently been introduced into experimental neuroanatomy, and we are currently witnessing one of the most dramatic developments in the study of interneuronal connections. The ultra-structural features of anterograde degeneration--including, among others, a general increase in electron density of the axoplasm--are specific enough to allow for an electron microscope diagnosis of degenerating terminal end-structures, and electron microscope identification of axon degeneration is rapidly becoming a routine procedure in neuroanatomic laboratories. It must be emphasized, however, that successful application of the electron microscope in experimental neuroanatomy requires a continuous \"feedback\" from adequate light microscope observations. Moreover, the serial combination of light microscope analysis, with Golgi or reduced silver techniques, and electron microscope analysis of one and the same specimen has very recently opened up some most promising lines of inquiry. Although remarkable progress in the study of interneuronal connections has been made during the last few decades, there is a never-ceasing need for more refined and more sensitive neuroanatomic techniques. Clearly, technical improvements, both in the design and performance of neuroanatomical methods, must be given highest priority if neuroanatomy is to remain abreast of neurophysiology in the joint attempt to elucidate the composition of neuron circuits."
"The neuronal network of the cerebellar cortex is discussed with strong emphasis upon its structure, but taking into consideration the recently revealed functional properties of its various neuronal elements. From the viewpoint of the experimenter this neuron network has the unique advantage of being arranged in the form of a highly regular rectangular lattice and being built up of relatively few well-known structural elements. After consideration of certain structural features of the granular layer (the receiving area of one of the two main lines of input) which suggest some important preprocessing of the arriving information, the mode of transmission of this excitation to the main part of the cortex is discussed. A functional model of the operation of the main neuron network is then proposed, based on the known geometry and functional properties of the elements involved. Some additional speculations are made about the possible functional significance of the most unusual structural feature of the cerebellar cortex: the complete separation in space (compartmentalization) of the Purkinje cell dendritic trees."
"Anatomical and physiological studies in the peripheral auditory system of the bullfrog have shown that there are two auditory receptor organs within the frog's inner ear which are sensitive over nearly disjoint frequency ranges. Stimuli whose frequencies lie between these ranges have mainly an inhibitory effect upon the response of the nerve fibers that innervate the low-frequency organ. It has been shown that the mating call, which is produced by the male bullfrog and functions to evoke calling in other males, often contains energy peaks in just the frequency ranges to which the peripheral receptor organs are optimally sensitive. The auditory nerve fibers from both organs respond most vigorously to signals whose fine temporal structure is like that of the mating call, that is, to pulsatile signals having a repetition rate of about 100 per second. Behavioral studies employing synthetic croaks indicate that for a stimulus to evoke calling it is necessary that sufficient energy be simultaneously present in the frequency ranges that excite the two auditory organs; evoked calling can be suppressed by signal components which inhibit the neural responses from fibers that respond to energy in the low-frequency range. When spectral conditions are met, calling is maximal for signals which have a temporal structure that produces the maximum neural response. It is concluded that the periphery of the bullfrog's auditory system is specialized to detect the major spectral and temporal features of the mating call and that the evoked-calling response depends upon the simultaneous excitation of the peripheral auditory organs. The possible biological significance of the latter mechanism is discussed. The relation of the other calls that the bullfrog makes to the response characteristics of his peripheral auditory system is also considered, as well as comparable relations in other species of frogs."
"Physiological studies confirm the nineteenth-century view that the phenomenon of aural combination tones has important implications for the understanding of the auditory system. Responses of single fibers in the auditory nerve of anesthetized cats were studied for evidence of combination tones when the acoustic stimulus consisted of two sinusoidal tones. The stimulus frequencies were chosen so that the combination frequency 2f1- f2, where 1 < f2/f1< 2, was approximately equal to the characteristic frequency of the fiber. The major findings are: 1) responses locked in time to individual cycles of a reference combination tone (2f1- f2) were found for every fiber, 2) the time-locked response could be cancelled by adding a combination tone (2f1- f1) to the stimulus, 3) the stimulus frequencies could be chosen to obtain responses that were predominantly time locked to the reference combination tone, and 4) the rates of discharge for both single and two-tone stimuli show a similar dependence upon sound level. These characteristics of the neural responses are similar to those expected from acoustic stimuli that contain a combination tone (2f1- f2) of amplitude approximately proportional to the actual stimulus amplitude. Therefore, these findings do not reflect an overloading type of distortion but rather some normal operating property of the auditory system. The physiological findings bear a close relation to those of psychophysical experiments on combination tones."
"Experimental studies with microelectrodes have resulted in quantitative statistical descriptions of spike discharge patterns of both cochlear nucleus neurons and the cochlear nerve fibers that innervate them. A renewal stochastic process provides a useful descriptive model for the discharge patterns of cochlear nerve fibers in the absence of acoustic stimuli. If it is assumed that the total input to a neuron is a superposition of many of these renewal processes, it is possible to derive discharge patterns for the neuron, given the way the neuron responds to its inputs. For some neurons in the anteroventral cochlear nucleus (AVCN), a model which assumes that the neuron discharges each time an input discharge occurs appears to be adequate. Certain other neurons, found in the posteroventral cochlear nucleus (PVCN), have discharge patterns compatible with the assumption that each discharge requires the accumulation of a number of input discharges. These findings are consistent with the anatomy of neurons in these two regions. Some extensions and generalizations of the modeling techniques used are presented."
"There has been a long-standing descriptive dichotomy between sensorimotor activity of the spinal reflex type, involving only an integrative pattern of connections between sensory and motor nerves within a restricted (low) region of the central nervous system, and discriminative activity, involving ascent of sensory information to a cortical level followed by an appropriate motor output from that level. That this dichotomy is not clear-cut is implicit in experiments with decerebrate and spinal animals. Recent work has shown the existence of widespread centrifugal pathways which interact with sensory inputs at quite low neural levels. Furthermore, interference with these descending pathways has an effect on discrimination quite different from that produced by interference with the classical ascending sensory systems. It is proposed that local sensorimotor configurations play an important role in determining patterns of discriminative behavior, the centrifugal pathways in turn exercising a gating influence on which of the many possible patterns is released in a given set of circumstances."
"The properties of the image-forming elements of the human eye are compared with the properties of the retina-brain system by considering them as two linear optical filters in cascade. The contrast sensitivity of the complete system is measured at a number of spatial frequencies by generating grating patterns of variable contrast and spatial frequency on an oscilloscope. Similar gratings are generated directly on the retina by means of Thomas Young interference, using a neon-helium laser as a coherent light source. In this manner the effect of the eye's dioptrics are bypassed. The quality of the image formed on the retina may then be determined from these two sets of measurements. The effect of pupil size on the quality of the retinal image is described to illustrate an application of the technique."
"The responses to be dealt with are potential changes with latencies of several milliseconds recorded from within single photoreceptors using micropipette electrodes having tip diameters less than 0.1 micron. These responses were obtained from single cones in the carp and single photoreceptors in the octopus. The intracellular placement of the electrode was achieved by mounting the retina on a vibrating table which gives it a large acceleration against the slowly advancing electrode tip. The electrode penetration is signaled by the appearance of a resting potential of - 30 to - 40 mV. In single carp cones, responses to light are hyperpolarizing. The response spectra studied statistically are classified into three groups in terms of wavelengths of maximum sensitivity. These are in close agreement with those of the absorption spectra of single goldfish cones reported by Marks and Mac-Nichol. The response of single octopus photoreceptors, studied as a control, is a graded sustained depolarization, common in most invertebrate photoreceptors. The action spectrum calculated therefrom agrees well with the absorption spectrum of the receptor photopigment. Evidence is provided that each octopus photoreceptor is selectively sensitive to a certain plane of polarized light."
"Assuming that visual responses are due to the action of particles on the membrane of the visual cells, the stochastic variability of the response should be a function of the number of particles producing it. Quantitative predictions can be made with the aid of a model proposed in previous articles. It is found that responses produced in visual cells of Limulus by absorption of a single photon have the stochastic properties which would be expected if the response to one photon were brought about by 25 particles. It is concluded from this that the processes leading to visual responses produce multiplication of particles. The effects of temperature and of metabolic poisons suggest that these processes are of chemical nature."
"This paper reviews the literature on eye movements from the standpoint of automatic control systems. Some general reference to the neurophysiology and neuroanatomy of the oculomotor system is made, but the emphasis is upon those interdisciplinary studies which, either qualitatively or quantitatively, describe eye movements within the framework of control systems theory. Reviewed are the four major subdivisions of eye movement control: the saccadic, the smooth pursuit, the vergence, and the vestibular systems. Analytical descriptions of the mechanics of the eyeball, orbit, and extraocular muscles, which are common to all these systems, are also reviewed."
"A review of the neuronal organization of the corticospinal (pyramidal) system is presented. Parameters of pyramidal tract fibers are described; special attention is paid to the existence of pyramidal neurons with fast- and slow-conducting axons which have different locations of somata over the sensorimotor cortex, different locations of terminals on spinal neurons, and different parameters of impulse activity. Two types of pyramidal descending action are considered: direct action of corticifugal signals upon motor units, and control of sensory flow to motor units and higher brain centers. Corticifugal motor signals produce predominantly excitatory postsynaptic potentials in flexor and inhibitory ones--in extensor motoneurons. The following types of connections between pyramidal fibers and motoneurons are distinguished: 1) monosynaptic connections (only in primates), 2) connections via propriospinal interneurons localized in the external basilar region and specialized for transmission of pyramidal fiber activity only, and 3) connections via interneurons of the internal basilar region and intermediate zone which transmit both segmental afferent and pyramidal activity. Evidence is presented that the activity of fast-conducting pyramidal fibers via the first two types of connections creates phasic synaptic processes in motoneurons while slow-conducting fibers via the third type render the tonic action. Properties of corresponding interneuronal groups are specialized for transmission of phasic and tonic signals. The types of pyramidal control of sensory flow considered are: 1) postsynaptic facilitation and inhibition of interneurons of segmental reflex arcs, 2) postsynaptic facilitation and inhibition of transmission via ascending pathways, 3) presynaptic inhibition of primary afferent activity, and 4) postsynaptic influences on γ-motoneurons."
"The motor output to the flight muscles of flying locusts is described briefly. Model neural networks that simulate many aspects of this output pattern are discussed. The model networks studied consisted of interconnected electronic analogs of unit patches of neural membrane. The analog units were designed by E. R. Lewis. The simplest network model, which we believe simulates the locust flight-control system reasonably well, consists of two groups of elements. The members of each group are mutually excitatory and produce bursts of impulses separated by rest periods. The two groups inhibit each other so that their bursts of activity alternate."
"The electrical properties of metal microelectrodes for single-unit recording are reviewed. An equivalent circuit is presented, the elements of which are discussed. The most important element is the electrolytic capacitor formed by the metal-electrolyte interface. Its value is about 0.2 pF/µ2at 1 kHz. The effects of exposed metallic area at the tip and platinization are described, and some consideration is given to problems peculiar to the operation of these electrodes in neural tissue."
"The electrical characteristics of a glass microelectrode can be designated as a parallel resistance and capacitance in series with a source of dc voltage. Measurement of these parameters depends upon the following factors: concentration, ionic species, pH, and the hydrostatic pressures of the electrolyte solutions inside the microelectrode and surrounding its tip. The physicochemical mechanism underlying microelectrode resistance and tip potential is interpreted as interaction of the surface charges of the glass and the conductivity of the solution inside the microelectrode. Methods for recording microelectrode resistance and tip potential, a method for filling microelectrodes at room temperature, and the automatic recording of microelectrode and tip potential are descried."
"The optimum linear receiver is described for the reception of PAM signals over a dispersive, randomly time-varying channel which causes intersymbol interference. For a wide-sense stationary channel the receiver is relatively simple. The results also apply to the reception of multiplexed signals where the modulation scheme is linear."
"Gate overlap and capacitive feedthrough in digital circuits can cause performance degradation. Effects of overlap on a basic MOSFET inverter are considered. An example shows that the inverter output can be reduced significantly due to capacitive coupling."
"The concepts of radiated and reactive powers associated with a current source in a magneto-ionic medium are examined both in the frequency and in the time domains."
"The method of characteristics is suitable for digital computer solution of TEM transmission lines. Using numerical methods, losses can be taken into account. Interconnected transmission-line networks, nonuniform lines, and nonlinear lines are considered."
"A new quantized delay-lock discriminator is described which uses fixed delay lines that are switched in and out, depending upon the output of a correlator. Two versions of the system, with analog-to-digital feedback and relay feedback, are discussed. Some experimental results are also included."
"In the study of control systems, simulation of transportation lag poses a great problem. If the input is or can be approximated by a polynomial in t, then it can be shown that the delayor can be simulated by using integrators. A perfect delay can be produced if the constants defining the input are known."
"In this letter it is pointed out that a certain synchronization problem has a Bayes-type solution and the relation between this approach and the more usual maximum likelihood solution is discussed. The asymptotic behavior of the solution is investigated."
"Ruby, Nd3+: glass, and CaWO4lasers that were pumped with a pulsed argon ion laser were operated at 300 and 77°K. Oscillation thresholds of ruby and glass lasers at 300°K were 13 and 4 mJ, respectively."
"An admittance realization is outlined of an arbitrary n × n matrix of real rational functions of complex frequency. The method achieves realization with the minimum number of capacitors, m, this being the \"degree\" of the matrix. The network is completed by positive resistors and (n + m) real-coefficient controlled sources."
"A solution for the probability of double errors in differentially coherent phase shift keyed (PSK) communication systems is presented which is simpler than previous analyses and which focuses on the cause of double errors. Results of a digital computer simulation are given which substantiate the theory."
"A systematic method of generating successive Padé approximants of a continuous function is presented. By repeatedly applying the method of bordering both for matrix inversion and for solving a set of linear equations, recursive relations are established. These relations are used to successively generate the entire family of approximants."
"As is known, astable multivibrators are used to produce square waves. A new circuit is presented which may be considered to be both a modification of the direct-coupled bistable circuit and a derivation of Puckle's time-base circuit. It automatically generates triangular waves at the transistor emitters."
"A circuit for automatically plotting two-terminal capacitance versus voltage is described. In contrast to those previously announced, this circuit has the capability of permitting the use of a voltage sweep rate up to 0.1 times the carrier frequency. A fast sweep rate is useful in surface-state measurements on metal-insulator-semiconductor diodes and some results of this type of measurement are indicated for Si."
"A power output of 3.5 watts was obtained using the pulsed LSA mode at 50 GHz. Previously, power of 700 milliwatts was reported by Copeland. Bulk, n-type GaAs in a modified detector mount was used. At this power and frequency, 0.5 percent efficiency was obtained with as yet no real optimization of the circuit."
"Results of the measurement of the noise parameters of an electron beam using a sealed-off tube are presented. The data suggest that the cathode coating resistance plays an important role in determining the noise parameters S and Π."
"The discrete Fourier transform of a sequence of N points, where N is a prime number, is shown to be essentially a circular correlation. This can be recognized by rearranging the members of the sequence and the transform according to a rule involving a primitive root of N. This observation permits the discrete Fourier transform to be computed by means of a fast Fourier transform algorithm, with the associated increase in speed, even though N is prime."
"Two versions of an unsupervised learning algorithm for pattern recognition are compared by means of numerical calculations based on two-dimensional ellipsoidal pattern distributions."
"An experimental technique is described which permits direct observation of the mirror irregularity profile of a plane-parallel Fabry-Perot interferometer. Using this profile as a guide, the mirror configuration which minimizes the irregularities can be found and the interferometer performance optimized. Typical results are presented."
"The purpose of this letter is to present a method for computing the transition matrix of linear time-invariant systems. Due to the important role the transition matrix plays in linear system response, several methods have been put forward for its computation. A numerical computation method, which avoids the use of the eigenvalues, for the evaluation of the transition matrix is presented here."
"General equations of multiconductor exponential (or uniform) lines convenient for time-domain analysis are given by utilizing the forward and backward characteristic admittance matrices; and discontinuities are characterized by the reflection coefficient matrices. Also shown is a simple alternative derivation of the transfer matrix of such lines reported by Bertnolli."
"Optical rotation has been induced in thin samples of cholesteric liquid crystals by the application of dc or 60-Hz ac electric fields in the direction of light propagation. A power law dependence of the form R = KExwas found where R is the change in net rotation, E is the rms electric field strength, K is a constant, and x equals approximately 2.3."
"Experimental results are described which indicate a better-than-15-dB separation between the two magneto-ionic modes over a one-hop 1900-km path. This result suggests the possibility of communicating information at high frequency by modulating the transmitted wave polarization."
"Resistive networks may be considered to form a strongly Ptolemaic mth-order metric space Sm. Generalization of the no-amplification property on open-circuit transfer impedances can be shown to be equivalent to a metric transformation of Sminto a hyperacute-angled simplex Pm, congruently imbeddable in m-dimensional Euclidean space Em."
"It is pointed out that data for even-order, idlerless multipliers computed previously cannot be interpolated for odd-order, idlerless multipliers."
"The theory and experimental performance of an active RC dual-input notch filter are presented. The frequency of maximum attenuation of the network can be shifted by varying the ratio of the amplitudes of the two input signals without changing the element values of the synthesized network. Comparatively high selectivity around quite low notch frequencies is shown to be realizable."
"Two theorems which will broaden the limited class of solvable nonuniform transmission lines (NUTL) are given, using the adjoint equation for the linear second-order differential equation governing NUTL's. These theorems are considered to be of use in many NUTL problems."
"An algorithm is described which generates without duplication and with appropriate sign all the trees of a graph containing directed elements. A path-finding algorithm is extended in an application of Mason's method of expansion of paths."
"Based on experimental evidence and analytical derivations, it is shown that the overall transfer function of a resonant transfer system can be improved if the termination impedance is equal to the switching time interval T divided by twice the resonant transfer capacitor Cp."
"The existence is shown of multiple frequencies harmonically related and associated with the LSA mode, the lowest frequency being very strong and efficient. Peak power of 3.1 kW at 1.5 GHz and with 9.5-percent efficiency was obtained. All frequencies exhibit the same independence of sample length as the LSA frequency."
"A technique for determining system transfer functions is presented. The development is similar to that commonly used in deriving the Chapman-Kolomogorov equations for stochastic processes."
"To control the microwave output power of avalanche oscillation, a three-terminal p-n-p or n-p-n layer oscillator is proposed. Experimental results with germanium p-n-p transistors are described."
"A simple method of obtaining limiter outputs is obtained by expanding the transfer characteristic in a Fourier series. As an example, for two equal input signals, the output below peak power is obtained as the transfer characteristic varies from a hard limiter to a linear device."
"New miniature (∼2 mm) piezo-junction pressure transducers incorporating GaSb and GaAs tunnel diodes are reported. Using all-molded mechanical linkage the devices have performed reliably and have resolved pressure signals of the order of 1 mmHg."
"In many applications of the RC parallel-T null network, only two performance characteristics are considered important--the frequency and depth of the attenuation notch. In the design presented, four component values may deviate from design values. The measured values of these four components are used in calculating the values required for the remaining resistor and capacitor. Network production is simplified since performance is made dependent upon realizing a prescribed value for two rather than six components."
"The characteristics of a specific tropospheric scheme are examined, in a search for a possible explanation of some field types recorded in microwave line-of-sight paths. We deal with a category of waveguides consisting of a homogeneous atmospheric slab bounded by stratified layers with plane interfaces. The obtained numerical results justify a type of recorded field, characterized by rapid fluctuations around a median near the free space level."
"In magnetohydrodynamics, infinite cylindrical configurations with a radial magnetic field cannot generally be used to model rectangular configurations. Consideration must be given to the necessary variations in the axial magnetic flux in order to create the radial magnetic field."
"The treatment of magnetohydrodynamics problems by Panofsky and Phillips has been extended from infinite to finite conductivity of the fluid, and the energy-transport velocity of the induced electromagnetic wave in this fluid has been derived."
"A system for the simultaneous production and reconstruction of acoustical holograms is proposed. It uses electron beam scanning techniques to produce a variable transmittance hologram that can be reconstructed by the usual laser techniques."
"In traveling-wave field-effect transistors there exist two kinds of operation depending on the mutual coupling of input and output lines: Pure transconductive coupling leads to the well-known distributed amplifier operation; mixed transconductive and capacitive coupling leads to exponentially growing waves and to a peak in the frequency response."
"A standard configuration composed of RC and operational amplifiers is used for the realization of any second-order voltage transfer function. The approach blends well into the hybrid microelectronics field and promises absolute stability and very low sensitivity."
"Theoretical results are derived for the transmission efficiency in an IMPATT diode oscillator. The transmission efficiency is a measure of the RF losses in the passive diode resistance and the circuit which couples the diode to the load."
"Two electrooptic effects in monodisperse nontronite sols are observed. One effect is qualitatively identical to the effect observed in bentonite sols, but nearly two orders of magnitude larger. The other effect is larger yet, and varies approximately with the rms value of the applied field. Faraday rotation was not observed in the experiment."
"The approximation technique, presented in previous letters, is extended. The approximation polynomial is, again, of the form Pn(s) = M(s) + kN(s). The method of optimization of constant k is considered, and it is shown that an equal percentage ripple approximation can be achieved by a very simple procedure. The technique is particularly useful when a time delay network consists of a number of sections in tandem."
"The \"pseudo-series\" combination of two n-port networks is defined. A necessary and sufficient condition is given for the combined n-port network to have an open-circuit impedance matrix equal to the sum of the corresponding matrices of the component networks."
"Two notices: (1) Notice of No Adjustment in Phases of Seconds Pulses from NBS Radio Station WWVB and No Adjustment in Phases of Time Pulses from NBS Radio Stations WWV and WWVH on June 1, 1968; (2) Monthly Fractional Frequency and Time Offsets and Deviations for NBS Radio Stations WWV, WWVH, WWVL, and WWVB."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"Provides an overview of the technical articles and features presented in this issue."
"Integrated-circuit memories using bipolar transistor technology are compared with memories based on various forms of the insulated-gate field-effect transistor (IGFET). A combination of p-channel IGFET memory cells with bipolar transistor access circuits appears to offer a desirable combination of characteristics. Memory organization, chip design, packaging, and interconnection alternatives are considered. Beam-lead sealed-junction technology has significant advantages over other packaging and interconnection technologies in the realization of semiconductor memory. Some of the problems expected in the design of a million-bit computer memory are examined with attention to power dissipation, interconnections, reliability, maintainability, and cost. Finally, the potential characteristics of a million-bit semiconductor memory based on today's technology are compared with the characteristics of ferrite core, planar film, and cylindrical film magnetic memories. The conclusion drawn from this exploratory study is that semiconductor memory has attractive potential for both small- and large-capacity memory applications."
"A new electrooptic effect in certain classes of nematic liquid crystals is presented. The effect has been termed \"dynamic scattering\" because scattering centers are produced in the transparent, anisotropic medium due to the disruptive effects of ions in transit. The ions can be produced by field assisted dissociation of neutral molecules and/or Schottky emission processes. The rise times of 1 to 5 ms and decay times of less than 30 ms, together with dc operating voltages in the 10 to 100 V range, make dynamic scattering seem attractive for such applications as alphanumeric indicators, and do not preclude its use in line-at-a-time matrix addressed, real-time displays. Reflective contrast ratios of better than 15 to 1 with efficiencies of 45 percent of the standard white have been demonstrated."
"The sheath proximity loss of single-conductor cables is calculated by Miller's equation [1]. However, this equation involves a correction term which causes considerable error in calculated values for large-size, aluminum-sheathed cables. Taking the self-inductance of eddy current into account, the author has derived the exact equation. Miller's equation is no longer valid, especially for large-size, aluminum-sheathed cables."
"A complete network description for an antenna is realized via a modal decomposition of the electromagnetic fields surrounding the structure. The representation contains the transmitting, receiving, and radar scattering properties of the antenna. A scattering formulation permits the antenna's power gain, directivity, effective area, and radar cross section to be expressed as a functional on the elements of its scattering matrix. For an array of antennas, the excitations which optimize its power gain and the loading network which maximizes its radar cross section are determined. The philosophic approach of circuit theory is employed for describing physical antennas. A set of canonical antenna elements having simple properties is first defined; in addition, an actual physical structure is represented as an array of canonical elements. The method is applied to the case of a Yagi-Uda array. The possibility of loading the array with active impedances is investigated."
"In the past, ultrasonic delay lines in digital storage applications tended to be designed for a maximum storage capacity compatible with losses in the delay medium in order to minimize the cost of access circuitry. This approach yielded capacities upward of 20 000 bits per delay line but necessitated complicated arrangements to fold up the relatively long delay path in an acceptable space. It also required delay materials with a low ultrasonic propagation loss and accurate temperature stabilization, and resulted in comparatively long average access times to a given bit of information in the store. The emergence of inexpensive access and retiming circuits, however, suggests that delay line stores may be made at lower expense by subdividing them into modules of smaller capacity, and regenerating and retiming the bit stream it each module. This approach leads to design considerations different from the previous approaches and causes requirements of mechanical precision and temperature stability to be lowered. The design procedure described predicts that with presently available materials delay lines can be built which store about 1000 bits at bit rates in excess of 100 MHz, with insertion losses at band center of less than 20 dB and spurious signal suppression of at least 20 dB. Such lines have a storage density of more than 105bits per inch3."
"This paper describes an experiment designed to transfer accurate time between two widely separated clocks using a VHF satellite transponder. The satellite used was the NASA Applications Technology Satellite, ATS-1. The experiment used atomic oscillators to maintain accurate time at each station, and the synchronization was accomplished by measuring the round-trip delay times between the stations. The goal of the experiment was to evaluate a VHF system, because of the low-cost ground equipment involved, in contrast to microwave systems. The paper discusses the results and the various factors that contributed to the timing errors."
"Coupled-mode analysis provides a conceptually simple technique for the analysis of nonuniform transmission lines and nonuniform coupled systems. The variable series and shunt elements couple backward and forward traveling waves. Reflection coefficients are derived for an exponential and linear taper by this technique."
"The electron beam-plasma interaction and the plasma multiplier have been investigated during the last decade in the hope that one or the other might have some application at millimeter wavelengths. So far the expectations for these devices have not been realized because of many unresolved engineering problems. Major difficulties are described here, and an attempt is made to evaluate the potential of both devices."
"Background limited operation of copper-doped germanium detectors has been obtained for a background as low as 10-11watts (5 × 103photons/second) in the 8-12 µ region. The temperature dependence of the observed responsivity for detectors, each containing the same copper concentration but having different donor concentration does not agree with any of the usual theories involving the free hole velocity, mobility, or capture cross section."
"An analysis is presented of a new negative resistance that appears when the drift velocity of carriers exceeds the thermal velocity in the ordinary element semiconductor bulk. The theory may offer one explanation for a new current instability recently discovered [1]."
"With an injection signal of about -15 dB, Gunn oscillators generated microwave pulses at 11 GHz with a transient time of around 1 ns and an on-off ratio of more than 25 dB. Delay time and rise time of the modulated signal varied according to the injection level."
"Successful operation of a series-parallel array of varactor diodes used as a high-power, microwave source is reported. This power combiner used twelve varactor diodes in a flowing liquid-dielectric bath and delivered 100 watts CW at 57-percent efficiency when operating as a doubler from 0.5 to 1.0 GHz."
"The experimental testing of a new type of imaging technique called contour imaging is described. It employs a single-pulse laser transmitter and a repetitively gated receiver, and can be used to create instant contour maps, to enhance image contrast, and to detect motion within a scene. The contour images may be viewed directly or recorded."
"A general decomposition scheme is described which allows the realization of a given synchronous sequential machine as an interconnection of identical two-state modules. The bound on the fan-in and fan-out of each module is independent of the number of states in the given machine."
"The partial derivatives of Marcum's Q function Q(a,b), with respect to a and b, are required for many communication system optimization problems. A simple derivation of the derivatives is given."
"A new method is described for produchrg large stress levels in semiconductor devices. The relative change in breakdown voltage induced by uniaxial stress σ was found to be (ΔV/VB)/σ≃-0.48 × 10-12, where stress is given in dynes/cm2. Experimental results are compared with the energy band model for the piezojunction effect."
"An avalanche photodetector useful at both the 0.9 and 1.06 micron wavelengths is described. The detector performance is characterized to show its usefulness at elevated temperatures."
"Two protective devices for MOS integrated circuits have been extensively tested and proved feasible. They also perform more reliably than conventional Zener diodes. One of them has been used in the fabrication of a dual 25-bit MOS and MNOS integrated shift register and performed reliably."
"An apparent violation of the second law of thermodynamics, involving a dc motor, was recently described (ibid., vol 54, pp. l200-1201, September 1966). Here we present a new paradox, involving a repulsion motor, rather than a dc motor. There solution of this new paradox will not bea s simple, because a nonzero torque is predicted even though the principle of equipartition is satisfied."
"An off-axis optical cavity has been successfully used as a transversal filter in the frequency domain. With a tap spacing of ∼40 nanoseconds, a square wave frequency response has provided alternating pass and rejection bands ∼12.5 MHz wide."
"A stable cavity fabricated from fused silica is described in which the average stability is on the order of 2.2 parts it 108/°C from 25° to 63°C."
"Continuous-wave relaxation oscillations have been observed in silicon p-n-n+diodes when driven into avalanche. The waveforms of the oscillations, varying from several KHz to over 800 MHz, are described."
"It has been noted in the literature that the power-energy relation for electromagnetic fields may be written in the form of a flow continuity equation, and thereby a velocity of electromagnetic energy flow may be defined. The force-momentum field relation may be used in the same way to define a velocity of momentum flow, and it is shown that the flow velocity for both momentum and energy is the group velocity."
"The vibrational mode of the flexural vibration excited parametrically by the extensional mode of vibration has been observed by means of the holographic technique. It is shown that the amplitude distribution of the vibration displacement of the parametrically excited mode is identical with that of the directly excited mode."
"The problem of excitation of a semiconductor panel over a limited region of its surface is considered. The two-dimensional diffusion equation is solved for the general case and then applied to a simplified example."
"A new mode of operation of Gunn devices is reported. The theoretical model is described from which the efficiency and negative RF conductance are calculated. Theoretical results show that this \"hybrid mode\" has broad-band characteristics and insensitivity to load. Good agreement between theory and experiment indicates the existence of this mode."
"Dynamic current-voltage characteristics of a bulk n-InSb showed instability in its avalanching region under a nearly parallel strong magnetic field, and the microwave emission from it was also observed under this instability condition. Hole plasma sound wave instabilities excited in the bulk n-InSb under a magnetic field will give rise to the microwave emission and S-type differential negative resistance in the I-V characteristics."
"A new VOR antenna system is proposed. It uses one or more large parasitic loops in conjunction with an Alford loop above a circular ground plane. Such a system produces excellent far field gradient characteristics below the horizon. This should improve considerably the errors in the present VOR bearing indications."
"Data obtained at 1107 MHz demonstrate that the ferrimagnetic resonance field of polycrystalline nickel aluminum ferrite depends upon the surface finish of the disk samples used in the measurement. Verification of this surface dependence at 3140 MHz is also reported."
"The transfer function of three-terminal RC null networks is examined, with the object of achieving as high a selectivity as possible. It is shown that a theoretical maximum exists, which can only be approached in the actual realization."
"Tunnel diodes can be simulated it the NET-1 digital computer program for circuit analysis by use of a combination of positive and negative resistors, three diodes, and a voltage source. Good approximations of dc and ac characteristics can be obtained as demonstrated with an example of a high-speed switching circuit."
"The general claim that all constant amplitude FM waves cannot be bandlimited is shown to be false."
"A simple formula for calculating the output S/N of an FM signal demodulated by an FM discriminator is obtained. This formula can be applied to high-modulation-index cases such as frequency feedback systems. It is shown that the authors' formula should be used rather than that of the click theory."
"A single axial and transverse mode ruby laser was used to make a front-lighted hologram of a human subject. The experimental setup and a technique to greatly reduce eye hazard are discussed."
"A new method is described for depositing thin films with prescribed thicknesses of 100 Å or less. The method is based on the use of a geometrical scale factor and is an extension of the conventional weighing method."
"A composite negative-mobility bulk semiconductor diode (n-GaAs), consisting of several active and passive regions in series, has been tested. The doping times sample length product of each active region of this diode is smaller than a critical value (1012cm-2for n-GaAs) in order to prevent high field domain formation within the device. The diode has no power-impedance limitation and is not subject to filamentary breakdown. RF pulse powers of 9.6 watts at 2.5 GHz and 28 watts at 1.3 GHz have been obtained from these devices consisting of three and four wafers in series."
"In the above letter, Buchanan, Dolan, and Roosild have compared bipolar and field effect transistors based on a lifetime damage constant of 2.4 × 105nsċcm-2. This constant is applicable only at very low injection levels and is, therefore, not appropriate for bipolar transistors; a value of 2 × 106nsċcm-2is applicable to bipolar transistors in normal operating current ranges (injection level ≈1.0). The conclusion that field effect devices are inherently harder by a factor of five to ten is, therefore, not justified. Application of their comparison criteria using the appropriate damage constant leads to the conclusion that junction and field effect transistors are comparably hard."
"A sideband phase error in the Fourier analysis of square-wave FM, found in several well-known textbooks, is corrected."
"Nonlinear characteristics impose limitations on the application of a filter based on the Tonks-Dattner resonances."
"A technique is presented by means of which all cutsets of a graph can be obtained. From the list of all possible segregations of the vertices of the graph into two complementary sets, those which do not yield cutsets are deleted. The method is suitable for computerization."
"By a suitable choice of model parameters and port variables, it is possible to convert the one-π lumped model of transistors to a form which consists of parameters that are all measurable. The algebraic manipulation is much simplified when applied to circuit problems, and an intuitive understanding of the device action is still possible."
"A pyroelectric detector operating at room temperature and capable of resolving pulses of less than 1 µs duration from a CO2laser is described."
"Junction capacitance measured at two reverse voltages is sufficient to calculate the parasitic and the net junction capacitances of a transistor or diode. Use of a nomograph further simplifies the calculation."
"The two-segment (linear-parabolic) approximation of the tunnel diode characteristics is proposed for computer-aided circuit analysis. The determination of model parameters needs only specification sheet information."
"The optimization of PCM systems which use natural binary codes is considered. The resulting performance is compared with that obtainable when codes of unconstrained block length are used. Specific results are presented for television signals and Gaussian signals."
"A first-order direct method for solving unconstrained optimal control problems is presented in which the iterative control sequence, represented by orthonormal expansions in function space, is generated using an optimization technique originally developed by Davidon. The method is stable and has quadratic convergence properties."
"An H-guide with an artificial dielectric is considered. Field components are calculated by field matching. Attenuation is found and evaluated numerically at 10 GHz; the results are presented."
"An explicit expression for the characteristic functional of the shot-noise process is derived. The moments and correlations of the response can be obtained by taking appropriate functional derivatives."
"This letter derives an alternative formulation of the Einstein relation for degenerate semiconductors. From this formulation a graph is constructed displaying the dependence of the diffusivity-mobility ratio against carrier concentration valid for any temperature and for any material whose density of quantum states varies, to a reasonable approximation, as the square root of energy."
"The matrix equation AXD - G = 0, where A, D, and G are real, analytic matrix functions of the complex variable s, arises in compensator specification for a multivariable control system. The generalized inverses of A and D may be used to solve for X if the equation has a solution, or to determine that X which minimizes AXD - G if the equation has no solution. Intermediate calculations in the first case involve s, a variable which does not appear in the solution. A nonrealizable compensator is the result in the second case. These undesirable features do not occur if a semi-inverse, other than the generalized inverse, is used. One such semi-inverse is presented."
"After an initial breakdown, Al/CdSe(or CdTe)/Au samples show bistable conductivity and a cyclic switching between the high and low conductivity states takes place continuously under applied cyclic voltage. The effect disappears on illumination."
"Hartwell recently discussed ferromagnetic film spin wave pinning referenced to a surface anomaly model. This model does predict the proper spectrum in some cases, particularly those where the substrate is scratched deliberately or the films are oxidized. For some films it is believed that a better model involves a gradient in the saturation magnetization caused by a compositional change of the alloy through the film thickness, previously described by Penn and West."
"Two notices: Notice of No Adjustments in Phases of Seconds Pulses from NBS Radio Station WWVB and No Adjustment in Phases of Time Pulses from NBS Radio Stations WWV and WWVH 011 July 1, 1968; (2) Monthly Fractional Frequency and Time Offsets and Deviations for NBS Radio Stations WWV, WWVH, WWVL, and WWVB."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"Provides an overview of the technical articles and features presented in this issue."
"An approach to some nonlinear filtering problems through a generalized notion of superposition has proven useful. In this paper this approach is investigated for the nonlinear filtering of signals which can be expressed as products or as convolutions of components. The applications of this approach in audio dynamic range compression and expansion, image enhancement with applications to bandwidth reduction, echo removal, and speech waveform processing are presented."
"A prototype of a postal code number reader capable of recognizing handwritten arabic numerals has been developed and tested successfully. Recognition of handwritten arabic numerals requires sufficient system flexibility to cope with both unlimited variations in character shape and a large number of writing instruments. This flexibility has been achieved by combining the use of a stored recognition table and a hardware microprogram. The recognition logic obtained by computer simulation is immediately stored in the core memory as a table. The numerals are recognized by extracting a sequence of the geometrical features in horizontal zones of the character after normalization of the height of the character and the width of the strokes. The use of sequential recognition logic helps reduce the capacity of core memory required to obtain the desired high rate of recognition. The correct recognition rate of a single digit for a large sample of letters averaged 95 percent. For a three-digit sorting with 13 stackers the sorter incorrectly recognized approximately 0.1 percent, a rate of error consistent with manual sorting."
"A review of the recent developments in the field of random fluctuations of an electromagnetic wave propagated over a line-of-sight path is presented. The major interest is in the optical to millimeter wavelength range where fluctuations in amplitude, phase, and angle-of-arrival are important system considerations. It is assumed that the fluctuations are the result of variations in the refractive index caused by turbulence in the atmosphere. The review concentrates on the major approximations involved in the theoretical developments, and in particular, attempts to put in perspective the arguments over Rytov's method. The paper includes a number of previously untranslated results from the Russian literature, and some previously unpublished results of the author's. A brief assessment of new theoretical approaches and a discussion of some extremely important experimental work are given."
"The ideal design objective is an optimally adaptive control which yields an optimal performance index for all values of unknown plant parameters within a given domain. An optimally sensitive (neighboring optimum) control matches the optimally adaptive control to first order in the variations of the unknown plant parameters from a given nominal set of values, In this paper an analytical synthesis procedure for feedback controllers generating the optimally sensitive control is developed. The optimal sensitivity equations are derived for obtaining opthmal sensitivity functions which are the principal quantities involved in the synthesis. A numerical example is included."
"The basic problem of synthesizing a nonlinear resistor, inductor, or capacitor with a prescribed i-v, φ-i, or q-v curve is solved by introducing three new linear two-port network elements, namely the mutator, the reflector, and the scalor. The mutator has the property that a nonlinear resistor is transformed into a nonlinear inductor, or a nonlinear capacitor, upon connecting this resistor across port two of an appropriate mutator. The reflector has the property that a given i-v, φ-i, or q-v curve can be reflected about an arbitrary straight line through the origin. The scalor is characterized by the property that any i-v, φ-i, or q-v curve can be compressed or expanded along a horizontal direction, or along a vertical direction. Using these new elements as building blocks, it is shown that any prescribed single-valued (which need not be monotonic) i-v, φ-i, or q-v curve can be synthesized. Active circuit realizations for each of these new elements are given. Laboratory models of mutators, reflectors, and scalors have been built using discrete components. Oscilloscope tracings of typical mutated, reflected, and scaled i-v, φ-i, and q-v curves are given. The experimental results are in good agreement with theory at relatively low operating frequencies. The practical problems that remain to be solved are the stability and frequency limitation of the present circuits."
"The signal reflected from a sech2electron-density profile and bandpass filtered was calculated for an incident plane wave with an impulsive time variation. For \"wide\" bandwidths, the envelope of the filter output decreases in duration with decreasing bandwidth, with some increase in peak amplitude For \"narrow\" bandwidths, the envelope of the filter output decreases in peak amplitude and increases in duration with decreasing bandwidth; the envelope also oscillates about its mean value after the peak. The critical bandwidth, at which the filter output changes from the \"wide-\" to the \"narrow-\" band behavior, was found to be associated with a characteristic pattern of the saddle points of the Fourier-transform integrand."
"A method is presented for solving state variable equations by obtaining frequency-domain solutious and then taking inverse transforms. This method permits time steps larger by orders of magnitude than is possible by conventional methods, resulting in greater numerical efficiency for networks having a wide range of time constants."
"A novel approach for calculating transmission line response to independent distributed sources is introduced, and the results tabulated."
"The multiterminal gyrator is a multiterminal generalization of the familiar three-terminal device. Whereas the simple gyrator can replace a single inductor, the multigyrator can simulate whole inductive networks; mutual inductors and transformers are not excluded."
"The approximation technique presented in previous letters is extended to linear-slope delay functions having positive slope."
"In this letter the capacity of asynchronous code-division multiplexing systems with unquantized output is considered. The minimax capacity is evaluated and the reliability function is briefly discussed."
"Mirostrip is found to exhibit lower loss than balanced strip-line of a comparable physical structure. This property is traced to conduction loss theoretically and is confirmed experimentally."
"In a classic paper [1], Rice derives (among other things) the probability density function of the output of a linear envelope detector. For digital processing, the envelope detector can be replaced with a device that samples the noisy signal at the zeros of its derivative. The probability density of the output of this device is derived."
"It is often desired or required to code asynchronous sequential switching circuits such that noncritical races occur. The effect of these races on hazard-free circuit operation is investigated. It is shown that the removal of single-input-change static hazards it the networks realiziag the next-state functions is not, in general, sufficient to prevent static hazards if a noncritical race is present. A necessary and sufficient condition for hazard-free realization of a flow table containing noncritical races is given, and it is shown that a hazard-free realization is always possible."
"A very wide frequency tuning (5.8 to 13.0 GHz) of the Gunn effect oscillator is described, in which the properties of the ferrimagnetic resonator sphere are used as a tuning element. The circuit employed to accomplish this tuning, the power profile, and the tuning curve are also presented."
"A general technique is presented for combining the frequency responses of two bandpass microwave filters by the use of two circulators. Extension of the technique enables the combination of any number of filter responses. Experimental results and applications employing ferrimagnetic resonators are discussed."
"The outline of the design of a microwave repeater for 2700- channel transmission is described. The prototype repeaters showed adequate characteristics as expected, and the possibility of 2700-channel transmission has been assured."
"Rules for graphically plotting fields in a class of two-dimensional inhomogeneous conductors are shown which are an extension of the rules for field plotting in homogeneous conductors by the method of curvilinear squares. A graphical solution for a particular example is illustrated."
"A new circuit concept applicable to a basic building block in a variety of instrumentation and communication systems is introduced. The new concept is called current conveying and its implementation a current conveyor."
"A distributed transistor model including linear dc crowding is analyzed. An expression for the short-circuit input impedance is derived for the cases of \"very small\" crowding and \"large\" crowding. It is found that in both cases the impedance is approximately equal to that of a transistor with no dc crowding and a shorter active base region. The effective length of the base region depends on the degree of crowding."
"A simplified procedure is described for finding the state equations of an n-port network from its admittance description. The restrictions on this procedure are that the network be linear, but perhaps time-varying, and made up of a finite number of lumped elements in a configuration such that an admittance description exists for the nondynamical portions of the network."
"Using a simple approximate formula [1] which can be derived from an exact Solution obtained by the authors [2], it can be shown that the output SNR of an FMFB (frequency modulation feedback) system is almost equivalent to that of the conventional system having the same IF filter bandwidth and modulation index as the FMFB system."
"Results of measurements of the microwave radiation resistance and associated reactance for YIG delay lines, operating in the magnetostatic and magnetoelastic regimes, are given. These are applied in the design of a matching circuit for a one port magnetoelastic delay line, which exhibited experimentally a minimum insertion loss of 6 dB at 1.45 GHz."
"Cold-welding indium layers deposited on metal films constitutes a bonding method for the transducers of ultrasonic delay lines suitable for operation at bit rates beyond 100 MHz. This method permits the use of transducer materials with high coupling factor, resulting in delay lines with comparatively low insertion loss."
"Fabrication of bonded, single-crystal transducers to operate in fundamental thickness-shear and thickness-longitudinal modes at frequencies around 300 MHz is reported. The experimental results show that these transducers have performance that is superior in a number of ways to competitive thin-film piezoelectric transducers."
"It is shown that positive impedance converter-type networks may be used to realize a driving-point impedance that is ideally a frequency dependent negative resistor. This concept may be used to realize new types of inductorless selective networks. A simple resonant circuit application is discussed."
"Sufficient conditions for a real nonsymmetric matrix either to have all real eigenvalues or to be totally devoid of any real eigenvalue are asserted. The sufficient conditions stated can be easily and quickly implemented, and do not require adoption of any numerical technique."
"An experimental proof is given of the validity of the \"slowly varying condition\" for treating the perturbation of an oscillating nonlinear filtered circuit."
"A new relation is derived between the 2kth and zeroth and the (2k + 1)th and first Fourier coefficients of a power-law device under sinusoidal excitation."
"The problem of determining the interrelationships among the chain parameters of a nonuniform transmission line (NUTL) is reformulated using a method more direct and intelligible than that previously used, and, in addition, it is shown that all the chain parameters of a NUTL can be expressed in very simple forms in terms of the basic set of solutions of any one of the differential equations governing them."
"A theoretical description for the asymmetrical signal suppression in frequency-selective parametric limiters (FSL's) is developed. The results are valuable for evaluation of device performance and may serve as guides for the design of improved FSL's."
"It is shown how a special microwave resonator, particularly suited to an association with an active semiconductor element, can be easily represented by a lumped equivalent circuit."
"Given a nonlinear device described by a power series and having an input consisting of a sum of any number of cosine waves, a formula is derived which enables one to express the amplitude of any chosen intermodulation product in the output as a function of the power series coefficients and the amplitudes of the input frequency components."
"A versatile, low-power-drain pulse generator that will yield pulses as narrow as 50 nanoseconds is described. The circuit may be adapted for use as a delay circuit, gated oscillator, frequency limiter, and pulse leading and trailing edge discriminator."
"A field theoretic characterization of modular systems is proposed. This characterization is facilitated by an analogy between the interactions of the modules and certain functions defined over an equivalent electric field. It is shown that a basic class of problems concerning modular system theory, viz, design optimization, can be solved conveniently through the analogous characterizations."
"A generalization of the direct method of Lyapunov is employed to determine the stability of neuristor waveforms. The validity of the linear approximation for distributed systems is discussed. It is shown that a neuristor waveform on a RC ± G transmission line is stable if its derivative represents the minimum eigenvalue solution of the linearized perturbation equation."
"Finite difference equations are derived for solving Laplace's equation it a mulitidielectric region. The equations have been programmed for the digital computer and provide a final output consistitg of a plot of the boundaries and equipotentials."
"Superconducting thin-film tunneling junctions composed of Ta-Ta2O5-Nb and Nb-Nb2O5-V layers are proposed for application as negative resistance devices. The theoretical I-V curves of these junctions are presented, and the operating temperatures for optimum negative resistance characteristics are predicted to be about 4.4°K and 5.1°K."
"In contrast to results pertinent to systems governed by second-order linear differential equations with periodic coefficients, unstable oscillations at a frequency which is less than one-half the element variation frequency can occur in systems governed by third- and higher-order differential equations with periodic coefficients. This result is used to explain certain experimental observations in circuit and control theory."
"A method for calculating transition matrices for linear time-invariant systems is presented which is much faster than the direct series approach and which, because of the reduced computational requirement, provides better accuracy."
"A microwave phase quadrature technique has been newly applied in line-of-sight tropospheric propagation to determine directly the statistics of the incoherent scattered field. The results suggest using the wave-front sphericity sensitivity of the phase quadrature components to explore the eddy size wavenumber spectrum."
"The synthesis of an optimally sensitive controller is extended to the noisy case. A Kalman filter is used to estimate the uncertain parameter variations which are then used in the controller."
"Insulated-gate field-effect transistors using Schottky barrier contacts for the source and drain have been studied. At room temperature, the device characteristics are Comparable to conventional IGFET's with similar electrode geometry. At lower temperatures, the current transport is by tunneling of carriers from the metal across the Schottky barrier to the semiconductor inversion layer."
"A hologram is constructed using a microwave (9610 MHz) by a two-beam interference method developed by Leith and Upatnieks for optical holography. The optical reconstruction of original images is done using laser light (6328 Å) and magnified reconstructed images are observed."
"When X-cut lithium tantalate plates are oscillating at overtones of the strongly excited thickness quasi-shear mode, the resonant frequencies are found to have frequency-temperature coefficients of about -40 ppm/°C. Such frequency-temperature coefficient limit the usefulness of X-cut lithium tantalate in wide-band filter applications."
"The relation of the so-called Poisson transform to 1) the expansion of a function in a series of higher order impulse distribution functions and 2) the expansion of a function in a series of Laguerre polynomials is shown here."
"Sharp impulse current from a high-voltage impulse generator has been measured by a laser current transformer based on the Faraday rotation of a laser beam. The impulse waveform measured by the laser agreed well with the waveform measured by a conventional method using a noninductive resistor."
"The response time delay on a photocathode at different surface points was measured by phase measurements of the detected beat frequencies. A figure of equidelay lines is shown for one sample."
"Notice of Adjudment in Phase of seconds Pulses from Radio Station WWVB and No Adjustment m Phases of Time Pulses from Radio Stations WWV and WWVH On August 1, 1968."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"Provides an overview of the technical articles and features presented in this issue."
"An optimization theory is developed which predicts the variation of thermodynamic properties, duct shape, and electrical loading along an MHD generator for minimum duct length, duct surface area, or duct volume. The model is based on the one-dimensional flow equations including heat transfer and friction, and the analysis is developed for a fluid with arbitrary dependence of density, enthalpy, electrical conductivity, and mobility on temperature and pressure. Four types of electrical loading of the generator are considered: the segmented-electrode Faraday generators; and the cross-connected generator, first with constant cross-connection angle and multiple load connections; then with a single load; and finally with constant cross-connection angle and with single load. This theory is then applied to the design of an open-cycle MHD generator for a 2000-MW power plant. Numerical results for these four different types of generator are calculated with a computer program and compared, with particular emphasis on the loading parameter variation. It is concluded that the additional constraints of constant cross-connection angle and single load do not significantly affect the overall generator performance, although they do modify the parameter variation along the duct."
"This paper reviews, in some detail, the general theory of MHD induction generators. Several different approaches to the analysis of constant-velocity generators are summarized and compared, and a new mathematical model for a variable-velocity generator is presented, including digital computer solutions for the theoretical performance. The velocity distribution and boundary layer losses are considered separately, and the problem of end effect is discussed qualitatively. Recent experimental results for both separately excited and self-excited MHD induction generators are summarized, and the future of MHD induction generators is discussed briefly."
"The use of the disk generator as a practical device for power generation is discussed and compared to a linear device in terms of maximum allowable electric fields, magnetic field utilization, and surface-to-volume ratio. The swirl induced by the azimuthal force acting on the radial current is found to be of prime importance for the generator's performance. For certain values of the inlet swirl opposing the azimuthal Lorentz force, the output current becomes a conductive current as in a Faraday generator, and this results in increased efficiency for given Hall coefficients and loading. Examples ad design concepts are discussed."
"The constant-velocity Hall-type MHD generator with segmented transverse electrode is analyzed numerically to determine the steady-state operating characteristics and the stability with respect to axially propagating magnetoacoustic waves under a constant-current constraint. The electrical conductivity and Hall parameter are represented as functions of temperature and pressure. The variations of steady-state parameters are displayed graphically and terminal characteristics are presented. Phase velocity and amplitude data for the magnetoacoustic waves are presented in terms of steady-state parameters under a short wavelength approximation. Three wave modes are predicted, two which damp and one which grows. For initially subsonic conditions, the two damped waves propagate downstream and the amplified one propagates upstream, which may cause choking. For initially supersonic flow the three waves all travel downstream."
"A traveling-wave, MHD induction generator with varying fluid velocity between inlet and exit can have the same internal electrical efficiency as a rotating induction generator. The fraction of electric retarding work converted to electric output at each station in the flow channel is (1 + s)-1, where s is the local slip (U - Us)/Us, between the velocity of the fluid U and the velocity of the zero crossing of the magnetic field wave Us. To produce the rotating-machine efficiency, the product of magnetic field amplitude, wave velocity, and flow channel width is held constant from inlet to exit. The local slip can be freely chosen for maximum electric output from the fluid in the presence of friction, and the inlet magnetic field can be selected for maximum output after winding and end losses. An efficiency of 0.63 is found possible with a 325-kW lithium generator."
"The kinetic theory of partially ionized plasmas is applied to the calculation of transport properties for plasma conditions representative of MHD generators. Emphasis is placed on the accuracy of approximate formulas in comparision with the exact values. The exact values are obtained by means of spherical-harmonic expansions of the electron and heavy-particle Boltzmann equations, with the use of simplifications associated with the small electron mass. Consideration is given to both electron and heavy-particle properties in the presence of a magnetic field, including electrical and thermal conductivity, thermal diffusion and viscosity coefficients and allowing for differences between the electron and heavy-particle temperatures. In all cases it is found that accurate results can be obtained by simpler means than the classical Chapman-Enskog calculation, but that various approximate formulas differ significantly in their accuracy. Several new formulas are proposed. The influence on these results of differing cross sections is discussed, as are the effects of nonelastic collisions in the electron energy equation and the difference between quasi-scalar properties in a magnetic field and those that apply in the absence of or in the direction parallel to a magnetic field. Corrections to the calculations when the plasma parameter ln Λ is not large are considered."
"The plasma in an MHD generator is mainly defined by its electron density ne, its electrical conductivity σ, the temperatures of the gas and the electrons T0and Te, its velocity V, and the value of the Hall coefficient ωτ. In recent years, various diagnostic methods have been developed in order to determine and clarify the behavior of such generators, which are described without any claim to completeness it this paper."
"Experiments have been performed it the International Research and Devlopment (IRD) Mk II helium-cesium MPD facility with simultaneously applied electric and magnetic fields. By increasing the total current density in the plasma from 2 mA/cm2to 440 mA/cm2the plasma impedance decreased by a factor of 100 owing to a nonequilibrium increase of the electron temperature and number density. Nonideal behavior in the form of a much reduced Hall potential was always present and is attributed mainly to nonuniformities in the plasma conductivity, probably as a result of inadequate mixing of the seed material with the buffer gas. Other mechanisms known to contribute to the lowering of the generator performance include wall and plasma-to-ground leakage and finite segmentation. Further evidence for the large nonequilibrium decrease of plasma resistance with current was the amplification and harmonic generation of small voltage fluctuations."
"The feasibility of measuring the spatial distribution of the electrical conductivity in plasmas by means of an immersed plasma probe has been examined. By solving the Maxwell-Heimholtz equations for the case of a coil inside a cylinder immersed in an electrically conducting medium, the change in coil impedance due to the presence of the medium is predicted. The exact solution is numerical but for certain limiting cases analytical and empirical design formulas are obtained. A bridge and phase-sensitive demodulator allows separation of the resistive and reactive signal components; experiments with electrolytes and with shock-tube plasmas show that the theoretical predictions are borne out in practice to a good degree of accuracy, thereby providing an absolute method for which no known electrical conductivity standards are required. The plasma cooling effect of the probe is considered and an estimate for corrections is suggested."
"When plasmas are immersed in static magnetic fields a number of plasma instabilities are likely to develop. In turns out that in many cases the type of instability which occurs is in some way related to the method used to generate the plasma. One of the easiest and most common ways of generating a plasma is to pass a radio-frequency current through it. On the other hand, very little is known about the behavior of such RF-generated plasmas when immersed it static magnetic fields. In this paper experiments dealing with the behavior of RF magnetoplasmas are reviewed. It is observed in many different RF experiments that once the static magnetic field exceeds a critical value, the rate at which plasma is transported across the magnetic field is enhanced. This phenomenon, which is known as anomalous diffusion, is accompanied by an onset of fluctuations it plasma density and potential. The characteristics of the experimental onset data are reviewed and compared with the onset conditions of a number of particularly applicable theories. On the basis of this comparison, it is concluded that the ion-acoustic instability comes closest to explaining the experimental behavior of high-frequency discharges in static magnetic fields."
"Experiments were performed in a combustion-driven MHD generator to determine the effects of electrode temperature and boundary-layer temperature on its performance. The generator was a single electrode pair guarded to avoid end effects by two electrode pairs both upstream and downstream. However, end effects were found to be small, so the tests can be interpreted in terms of a five-electrode-pair generator. The electrodes were held at three temperature levels--775°, 1475°, and 1685°K--by controlling individual cooling circuits. Two electrode boundary-layer temperature profiles were investigated: one resulting from a hot (2400°K) upstream wall, and the other resulting from a cold (750°K) water-cooled plate that replaced the normal upstream electrode wall. Probes were installed in the insulator side wall between the center pair of electrodes to measure the voltage profile in the gas. Visual and photographic observations of the electrodes were made. It was found that the generator with hot electrodes downstream of the hot walls produced about seven times the power of the generator with cold dectrodes downstream of cold walls. Electrode voltage drops, obtained from the side wall probe data, were found to vary with load current, electrode temperature, and upstream wall temperature. Cathode voltage drops were higher than anode voltage drops, but the difference decreased with increasing electrode temperature and upstream wall temperature. An analytical model was postulated to interpret the data. The ohmic resistance of the boundary layer was calculated by integrating an equilibrium conductivity profile through the boundary layer to a point one Debye length from the electrode surface. The calculated values agree with resistance of the anode boundary layer obtained from probe data. The difference between resistances of cathode and anode boundary layers was attributed to surface and/or sheath effects at the cathode."
"The current leakages through the channel walls, ground-loop paths, and insulator-wall boundary layers are examined, and simplified analytical models are developed for nonequilibrium Faraday MHD generators. The results indicate that high insulator wall resistance and high insulator boundary-layer resistance are considerably more important for supersonic generators employing nonequilibrium ionization than for those employing equilibrium or frozen ionization. The high electrical resistance for these current leakage paths is required to keep the attainable nonequilibrium electron density high and the electron-density relaxation length short. The analytical models should prove useful to experimentalists, both as a guide in designing MHD generator test sections and in the analysis and interpretation of experimental results. In particular, the models can be used to estimate the minimum acceptable channel dimensions, wall resistances, wall temperatures, and pre-ionizer performance required for good test results."
"Electrode processes strongly influence the performance and durability of an MHD generator. In this paper a theoretical analysis of these processes is made based on a model suggested by experimental work. According to these observations current transfer at the cathode usually occurs by means of small arc spots, while at the anode the discharge covers the electrode. The basic relations resulting from an energy balance within these discharges, Poisson's equation for space charge, and the electrical and thermal boundary conditions are derived in terms of the properties of the ambient gas. The calculation of these properties for MHD duct gases is then described and special attention given to the perturbation of the ionization equilibrium resulting from charge transport within the discharge. Preliminary results of computer programs designed to carry out the calculation for open and closed cycle duct conditions are presented, and it is shown that under certain conditions the discharge part of the calculation can be presented as a unique set of curves, from which the running conditions and erosion can be calculated for any electrode material."
"The purpose of this experimental study was to determine the electrical performance of a linear, segmented electrode, MHD generator. Various noble gases were shock-heated to plasma conditions that allowed MHD generator operation with Hall parameters ωeτeranging from 1 to 20 and ratios of electron to static gas temperatures of 1 to 2.5. For Te/Tg> 1, the discharge structure in the generator was nonuniform. The major results were as follows. 1) By comparing the experiments with an MHD generator theory that included the effect of nonuniform extrathermal ionization, it was found that the Faraday generator operated in the \"normal\" mode, in which the current vector is approximately perpendicular to the axial flow direction, at all values of ωeτe. The electrical performance of the generator at high ωeτewas much better than that predicted for the \"shorted\" mode of operation in which the current vector is inclined in the axial Hall direction. 2) It was found that it was possible to obtain good agreement between the experiments and a simple uniform plasma, segmented electrode theory that included the Lorentz force effects, the electrode voltage losses, and the increased dissipation due to the plasma nonuniformities in the analyses. 3) Because of the relatively coarse electrode segmentation, it could not be established conclusively whether the effect of the electrothermal instabilities or the effect of finite electrode segmentation limited the maximum attainable Hall field."
"An MHD duct with 56 electrode pairs has been tested on a 10-MW thermal test facility of Electricité de France. The cross section of the generator is constant and rectangular, the distance between electrodes facing each other is 13cm, and the length of the electrodes 7 cm. The insulating walk are of the peg wall type, and each electrode is made of nine small zirconia praseodymium oxide bricks brazed in a copper holder. Between two zirconia pieces, a thin plate of platinum +40 percent rhodium is able to collect the current from the hot and conducting parts of the ceramic. All of the 112 electrodes are independent, and many load systems are possible. Measurements were made of 1) the transverse open-circuit voltages, 2) Hall generator operation, and 3) the series-connected generator with connection angle corresponding to Ey/Ex= -0.96 (open- and short-circul operations for the last two). The results obtained show that a one-dimensional analysis has sufficient accuracy to predict the performance of this generator, but it is necessary to take into account the voltage drops at the electrodes which are important despite the fact that the electredes are hot (surface temperature ∼ 2000°C). The main limitation of the duct was due to the inability of the insulators to withstand for a long time the voltages developed. Other interesting data obtained during the experiments are the currents collected at the end of the Hall and series-connected generators. It was possible to determine the percentage of the load current collected by the upper electrodes and the percentage collected by the lower ones."
"Experimental results of a two-terminal-connected 60° diagonal conducting wall (DCW) generator and a Hall generator under identical channel entrance conditions are presented. The governing equations for two-terminal-connected MHD generators were derived under the assumption of homogeneous electrical properties and with corrections including the finite size of electrodes. A comparison of the outlined theory with the experimental results shows that other losses not included in the theory can be represented by a factor reducing the induced EMF of the generator."
"The first series of MPD experiments performed with the closed-cycle facility of the Comitato Nazionale per l'Energia Nucleare (CNEN) are described. The entire facility, a blowdown loop capable of producing a high-purity noble gas, alkali-seeded plasma of 2 MW thermal power, has been thoroughly tested and has performed satisfactorily. The performance of a small-scale MPD generator with quasi-equilibrium plasma is shown to be influenced by ceramic leakage and plasma insulation from ground. Operating at Hall parameters up to three, the open-circuit Faraday field (29 V/cm) remains over 80 percent of its ideal value and the Hall field (28 V/cm) over 50 percent of its theoretical value, it which electrode voltage drop and segmentation effects are taken into account. The deviations of measured values from theoretical ones for both electric fields and conductivity are explained, at least qualitatively, by a simplified analytical model of wall and ground-loop leakages."
"The work reported here is the result of using a special solid fuel developed as a working fluid for MHD generators by Hercules Inc. Conductivity measurements of the combustion products were made using the electrodes of the Hall channel as floating potential probes. The experimentally determined values of the average conductivity for this type of propellant were found to be in the range between 40 and 50 mho/m. Generator experiments were performed with two different types of channels operating as a Hall generator and as a 45° diagonal conducting wall generator. The generator power output was found to be 3 to 4 times higher than that achieved by even higher flow rates using conventional RP1 and gaseous oxygen for the same generator channel and magnetic field conditions. However, the power increase was insignificant for the Hall generator. The generators operated with relatively little effect observed when coatings of aluminum oxide and other chemicals from the fuel covered the interior of the channel."
"The analysis is made for a constant-amplitude traveling magnetic field interacting with a constant-velocity fluid flowing in an annular channel. The expressions for input and output densities, electrical conversion efficiency, and generator phase impedance are given. The machine parameters and effects are included through the use of ac machinery concepts. The results are then compared with those for a generator having a rectangular channel."
"Orthogonal functions are given which can be used in the synthesis of circular arc arrays. These functions were obtained from the optimization of array beam efficiency which is expressed as the ratio of hermitian forms."
"In periodic phased arrays, due to the mutual coupling effect, there is a sharp dip in radiation at a certain scan angle, thus causing the so-called blindness phenomenon. It is shown that by using random (or other aperiodic) arrays, this adverse effect can be almost completely removed."
"Ring-geometry IMPATT diodes have been developed which give 1.15 watts output power at 8.4 to 10 GHz, compared with 0.87 watt obtained from solid-circular-geometry diodes of the same basic design. The improved performance is due to better thermal dissipation in the ring structure."
"A new method for combining oscillators is proposed. Results which show the feasibility of the proposed arrangement are reported."
"Conditions are derived for spurious parametric oscillations to occur in a frequency doubler using a non-overdriven abrupt-junction varactor."
"Power amplification experiments are described which are based on the Gunn effect in gallium arsenide diodes. Coherent signals were obtained over a relatively wide dynamic range with small variation in efficiency. Although unsuitable for very weak signals, the principle appears to offer advantages for transmitters of CW, FM, and pulsed signals."
"A phase shifter of restricted range achieved with NOR gates is suitable for square wave VCO delays around 90°."
"Centripetal acceleration in a current loop results in an azimuthal, inverse-square magnetic field--with no counterpart from differentially separated, opposite magnetic poles. A result, large on the atomic scale of dimensions, is a torque that rotates such moments to be collinear with an applied field, i.e., space quantization."
"The eigenmodes and the forced resonance-modes of dielectric spheres are discussed and compared. The peaks of the radiation resistance of a short dipole at the center of the sphere are very close to the first-order eigenmodes of a free sphere."
"Advantages of the Schottky barrier gate technique are reviewed, and an experimental field-effect transistor constructed from p-type GaSe is discussed. Device characteristics are consistent with calculations based on material parameters and the geometry employed."
"The radiation of a monopole antenna imbedded in a finite volume of plasma can be enhanced if the antenna is operated at a frequency much lower than the plasma frequency and the antenna dimensions are properly chosen. Experimental observations are reported."
"Geometric magnetoresistance at the contacts of a Gunn effect oscillator can partly explain the decrease of the apparent threshold or current oscillations."
"Efficient room temperature injection lasers have been fabricated with AlxGa1-xAs by use of liquid phase epitaxy. Simultaneous lasing at wavelengths separated by more than 1000 Å has been observed at 100°K and below. The wavelengths and their separation may be controlled by process variations."
"A new MOS type of transducer is reported which can be used to measure mechanical pressure or force, temperature, and light in digital form."
"A cylindrical column of plasma without and with a metallic cylinder imbedded in the center is illuminated by a perpendicular and an axial electric field of a plane wave. Different electroacoustic (Tonks-Dattner) resonances are observed for different arrangements and polarizations. The findings of this study indicate 1) the excitation of an electroacoustic wave by a metallic object in a hot plasma when illuminated by an electromagnetic wave, and 2) the significant effect of an electroacoustic wave on the electro-magnetic scattering of a plasma-covered metallic object."
"The orbital parameters and physical characteristics of two radar calibration spheres of 16-inch and 20-inch diameter launched and constructed by the U. S. Naval Research Laboratory are given for the information of workers interested in space radar and optical sensor calibration and atmospheric density studies."
"Fast Fourier transform (FFT) correlation is compared with direct discrete time (DDT) correlation of complex signals in terms of number of operations and memory requirements. The results establish criteria for evaluating which of the two techniques is the more economical in a real time application involving an indefinitely long input data sequence."
"An interesting phenomenon of a plane electromagnetic wave at a fast moving boundary is discussed. When the boundary moves at the speed of light, the field intensity of the reflected wave is equal to that of the incident wave. Such a case may possibly occur in the ionizing process of atmospheric gases by the light of the sun."
"Lyapunov's second method gives a sufficient condition for the asymptotic stability of a dynamic steady-state waveform on a nonlinear active transmission line. The result is consistent with that of an eigenfunction expansion technique."
"Switching circuit experiments carried out with improved post alloy diffused germanium transistors have produced 150 ps insertion delays."
"The use of a calistor, or filament lamp/photoresistor assembly, is shown to be of value in double-beam-in-time optical instruments. The calistor acts as a waveform-insensitive device in a feedback loop using a highly spiky error signal derived from a photomultiplier."
"CW room-temperature operation of Ge Impatt diodes with efficiencies as high as 43 percent in the 400 to 1000 MHz frequency range has been achieved. In this low-frequency, high-efficiency mode, the dc voltage drop across the diode is observed to decrease significantly."
"Pulsed operation of Ge avalanche diodes has produced oscillations with efficiencies exceeding 40 percent at frequencies of 2-3 GHz. Computer simulation of diode and circuit behavior has provided an explanation for the observed results."
"Stimulated thermal reflection Supplies a new kind of laser Q switch."
"A simplified theory shows that when a capacitive electrode is placed adjacent to a Gunn oscillator, the capacitively coupled output current is a replica of the arbitrary shape of the electrode. This method of generating complex waveforms from functional (Gunn-effect) oscillators is demonstrated for one simple case."
"The first measurements of the hydrogen maser's frequency spectrum were recently obtained at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, Pasadena, Calif. Preliminary data indicate a much higher degree of spectral purity than present day atomic frequency standards."
"Improvements in power, efficiency, and FM sensitivity are achieved experimentally with Impatt oscillators which are operated so that the second harmonic lies in the frequency range for classical Read operation. The improvement in performance is accomplished by providing a trapped resonance at the second harmonic, in addition to the required tuning at the output frequency."
"A method of obtaining the swept-frequency complex return-gain response (phase-lock plot) of an injection-locked oscillator over its locking bandwidth has been devised. This procedure has been found useful in the detection and correction of phase errors between eight injection-locked X-band Impatt diode oscillators placed on a symmetric hybrid waveguide combiner."
"The problem of specifying tolerances of electrical components used to construct a desired network to minimize network cost is translated into a linear programming format. This program enables the designer to select the tolerances according to economic factors without violating design objectives. The program employs sensitivity functions and assumes linearity over the range of operation."
"The fundamental question of what waveguide run length can be used to carry a modulated carrier with a given modulation bandwidth down the guide without serious distortion is pragmatically answered by appealing to the known solution for the propagation of a pulsed carrier down the same waveguide. Universal-type curves of usable bandwidth (normalized to the carrier frequency) versus waveguide length (normalized to the free space wavelength at the carrier frequency) with the cutoff-to-carrier frequency as a parameter are given."
"It is demonstrated that by a simple modification in the phase terms of the element excitations the presently available optimization and pattern synthesis techniques can be applied to antenna arrays in a moving medium. Rules to be followed in several different cases are given in the form of theorems."
"Output polarization rotation sensitivity to an axial magnetic field was varied by a factor of 10 through use of a variable angle quartz flat inside the laser resonator. Using a mathematical model for the laser, an expression was found for the sensitivity which compared favorably with experimental results."
"A luminous sensitivity of 900 µA/lm in a GaAs-Cs-O photocathode, and a photothreshold of 1.16 eV in an InGaAs photocathode with Cs-O or Cs-H2O surface layers, are reported."
"Microwave emission from n-InSb at 77°K is investigated. Crystalline orientations of 〈100〉, 〈110〉, and 〈111〉 are used to determine dependence of emission on these orientations. Considerable anistropy of emission is observed as B is rotated in the plane perpendicular to E."
"The restrictions imposed on the solutions of nonuniform transmission lines, the impedance of which can be described by various trigonometric and hyperbolic functions, have been relaxed here to encompass additional possibilities. These possibilities also allow the nonuniform impedance to be represented by the corresponding reciprocals of the trigonometric and hyperbolic functions considered by Holt and Bowron."
"Experimental results with a light beam deflector consisting of four KD*P prisms are presented. Between + 20 kV cm and - 20 kV cm we obtainted 21 minutes deflection with 22 resolved diameter. Deflection up to 30 kHz has been achieved."
"The Klopfenstein impedance taper is widely used in the design of couplers, baluns, mixers, etc. However, its utility is limited by computational complexity. It is suggested that the application of some preliminary numerical analysis can remove all computational difficulties from the computer evaluation of the characteristic impedance."
"A dispersion relation involving all space-time harmonics has been obtained for electromagnetic wave propagation in an infinite dielectric medium whose permittivity is modulated by a high-intensity pump wave containing two harmonics. A solution for the modal amplitudes has been obtained in the form of continued fractions and the convergence criterion has been postulated."
"In the presence of lossy input filters, device noise figure data do not permit complete minimization of the amplifier noise figure FA. However, with L-filters such optimum can be obtained by a simple graphical construction on device noise figure records."
"A discussion is presented on diffractional crosstalk which occurs when several Gaussian beams of approximately the same frequency are transmitted simultaneously through a beam waveguide with oversized lenses. The diffractional crosstalk arises from beam coupling caused by aperture diffraction. Theoretical results indicate that this coupling effect is very small. Simultaneous transmission of 16 Gaussian beams at λ = 0.6328 µ through a guide with lenses of only 5 cm diameter and a lens spacing of 100 m could be performed with a diffractional crosstalk levd below -60 dB in each channel even for distances greater than 1000 km."
"Calculated and measured elastic surface-wave velocities are reported for α-quartz, CdS, GaAs, InSb, Ge, Si, Te, YIG (yttrium iron garnet), LiNbO3, ZnO, and PZT-4 (lead zirconate titanate)."
"Results are given of radiation resistance measurements made on 30 electrode pair interdigital transducers deposited on crystalline quartz for the purpose of generating acoustic Rayleigh waves. On the basis of these data, a delay line has been designed exhibiting the following characteristics: minimum insertion loss 9.8 dB, delay 9.6 µs, -3 dB bandwidth 3.5 MHz, input impedance 50 Ω at center frequency of 96.8 MHz, isolation 90 dB, spurious echo rejection > 20 dB."
"The application of a synthesis technique for one-port immittances to the realization of inductance for restricted-volume applications (e.g., for microcircuits) is reported. Two experiments are described--one using two computer-grade operational amplifiers and the other using two commercial-grade, integrated-circuit amplifiers. A major obstacle to practical application is described."
"A report is given of preliminary work on a process of studying surface roughness of materials. The technique analyzes the statistics of the Fourier components of the surface roughness and uses conventional optical data processing procedures."
"An RF oscillator is described which consists of three MOS transistors and an external LC tank circuit, and is suitable for integrated circuit fabrication. An experimental oscillator operated satisfactorily over the 0.7 to 65 MHz frequency range. Small signal output admittance is also given."
"Utilizing the equivalence principle for nonuniform transmission lines, presented by one of the authors, three nonuniform transmission-line-type pulsers are given which have different L-C distributions and different line lengths but possess identical droop-compensating properties. Realizability conditions for these pulsers are considered and their lengths are compared."
"Two notices: (1) Notice of No Adjustment in Phase of Seconds pulses from NBS Radio Station WWVB and No Adjustment in Phases of Time pulses from NBS Radio Station WWV and WWVH on September 1, l968; (2) Monthly Frequency and Time Offsets and Deviations for NBS Radio Statim WWV, WWVH, WWVL, and WWVB."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"Provides an overview of the technical articles and features presented in this issue."
"Some recent developments in the area of sensitivity in optimal control systems are summarized. The several sensitivity definitions, analysis methods, and design techniques are placed in perspective. A selected list of references is included."
"In high-speed communication through a medium with time-frequency spread (such as in HF ionospheric, sonic underwater, and voice-quality telephone line transmission), the transmission speed and system errors are determined by an overall system variance (or equivalent noise). This overall variance comprises: 1) the intersymbol interference variance from time spread (or dispersion in the unit impulse response of the medium); 2) the variance from frequency spread (or dispersion it the CW response of the medium); and 3) the variance from channel noise at the receiver. In order to mitigate intersymbol variance from time spread, after discussing some early and limited attempts, a review is made of the general synthesis of the infinite and finite Wiener optimal networks or equalizers using delay lines with feedforward and/or feedback taps (or their shift register digital network counterpart). Also considered are optimal finite feedforward delay line approximations to the Wiener networks, synthesized nonsequentially and sequentially using a steepest descent evolutionary network synthesis, resulting in a monotonically decreasing and convergent overall variance. Applications of these networks are shown in the transmission of speeded-up analog facsimile pictures over unconditioned voice-quality telephone lines. It is shown that the received smeared picture can be refocused or de-smeared, or its time spread mitigated, to allow overall satisfactory high-speed picture transmission. Moreover, in over-the-horizon HF ionospheric analog and/or data transmission, time spread occurs in the form of discrete multi-path reception, such as the familiar ghosts observed in television. A particularly stringent multipath comprises two equal or nearly equal magnitude paths, a situation which is actually observed in HF ionospheric communication between two ships at sea. For this case it is shown that serial data transmission with pulses thin enough to resolve the multipath achieves, with optimal equalization, an irreducible bit error ratio (BER) which is a number of orders of magnitude less than the irreducible BER of the parallel data transmission method used in all contemporary HF modems (modulators and demodulators). Design curves are given showing the intersymbol interference variance from time spread as a function of the number of taps it the delay line correction networks, along with the variance arising from channel noise, and the optimal allocation of both variances for minimal overall BER with a given number of taps for the finite realizable correction networks. Because of frequency spread, the ever-changing unit or impulse response of the medium (e.g., HF ionospheric) causes the correction or equalization networks to become aged, giving rise to frequency spread variance. This is formulated both for determinate and for random changes of the medium unit response. For transmission media having simultaneous time spread and frequency spread, the equivalent overall variance is a simple function of the time-frequency spread product of the medium. These formulas are applied to find the overall minimal BER as a function of the time-frequency product for a contemporary parallel data modem and for a new serial adaptive data transmission system (ADAPTICOM) which periodically in real time and with digital techniques rejuvenates the time spread digital correction networks. It is shown that the transmission limit of communication of the parallel data modem is for a time-frequency spread product of about 1/2000, while that for the new serial adaptive data modem is about ten times larger, or 1/200. As a result, new communication channels are opened up for serial adaptive transmission, such as the HF spectrum below the maximum usable frequency (MUF)."
"The recent introduction of structured cells characterized by no cell-to-cell interaction, adequate sense signal, and array tolerance under repetitive worse-case disturb evaluation and coincident current operation, has made possible new systems approaches. A coincident current \"hybrid\" (word-bit) system utilizing room temperature decoders and structured loop cell arrays was designed to satisfy the criteria pertinent to a very large random access cryoelectric memory. Besides offering the advantage of an early realization of a cryoelectric memory, compared to previous systems advanced, several other benefits are realized: 1) low electronics cost, especially in large systems sizes, 2) low heat load, and 3) potential plane yield improvement through redundancy techniques. Although a disadvantage is the large number of interconnections, analysis shows that the overall memory cost can be minimized through proper substrate design. The technology required by the hybrid system embodies present art, and very large random access cryoelectric memories employing hybrid organization and loop cell arrays appear to be feasible."
"Considerations in the application and matching of two-pole cylindrical rotor generators to gas turbines for peaking service are discussed. Various criteria are reviewed, including generator thermal rating and limitations, gas turbine ratings, altitude factors, cyclic operating duty, rapid loading considerations, generator ventilation and air filtration, noise, steady-state and transient performance, and special generator features."
"A survey of the theory and applications of the class of random processes is presented. Topics discussed include the law of large numbers, covariance estimation, and the relationship of linear to normal processes. Various applications of the linear process to problems of communication theory are considered. These include prediction, signal extraction, and detection, using the linear process as a model for the signal or noise. Several exmples illustrating certain aspects of linear processes are given."
"In recent literature radiation emitted or reflected from a body or surface has been modeled as equivalent radiation from a collection of individual discrete radiators. This model has application to the analysis of forward and backscatter from rough surfaces, clutter and chaff models for radar, and cavity emissions at optical frequencies. In this paper we investigate radiation using a generalization of the above radiator ensemble. We allow some degree of coupling to exist between individual radiators, and we assume each radiator emits random energy bursts as a Poisson process. Analysis is confined to power spectral densities and first-order statistics of the resulting scalar radiation fieid. The results indicate that the pulsed radiator model can account for many properties of radiation. A by-product of the analysis is a filter model for dispersive channels, applicable to radar design problems. Theoretical results are compared with previously reported experimental results wherever possible. Some consideration is given to a relativistic interpretation of the radiator ensemble."
"With credible assumptions, a general law is developed which appears to encompass all distributions arising from processes involving independent events. A number of familiar distributions may be obtained therefrom as well as many unusual distributions. The results suggest new methods for the analysis of experimental data and observations."
"A current controlled negative differential resistance effect that can produce relaxation-type oscillations at frequencies in the 104- to 105-Hz range has been observed in n-type gallium arsenide."
"A new type of halftone charge-controlled viewing storage tube has been demonstrated which uses the field-effect principle and requires no flood beam or storage mesh. Such tubes are potentially capable of high writing speeds and very long viewing times. In addition, selected portions of stored patterns may be erased and information can be displayed without being stored."
"It is commonly assumed that digital filters with both poles and zeros in the complex z-plane can be synthesized using only recursive techniques while filters with zeros alone can be synthesized by either direct convolution or via the discrete Fourier transform (DFT). In this letter it is shown that no such restrictions hold and that both types of filters (those with zeros alone or those with both poles and zeros) can be synthesized using any of the three methods, namely, recursion, DFT, or direct convolution."
"An analytical approximation of FET characteristics for positive and negative voltages is presented. The distortion in an application as a controlled attenator is calculated, and a method of reducing distortion by a factor of more than 50 is described."
"The unlamped electrooptic coefficient r41of high-purity CdTe has been measured at 23.35 and 27.95 micros in the far infrared. The values obtained for n03r41are 9.4 × 10-11m/V at 23.35 µ and 8.1 × 10-11m/V at 27.95 µ. Using previously reported values for n0, the electrooptic coefficients are found to be 5.5 × 10-12m/V at 23.35 µ and 5.0 × 10-12m/V at 27.95 µ. These measurements extend the region of observed electrooptic effect from 16 µ, previously obtained using GaAs, to 28 µ using CdTe."
"The canonical form of the network equations based on the mixed potential function are developed and examined from a topological viewpoint."
"The operational amplifier equivalent of a hybrid transformer notch filter is presented together with the design equations."
"A new formula is given for the distortion of an FM signal produced by a linear network. It extends the first-order theory of Rice by including a modification due to Bedrosian and Rice."
"Traveling wave amplification has been obtained in an IMPATT diode fabricated in the form of a long, narrow strip and imbedded in a strip-line circuit. The results of an analysis of this device and experimental observation of gain and phase shift are reported."
"A comparison of two different statistical input models is made in order to decide upon which of these models the design of an optimum predictor should be based. Under certain circumstances, samples of typical data may be fitted equally well by two or more statistical input models. Since it is necessary to have a statistical model for the input before an optimal predictor can be designed, a method is developed for deciding which of these models to choose. Two specific models are used in the comparison, but the method is general and may be applied to other models. The method of comparison is to design an optimal predictor based on each input model assumption and determine how well each filter would perform if the other input were applied. The filter with the best performance for either input model assumption is chosen. The performance for each filter is measured by the mean squared error. The results are summarized in curves of mean squared error versus observation time for a given signal filter configuration."
"A nonlinear transient effect in avalanche diodes is proposed. In this effect, carriers in a bunch sweep across the depletion region, ionizing as they go, and leaving behind an electric field substantially lower than the initial field, and too low to allow further ionization."
"The integral for the average scattered power from a rough surface obtained from physical optics is shown to be proportional to the joint probability density function for the surface slopes in the high-frequency limit."
"An experiment to study tropospheric structure through the use of high resolution antennas having a very small common volume is described. Measurements at 15.7 GHz over a 500 km path between Boston and Ottawa have been conducted, and signals as large as 25 dB above the receiver noise level have been obtained."
"An upper bound on the average digit error probability of a linear block code is given which is dependent only upon the minimum distance of the code. The tightness of this bound is also demonstrated, and an example is given where knowledge of the average digit error probability is important."
"The slope method for calibrating vibrating sample magnetometers requires spherical samples of high permeability such that µ + 2/µ - 1 ≈ 1 It is shown that the presence of a small remanence in the calibration spheres results in an effective permeability that is as great if not greater than the initial permeability often used in the above equation. This even higher permeability further increases the validity of this approximation."
"Application of Pontryagin's maximum principle to the problem of restoring a power system to its steady-state operating point in minimum time after a transient disturbance is discussed. A new mode of control is presented."
"This letter investigates the question of the existence and form of the mixed potential function (MPF) for a fairly wide range of networks."
"Three modes of operation of bulk-semiconductor devices are derived from a small-signal theory: 1) admittance-type negative conductance, 2) impedance-type negative resistance, and 3) nearly frequency-independent negative conductance. Their behavior is in approximate agreement with that of the modes of stable amplification, Gunn oscillation, and LSA oscillation, respectively, in Copeland's characterization."
"Single screw continuous mechanical tuning of avalanche diodes has been achieved over better than an octave in the 4-13 GHz frequency range with an output power variation of 6 dB. A good match between diode and circuit can be obtained over a very wide frequency range by using a coaxial cavity with a loop coupled output."
"Waves in inhomogeneous warm magnetoplasmas with static pressure gradients are discussed. A dyadic used in formulating the theory is applied to the case of planar stratified plasmas."
"Uniform transmission line response to independent distributed sources is examined on the basis of recently reported results. To indicate the applicability of these results to actively coupled transmission line analysis, the traveling-wave transistor is analyzed."
"From experimental observations, resistivity-fluence design curves have been determined for reactor neutrons in silicon at room temperature."
"An electrooptic light modulator (Pockels tube) and a coherent light source form the basis for the on-line generation of Fourier transforms of video images."
"A phase shift network is described which adjusts the phase, from -π to +π, of an incoming signal without change in amplitude with respect to phase."
"A new nonreciprocal device using a resonance detuning principle is described and experimental results are presented. The experimental device worked at 1.2 GHz, and at midband showed 1 dB insertion loss, 28 dB directivity and 30 dB isolation, with a 30 MHz bandwidth between the 20 dB isolation points. The device can be used as a nonreciprocal narrow bandpass filter or a four-port circulator."
"A cadmium sulfide-silicon composite resonator is discussed which could be used as a tuning device in silicon integrated circuits. The structure and fabrication of these devices are described, together with some measured electrical characteristics."
"The phase of the scattered fields resulting from the interaction of arbitrarily polarized plane waves and uniformly moving conducting bodies of arbitrary cylindrical cross section is examined. Conditions are derived under which a Doppler effect may be defined in the conventional manner."
"A bulk effect hot carrier microwave modulator for Q-band is described in which the required applied voltages are reduced by an order of magnitude from previous modulators. This is accomplished by the use of semiconductor chips of short lengths."
"The temperature coefficient of the resonant frequency and the coupling constant of the LiNbO3single crystal were found for various crystallographic orientations from plate-shaped resonators in the thickness vibrational mode. The temperature coefficient varied between 7.1 and 9.3 × 10-5°C-1in any crystal orientation."
"Using diodes, transistors, and magnetic cores, a passive circuit has been constructed which will transform the voltage, either up or down, of indefinitely repeated positive or negative pulses. It provides direct current isolation between multiple loads, and between a load and the source."
"The optimum polarization of a receiving antenna is defined as that which will reject the polarization of an unwanted signal whilst delivering maximum power when receiving a desired polarization. A method for determining this optimum polarization is given in the general case when the two signals are interdependent, and, in particular, when they are radar signals whose polarizations are functions of the polarization of the transmitted wave."
"A simple frequency-selective circuit is proposed having an arbitarily high Q and at the same time a minimal sensitivity. Use is made of an LC circuit and a special type of negative conductor."
"It is experimentally shown that an optical bistability phenomenon can be achieved with a continuous-wave GaAs laser at 20 K. This effect seems to be explained by junction heating."
"A simple analysis is used to show that the power-impedance product of the transit-time oscillations in two-valley semiconductors is proportional to the square of the product of the difference between the applied and the sustaining electric fields and the drift velocity, and inversely propor-portional to the square of the frequency. The result is applied, as an exmple, to the Gunn-effect diode of GaAs."
"The influence of winds aloft, as measured by weather balloons, on the fading rate of microwaves propagated beyond the horizon is reexamined."
"Four notices: (1) Notice of No Adjustments in Phase of Seconds Pulses from NBS Radio Station WWVB and No Adjustments in Phases of Time Pulses from NBS Radio Stations WWV and WWVH on October 1, 1968; (2) Notice of Change in Coding GEOALERTS Broadcast by NBS Radio Stations; (3) Notice of Changes in Standard Time and Frequency Broadcasts from NBS Radio Station WWVL; (4) Monthly Frequency and Time Offsets and Deviations for NBS Radio Stations WWV, WWVH, WWVL, and WWVB. It is also noted that NBS Standard Time and Frequency Notices will not be published in the PROCEEDINGS after this issue. NBS time and frequency information is contained in the monthly NBS Time and Frequency Bulletin, available from the Chief, Frequency-Time Broadcast Services, Time and Frequency Division, National Bureau of Standards, Boulder, CO, USA."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"Provides an overview of the technical articles and features presented in this issue."
"A format is presented for the design of Electronic Scanning Radar Systems (ESRS). Theoretical and practical design considerations unique to ESRS are emphasized. An introductory discussion of the role electronic scanning technology plays in fulfilling modern radar requirements is followed by a brief description of the generic types of electronic scan available to the radar designer. The system parameters affecting mission performance are listed. The corresponding radar functions that are particularly affected by the ESR selection are delineated, concluding with a discussion of the merits of the selection. Major decisions are single or multiple simultaneous beams and narrow, intermediate, or wide bandwidth performance capability. Automatic multitarget acquisition logic, computer controlled iterative tracking, equations, interpolative-null tracking, error budgets, and errors unique to ESRS are topics of discussion. The ESRS design procedure is illustrated with practical examples."
"This paper presents two alternative methods for determining the current distribution in the elements of a scanning rectangular array which is optimum in the sense that its radiation pattern has a constant sidelobe level and a narrowest beamwidth in all directions. Exact formulas for both even and odd numbers of elements are given. The dependence of the main-lobe beamwidth on the total number of elements, the element spacing, the sidelobe level, and the scan angle is studied in detail. The minimum required number of controlled elements in a square array with electronic beam scanning over a specified sector for a guaranteed upper limit on beamwidth without grating lobes is determined. Numerical results are included, which illustrate many interesting features of the new design technique."
"Approximate but accurate formulas are presented in a closed form that makes possible an easy examination and computation of directivity and beamwidth for large scanning Dolph-Chebyshev arrays. Array length, number of elements, spacing of the elements, sidelobe level, and angle of scan are parameters. Element spacings less than λ/2 are included. Comparisons between exact and approximate theory are presented in a graphical form that illustrates the lower limits of array size for which the approximations are valid. The maximum directivity for Chebyshev arrays is in principle limited, regardless of array size. Values of maximum directivity, and the particular array designs required to achieve them, are given for several fixed array lengths. The directivity-beamwidth product is evaluated over a wide range of sidelobe levels and array lengths, and the region over which this product is essentially constant is specified. In the interests of achieving joint minimization of beamwidth and maximization of directivity, the particular Chebyshev design such that the directivity-beamwidth ratio is maximized is determined."
"An optically fed phased array must be provided with a means of collimation as well as with a beam steering function. The same phase shifters which are used to steer the beam can be used to collimate the beam. The use of row-and-column phase commands, while greatly simplifying the beam steering function over that required for commanding individual elements, precludes the attainment of exact collimation. A consequent phase error across the aperture results in a loss of antenna gain. For a given order of approximation to the collimation function, the minimization of the gain loss is a valid criterion for completely specifying all the parameters of the approximate collimation function. The gain loss incurred can then be determined. This paper develops the equations necessary to specify any order of approximation to the collimation function and the expression for the gain loss. Examples illustrate the differences between first- and second-order approximations and the effect of another parameter (f/D) on the gain loss of a typical antenna system."
"The steering of a phased-array antenna requires the generation of specific calculated values of phase for each active radiating element in the array. These phase values are generally derived by a special-purpose computer which receives basic steering data from a general-purpose system computer. The system computer transfers two basic steering commands which permit positioning the beam in two dimensions. Typically, these two commands consist of the phase increments required for each row and column in the array for steering in the basic azimuthal and elevation direction. The calculations performed by the beam steering computer then derive the phase for each row and each column in the array. However, on the basis of the angular coverage requirements of a typical array, it turns out that the optimum placement of the elements does not fall on a rectangular grid but on apices of triangles. The use of X-Y addressing of the elements consequently requires superfluous rows or columns, some of which access only 50 percent of the elements. By selecting a non-orthogonal set of axes in the array, related to the element pattern, considerable savings in equipment and computation can be realized. This paper derives the relationship between the steering commands used in a non-orthogonal or skewed-axis system and those normally used in an X-Y-oriented system. Reduction in equipment and time are computed and effects on pointing accuracy discussed."
"Many phased arrays are designed to use digital or digitalized phase shifters in which the phase shift varies in discrete steps rather than continuously. In such cases, the beam can be steered only in discrete steps. Granularity, defined as the finest realizable increment between adjacent beam positions, is an important parameter in the description of the performance of a phased array antenna using digital phase shifters. Two approaches to the problem of determining granularity are developed in this paper. The first is based upon the expansion by its moments of complex aperture distribution functions; the second is based upon approximating the actual discrete phase distribution by a linear continuous one. Results of the two approaches are shown to be in excellent agreement, with a variation of less than 3.6 percent being obtained. Arrays employing binary digital phase shifters are explicitly considered, but the techniques can be generalized to other types of digital, or digitalized, phase shifters. For other than the first beam position, there are alternate phase distributions which might be used to obtain a given beam position. The selection of a specific phase distribution depends, at least in part, upon the computer logic and round-off procedures. It is shown that these alternate phase distributions do not produce large differences in the beam position. The spread in beam position is between 2 and 3 percent for the alternate distributions. The effect of an amplitude taper on granularity is also considered. It is found that when the edge elements are less intensely illuminated than those at the center, the first beam position off-broadside is nearer broadside than for an array having the same phase distribution but uniform amplitude. The average granularity of a phased array has been determined, and is plotted against the number of elements with the number of phase bits as a parameter."
"One approach to phased-array antenna beam forming and steering is to multiplex the element signals into a single channel. Appropriate \"sampling\" of the resulting multiplexed signal can provide electronically steered and shaped beams. This paper describes four practical system concepts for linear and ring arrays based on this approach and discusses significant interrelationships between the various concepts. For linear arrays of elements, the two alternatives are to frequency or time multiplex the element signals. Frequency multiplexing of the element signals produces time-multiplexed beam output signals, and time multiplexing the element signals produces frequency-multiplexed beam output signals. It is also shown here that appropriate correlation \"sampling\" may be used with either of these to produce easily one or more continuously and electronically steered signal bandwidth beam outputs. Ring arrays of elements may be multiplexed and \"sampled\" in a somewhat analogous pair of techniques. It is also pointed out that the beam steering in this case may be visualized as the linear phase steering of a set of linear phase modes into which the signal received at the array may be resolved. Ring array beam forming and steering may thus be directly understood in terms of the previous linear array techniques."
"Triangular lattice arrays fed uniformly are found similar in their radiation characteristics to linear tapered arrays. In addition, they direct most of their energy in the forward direction with relatively low side-lobe level. The maximum nominal directivity is in general higher numerically than the total number of elements in the array. A universal amplitude contour map is found capable of handling both right and oblique triangular lattice arrays."
"The application of general N-port Butler matrices to the generation of multiple beams-from planar arrays is described. It is shown that the array must satisfy a \"covering\" condition. The interconnection of array and matrix is derived. The method, for determination of beam position is developed and applied to rectangular arrays to improve beam crossover level. Examples are presented."
"In recent years, unusual dips or nulls have been observed in the element patterns of certain phased-array antennas at angles closer to broadside than that for which an endfire grating lobe exists. These nulls are known to bear a direct and simple relation to a total reflection condition which occurs when all elements of the array are excited. The purposes of this paper are to investigate the basic cause of these element pattern nulls, and to clarify the relationship between these nulls and possible guided waves which may be supported by the array face. It is shown herein that, for a certain class of arrays, these nulls (actually the total reflection condition) are caused by the forced resonance of a higher external mode in the vicinity of the array aperture. The nature of this resonance is demonstrated on a simple infinite array representative of a class of structures which permit external resonances. A detailed analysis of this array (of waveguide-fed slots covered by a dielectric layer) yields a simple equivalent network from which the existence, approximate angular location, and qualitative behavior of the element pattern null are determined by inspection. There are two types of guided waves which are of concern here, surface waves and leaky waves. It is shown that the actual array cannot support a true surface wave, and that the surface wave customarily associated with element pattern nulls is really a driven surface-wave-like field which appears on the array face only at precisely the total reflection condition, and which is indistinguishable in its properties from a true surface wave on a modified (corrugated) structure, not on the actual array. The leaky wave, whose role is explained here for the first time, is a true mode of the actual array and radiates at an angle close to that for the element pattern null. Its influence on the element pattern null is akin to the relation between free and forced resonances, and its attenuation constant yields the width of this null."
"In this paper a generalized expression for the complex power radiated by an element in an infinite planar array antenna is derived. Since this power formula applies to a large class of phased array antennas where the aperture field distribution can be completely specified (in normal mode form), it proves to be a powerful, unifying principle. The utility of this approach is illustrated by the simplicity with which previously known results can be derived; e.g., an infinite array of slots in a ground plane and an infinite array of flat dipoles with or without a ground plane. Further demonstrations of the usefulness of the power formula are provided by the systematic and straightforward solutions of the less-well-known problems of infinite arrays of crossed-dipole pairs and infinite arrays of open-ended rectangular waveguides. The waveguide array solution is particularly interesting because it reduces to a set of equations which are identical to those one would use to characterize an N-port network on an admittance basis (N is the number of waveguide modes). Since the power formula is derived for a parallelogram element Lattice, the resultant solution for a specific type of element is in its most general form. Expressions for the scan-dependent, dominant mode radiation admittance and the element gain function for a multimode rectangular waveguide radiator are also derived. In addition, various aspects of the waveguide array solution are investigated in the light of previous studies of infinite arrays."
"The impedance of a phased array of waveguides arranged in a triangular lattice and fitted with H-plane corrugated plates is analyzed using a scattering matrix method. The principal result is a virtually exact equivalent network consisting of three interconnected three-ports, each derived in terms of physical dimensions and scan angles for any volume or plane of scan limited only by grating lobes. A typical design procedure is illustrated by the case of scanning anywhere within an octant of a sphere. The cause of surface wave impedance mismatches, and the circumvention of the difficulty are described. Very fine sampling of the impedance versus angle would be required to ensure good performance were it not for certain matching criteria which are developed from the network. To avoid conditions of complete mismatch, the element area must be reduced by 2 percent less than that spacing required for grating lobe suppression. The maximum VSWR is less than 3.0:1 and the average is close to 2.0:1 in this case."
"The influence of the waveguide aperture size on the admittance variation with scan angle of a waveguide phased array is presented. It is shown that certain size waveguide apertures can cause zero radiation directions. Design criteria which yield the maximum waveguide size to minimize or eliminate this condition are derived."
"The asymptotic decay of coupling with distance from a single excited element it an infinite linear array has been analyzed for several special cases and is shown to behave according to exp (-jkr)/r3/2where r is the distance from the excited element. This behavior is also characteristic of propagation over a lossy surface. By geometric extrapolation one would expect an asymptotic decay of coupling for planar arrays to behave according to exp (-jkr)/r2. This extension is carried out for an arbitrary infinite periodic planar current sheet with the expected result. In addition, this behavior is shown to be valid for an infinite parallel plate array immersed in a magnetized cold plasma. In all cases, the asymptotic behavior is shown to depend on the form of the singularity of the derivative of the reflection coefficient with scan angle. This singularity occurs at grazing incidence of the radiated beams."
"A general method is established for the evaluation of the driving point admittance of a radiating aperture, fed by a waveguide of the same cross section as the aperture, in an infinite periodic planar phased array. The array may have an arbitrary element lattice and it may be covered by a dielectric layer. The coefficients of the waveguide modal expansion and of the Floquet series representing the electromagnetic field in the waveguide and in the radiation half-space, respectively, are determined by approximately enforcing the boundary conditions in the array plane through an application of Galerkin's method. By eliminating from the set of equations thus obtained the complex amplitudes of the waveguide modes and of the Floquet harmonics, the driving point admittance can be expressed as the ratio of two determinants of order N and N-1 (N being the number of the waveguide modes utilized), whose elements contain truncated bidimensional series, structurally similar to the well-known grating-lobe series. The expression allows relatively simple numerical computations if the Fourier transforms of the waveguide vector mode functions are known in closed form (as they are for rectangular or circular elements). The variation of the power reflection loss with scan angle has been numerically calculated for various array configurations. The results are in some cases substantially different from those predicted through the conventional grating-lobe series technique, which is based on the assumption of one-mode elements."
"By means of a Poisson sum formula and an integral-equation technique, an accurate solution for an infinite phased dipole array is obtained. The elements of the array are spaced uniformly and are excited with increasing phases. The technique can be applied to an infinite collinear array and to an infinite planar array either in free space or over a ground plane. The integral equation is solved both by a Fourier method and by an approximate five-term procedure. It is found that the latter is as good as the former. The current distributions and the active admittances are investigated."
"A formulation is presented of the interrelationship among mutual coupling element efficiency, active impedance, and element radiation patterns for infinite linear (uniformly spaced) arrays. Numerical results are obtained for element efficiency and mutual coupling when the array elements are elementary dipoles. A new lower upper bonnd is obtained on element efficiency. This upper bound is expressed directly in terms of the element patterns in the open-circuit array environment."
"The bandpass characteristic required for wide instantaneous bandwidth microwave components for phased arrays is described. One of the primary error considerations in the bandpass characteristic is the error effect on a compressed, frequency-chirped signal, the errors producing spurious time sidelobes and pulse broadening. Following this the design and performance of five types of microwave components or subsystems, operating over a 10 percent bandwidth, are discussed. These descriptions are of 1) tunnel diode amplifier, 2) microwave switching matrix, 3) subarray corporate feed, 4) ferrite phase shifter, and 5) time delayer for subarray steering. The tunnel diode amplifier (TDA) is of low-cost design, has 15 dB gain, 5.6 dB noise figure, and measurements of 100 amplifiers show standard deviations of insertion phase and gain of 5 degrees and 0.3 dB, respectively. The microwave switching matrix is constructed from ferrite, latching, TEM switches. A path through the matrix consists of 18 switches and has periodic gain and phase errors of 0.3 dB and 3 degrees, maximum. Path-to-path gain variations have a one sigma amplitude variation of 0.18 dB and a one sigma phase variation of 6.8 degrees. High-performance, low-cost ferrite switches were developed for the switching matrix and the nonreciprocal property of the switches has been shown to produce enhanced performance over reciprocal diode switches. The subarray corporate feed is of high-power waveguide-type construction and contains hybrid power dividers throughout to minimize reflection effects. The feed consists of two major subassemblies, each of which is entirely dip-brazed. The insertion phase and amplitude errors of the feed are 10 degrees and ±0.2 dB, maximum. The total insertion loss is 0.5 dB. The ferrite phase shifter is a wide-band design which will handle 65 kW peak power and 400 W average. The design employs a ferrite toroid in waveguide and the driver is analog and latching. The phase shifter has constant phase shift over the band; insertion loss is approximately 1.1 dB and is virtually free from higher-mode resonance loss peaks. Three system configuration of time delayers are considered. The design and performance of a 5-bit time delayer employing ferrite, latching TEM switches is described. The time delayer will handle an input power of 10 kW peak and 100 W average. Phase and amplitude errors through the time delayer are ±3 degrees and 0.5 dB, maximum."
"The electronically controlled phased array radar antenna has received considerable attention in the last decade. Requiring no mechanical motion for steering, it can scan in microseconds or, with some phase control elements, in nanoseconds. Even multiple beams can be formed electronically. In the future, for almost every antenna steering application, the electrically steered array will be desired provided cost, reliability, power handling capability, bandwidth, and insertion loss can be made comparable with the mechanical systems. At present, only the electronic array can be used to achieve microsecond steering. Both ferrite and semiconductor media have undergone serious development to meet the task of controlling rapidly the phase of the signals applied to elemental radiators in the phased array. In this paper, an attempt is made to review the progress and potential of the discrete increment, semiconductor controlled, microwave phase shifter."
"This paper reviews the operating principles of four types of reciprocal latching ferrite phase shifters and compares them with respect to normalized phase shift and RF insertion loss. The effects of frequency and temperature on the phase shift are also discussed. Consideration is given to size and weight, as well as RF power handling, important factors in an array intended for field-environment conditions. Partially switched configurations using quasi-circularly polarized normal modes are shown to have the most desirable performance characteristics of the phase shifters studied. Such structures can have a simple geometry that is compatible with low-cost mass production, and can also be adapted to computer-controlled compensation of changes in operating temperature and frequency."
"A planar phased-array antenna presents a reflection at its face which varies greatly with phasing for wide-angle steering of the beam. A radiator element for an array of many elements may be designed on the basis of an infinite array, simulated in waveguide for measurements or expressed in terms of the \"grating-lobe series\" for computation. Neither of these techniques is sufficient by itself, but the two are complementary to give the required information on array performance. There is presented a commentary on the problems peculiar to the design of a radiator element, followed by a description of some design techniques, and an outline of a design procedure based on these techniques. The validity and utility of this approach has been demonstrated in element designs for several arrays of many elements. A few examples are discussed. The practical benefit is the resulting economy of effort and lapsed time required to arrive at a proven design, based on simulator tests of a few elements and computations for a wide range of conditions."
"A method of achieving a matched radiating element in both a phased linear array and a phased two-dimensional array over wide ranges of scan angle has been developed. This method uses two or more propagating modes in each array element such that the reflections of these modes from the array aperture produce a cancellation effect at the element driving terminal. An experimental 32-element linear array was constructed to verify this technique. The measured input VSWR for this experimental array was 1.17 or less over a scan range of ±54 degrees. This result agreed very well with the predicted value. The same method has been shown to be equally effective in achieving matched radiating elements for a two-dimensional array."
"A simple equation is derived relating the reflection coefficients of the edge elements and the center elements of a two-dimensional antenna array. Calculated values of the coupling and reflection coefficients are presented for TEM-mode parallel-plate horn arrays. These are compared to published values for arrays with ground planes."
"The impedance variations that occur in phase-scanned arrays should be considered during the design of the array radiating element. A general method for selecting the impedance matching section of an array element is discussed. The method makes use of element impedance data and a simple equivalent circuit for the element feed to minimize the mismatch losses in the array. The steps followed in the design of an X-band dipole element and a Ku-band ridged waveguide element are presented to illustrate the procedure."
"The HAPDAR (HArd Point Demonstration Array Radar) described is a multifunction phased array radar in operation at the White Sands Missile Range. The principle design feature is the TACOL (Thinned Aperture COmputed Lens) array. The array and system design concepts are discussed and a detailed physical, functional, and analytical description of the radar is presented. Recently obtained operational test results on array patterns and multitarget tracking performance are discussed and compared with design specifications."
"An eight-element Ku-band linear phased array system with frequency of operation between 16 and 17 GHz is described. Beam scanning is performed by steering mixers located in the element channels, with element phasing information generated at L-band frequencies. The system employs a hybrid mode of beam scanning. That is, the beam steering programmer can digitally deploy the beam in target space with continuous straddle scan about each discrete beam position. The beam can be scanned 45 degrees off the boresight axis in nominal steps of 11 degrees. However, the beam steering programmer design is flexible enough to permit finer steppings within the scan sector using up to 15 discrete beam positions. This paper gives information on the array design and performance data."
"The two-reflector antenna system is widely used in its Cassegrain form for many applications because it has considerable versatility in the optimization of its design parameters. By replacing either one of its continuous reflecting surfaces with a discrete-element phased array, additional versatility is created. Both cases are discussed herein and key experiments are reported which verify that such modifications are practical. When the main reflector becomes a phased array, a fairly large region of space can be scanned rapidly. The configuration investigated indicates that a modest reduction in the number of array elements, as compared to conventional arrays, can be obtained by absorption of the array factor grating lobe structure. Excellent monopulse pattern characteristics are also shown throughout the scan region. When the subreflector becomes a phased array, a small region of space can be scanned rapidly with very few array elements. The configuration investigated indicates that phase control based on geometrical optics analyses is sufficient to overcome the usual aperture phase aberrations which occur with displaced and/or multiple feed antenna geometries. Conventional array beam-steering expressions become somewhat complex when exact results are to be implemented. A major advantage of the two-reflector antenna wherein one surface is a phased array is the possibility of making modifications to existing systems at reasonable costs through a redesign of only one subunit in the configuration."
"Steering a radiation beam originating from a stationary antenna rapidly and at will is one of the most attractive problems in the field of antenna engineering. This paper describes some aspects of the authors' efforts to develop an efficient and reliable electronic scanning antenna system. The prototype of the antenna consists of a linear array, a power distributor, an electronic phase-shift feed scheme, and its driver. The array consists of ceramic rod antennas, which are fed separately from the ends of parallel waveguides lined up in the H-plane. The power distributor is composed of directional couplers and magic tees, and is used for beam forming. The electronic phase-shift feed scheme is provided by inserting a ferrite phase shifter into each of the above-mentioned waveguides. The waveguides are of equal length and are connected in parallel to the microwave source (transmitter, receiver, or both) through the power distributor. The driver generates a number of sawtooth wave currents, which have different repetition frequencies derived from the design equation, and excite the corresponding ferrite phase shifters. Thus a uniform progressive phase shift, which varies in a sawtooth waveform with time, is achieved along the array and the radiation beam is scanned with higher efficiency. The design and engineering of the antenna are discussed, with special attention to performance reliability and reproducibility."
"The development of a small, lightweight, electronically scanned passive phased array suitable for use in spaceborne or airborne systems is considered. Conventional edge-slotted traveling-wave linear elements are assembled into a planar array, the beam of which is scanned in one dimension by Reggia-Spencer type ferrite phase shifting elements. The array has been mated with a microwave radiometric receiver and used to make airborne radiometric images of the earth."
"The Butler-matrix-fed circular array will form a focussed radiation pattern when the proper current distribution is established on the inputs to the matrix. Further, this beam can be scanned through 360° by changing only the phases of the matrix input currents, just as with a linear array scanning is accomplished by varying the phases of the element currents. This operation was experimentally demonstrated with a 32-dipole circular array and reasonable agreement was obtained between the measured and calculated patterns. Finally, a synthesis procedure is described for determining the matrix input currents required to attain a prescribed current distribution on the array."
"A microwave self-steering repeater for earth-satellite communications is described. This system operates at 7.3 to 8.0 GHz and consists of two independent 125-MHz FM channels. Each channel forms and steers a receiving and transmitting beam 3 degrees wide over a 30-degree cone of coverage. The minimum gain is 30 dB with an effective radiated power per channel of 28 dBW. The four beams are steered independently within the cone of coverage. The details of design and performance are outlined. The results of color television transmissions are shown. A projection to flight hardware is given."
"Because of unavoidable delays in obtaining security clearance, it is not possible to publish this invited paper here. It is expected to be included in a subsequent issue of the Proceedings. (The Editor)"
"Abstracts of special issue on theory of antenna arrays."
"The radiation properties of a simple spherical phased array of 16 flat spiral antennas have been investigated experimentally over a frequency range of 0.6 GHz to 3 GHz. The results obtained indicate that such an array is capable of operating with widely spaced antenna elements. The spherical array surface considerably reduces the grating lobe amplitudes in the pattern, thereby making the array broad-band. The polarization characteristics of the radiation field were also studied."
"Fine grain measurements of avalanche multiplication and noise in large area uniform silicon avalanche diodes are discussed. A high resolution apparatus is described which is capable of resolving multiplication noise in regions separated by only 10-4inches (∼2.5 microns) and recording this noise as a function of position over the entire diode area."
"Instead of a histogram construction for the evaluation of an unknown PDF, the use of the uniform distribution of coverages of order statistics is proposed. This estimation makes it possible to evaluate the differential entropy of a continuous random variable directly through the distances between neighboring ordered observations. On the basis of this evaluation, a new nonparametric test can be constructed."
"Pulses in which the carrier frequency is swept through about 60 MHz have been generated with a CO2laser. The technique uses an offset rotating mirror. The pulse energy is about 2 × 10-4joule."
"The extremely broad-band negative resistance properties of a punch-through silicon avalanche diode enables efficient operation to be extended to small transit angles. Operation over approximately three octaves is effected by the transit-time mode and a low-frequency mode characterized by the presence of higher frequency idler components."
"For the formation of dipole domains in specimens of GaAs, it is normally required that the product of donor density n and length be nL > 5 × 1011cm-2. For surface oriented Gunn diodes prepared on thin epitaxial GaAs layers, it is shown theoretically that under certain conditions the oscillation criterion is now nd ≥ 1.6 × 1011cm-2, where d is the film thickness."
"A new type of field-effect image storage panel has been demonstrated in which local charging or discharging of the semiconductor layer is controlled by an adjacent photoconductive layer. With such panels erasure can be optically controlled and a stored luminescent image produced of the same or opposite polarity compared with the input image."
"Experiments have been carried out to determine the AM-PM conversion coefficients of traveling-wave tubes, tunnel diode amplifiers, and parametric amplifiers. Phase-input power characteristics have been measured by a precision phase bridge, and formulas are quoted for the calculation of both intelligible and unintelligible cross-talk coupling when the device handles multiple FM carriers."
"The sufficient and necessary conditions for a multivariable feedback system to be stable are proved by using the dynamic equation description. The stability criterion for discrete multivariable feedback systems is also stated."
"The use of a changeover switch (COS) is suggested to enable the transformation of RC low-pass networks to other frequencies to be realized without the change of any element within the network. In addition, since the COS used in this application has multiple positions, it can be operated in different permutations, each modifying the characteristic of the network in the frequency domain. These characteristics show that the COS can be viewed as an additional electrical element to be used in network synthesis."
"An attenuation and phase shift divider circuit is described. The theory is presented for accurate division of small attenuation and phase shift changes by arbitrarily selected ratios, and the procedure is given for adjusting the circuit. The circuit is useful for accurately producing small attenuation changes such as 0.0001 dB and small phase shift changes such as 0.02°, which are outside the capabilities of most commercially available instruments."
"Performances of an MTI radar receiver are usually evaluated by assuming the behavior of the receiver to be linear. This assumption, however, is not valid since the phase detector of a coherent MTI is usually preceded by a limiter in the IF stages. It is shown here that the limiting characteristic greatly affects the performance of the MTI and that the improvement factor is consequently greatly reduced."
"Experiments with the hybrid mode of oscillation in oversized samples of bulk and epitaxially grown GaAs are discussed. This mode is a hybrid of Gunn domain and LSA modes. High output powers and efficiencies are reported. Large-signal impedance data for devices operating in the hybrid mode are also presented."
"Computer simulations were used to define the conditions needed to produce the successful series operation of Gunn effect diodes that have no electrical separation between them. These conditions are outlined. The series operation of two diodes was demonstrated experimentally."
"A relationship between intermodulation and cross-modulation distortions is established for the double-balanced modulator using the concept of modulating function. Experimental results agree closely with theoretical predictions."
"Cathodochromic materials undergo a color change upon excitation by an electron beam, but can be restored to their original color by light irradiation. These materials have been incorporated into cathode-ray tubes, in place of the normal phosphor, to form light erasable dark trace storage tubes having high resolution capabilities."
"A series motor, energized by the current from a noisy resistor, develops a nonzero average torque; it seems that work can be done by the motor while the resistor's temperature decreases, violating the second law of thermodynamics. This paradox is resolved by specifying the thermodynamic properties of the motor's load."
"Absolute rotation in space can be measured by reference to electromagnetic waves. One such technique uses a ring laser. A different technique is proposed, using the polarization of an electromagnetic wave, and a method to realize it at microwave frequencies is suggested."
"A ferrimagnetic, bandpass filter configuration is demonstrated that permits dc magnetic field strengths to be substantially lower than those required with conventional geometries."
"The initial value theorem for a bilateral Laplace transform has recently been shown to be lims→∞sF(s) = f(0+) - f(0-). An alternate proof for this theorem is presented here."
"A graphical method is described for determining the effective plane of symmetry for generalized junction-gate FET structures under arbitrary bias conditions."
"By exaggerating the ripple in the response of a third-order low- or high-pass filter it is possible to obtain a narrow bandpass filter with acceptable insertion loss using reasonable component values. The filter can be readily tuned."
"Theory and experiment are presented for a memory loop containing a GaAs device as the active element. The direction of future improvements is also suggested."
"The pinch-off voltage of several commercial silicon MOSFET types was measured at room temperature and at 4.2°K. Typically, room temperature and 4.2°K values differed in magnitude by approximately one volt."
"A spectroscopic study of a microwave-excited argon discharge showed that the emission spectrum is rich in Ar+lines, suggesting a possibility of attaining laser action in microwave discharges. Laser action was observed in a modified TR tube configuration in a discharge tube of relatively large diameter. The average RF power absorbed in the plasma was less than 20 W."
"Detailed measurements have been made of the falloff in the dc beta of transistors at large collector currents. It is found that beta decreases considerably faster than is predicted by the normal high injection model. The possible relationship of the observed behavior to emitter crowding phenomena is discussed."
"Anomalous enhancement of substrate terminal current is observed in n-channel silicon MOS transistors beyond pinch-off, but not in p-channel devices. This phenomenon is interpreted as the hole current flow caused by the impact ionization of trapped electrons in Si-SiO2interface states and of valenced electrons at the pinched-off channel of the silicon surface."
"The transient phenomena of spark gap discharge in air triggered by a Q-switched ruby laser were studied by high-speed shadowphoto-graphs using another Q-switched ruby laser. A mechanical arrangement to provide time delays between the two laser pulses was worked out. Laser-induced sonic waves and the development of the discharge channel were clearly observed by this technique."
"The realization of a miniaturized adding sample-and-hold device is described. Its delay is continuously adjustable over a range of 1 to 100. Using these circuits, digital filters can be realized in the real-time domain, operating with sampling frequencies from 20 kHz to 200 Hz."
"Fabrication of experimental insulated-gate field-effect transistors on single crystal ZnO is described. Measured transconductance of 10 µmhos is two orders of magnitude smaller than that predicted for this structure by the Hall mobility of 220 cm2/V ċ s. Threshold voltage indicates relatively large values of surface states and/or insulator charge."
"The behavior of the oscillating limiter is shown to be characterized by an equation which, under certain conditions, is equivalent to that pertaining to a first-order phase-locked loop."
"A procedure is proposed for determining the impurity atom profile on one side of a p-n junction from harmonic generation measurements. The analysis indicates that a series of determinations can be made without detailed point-by-point calculations. The ultimate resolution of the method is discussed."
"In the proposed device, the usual channel resistance versus gate voltage characteristic of an enhancement mode MOST is modified so that the channel resistance can be varied controllably over a much larger range of resistance than for a conventional device. This would allow the MOST to be used as a voltage controlled resistor."
"A 3-dB degradation in noise figure usually constitutes the \"failure\" criteria for microwave diode burnout measurements. Schottky-barrier and point-contact diodes, while satisfying this requirement, were found to deteriorate in 1/f and reverse breakdown voltage at lower power levels. Schottky-barrier diodes with large reverse breakdown voltage exhibited high burnout resistance."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"Provides an overview of the technical articles and features presented in this issue."
"The index contains an entry for all items that appeared during the year."
"This paper attempts to lay bare the underlying ideas used in various pattern classification algorithms reported in the literature. It is shown that these algorithms can be classified according to the type of input information required and that the techniques of estimation, decision, and optimization theory can be used to effectively derive known as well as new results."
"A theory is developed for the response of a two-element radio interferometer to a partially coherent field, without restriction as to bandwidth or antenna properties. It is shown that for a completely incoherent source the narrow-band interferometer output is a component of the Fourier transform of the source brightness, which can therefore be mapped by repeated interferometer observations. A partially or completely coherent extended source, on the other hand, cannot be mapped by this technique. The history of radio interferometry in astronomy is discussed and examples are given of the current uses of the technique in the precise measurement of source positions, in the measurement of the diameters of extremely small sources, and in the detailed mapping of complex sources."
"The main theme is a tutorial presentation of the major effects of atmospheric turbulence on the phase and frequency of electromagnetic waves in the optical spectrum. The emphasis is not on a comprehensive review, but rather on the tutorial aspect. Starting from fundamental principles, all significant results are derived by simple physical reasoning and are compared to existing ones in the literature. Unlike classical reviews, some of the more important results that pertain to coherent optics, in particular laser heterodyning, are derived and discussed. Finally, an attempt is made to compare optical phase fluctuations with fluctuations in other portions of the electromagnetic spectrum."
"The decaying plasma present within an experimental vacuum switch following the forced extinction of a 250-ampere arc across silver electrodes is studied. Ions and electrons are collected by applying a 6-volt potential across the vacuum device at various predetermined delay intervals after arc extinction. The magnitudes of the peak currents collected by this means vary from about ½ ampere a few microseconds after arc extinction to less than a milliampere 200 microseconds later. The results suggest that this current is principally due to ions having an initial density of 4 × 1012/cm3and moving with an average velocity of 2.6 × 105cm/s. The movement of these ions is nearly independent of the applied potential."
"A new reflective television display, operating off the air, is described. The display uses the dynamic scattering mode (DSM) in nematic liquid crystals and can be viewed in high-brightness ambients. The liquid crystal cell, 6 to 12 µm thick, was addressed in real time by means of an electron beam using a wire-mosaic faceplate on a demountable cathode ray tube. Two different liquid crystal materials--anasylidene paraamino phenyl acetate (APAPA) and an RCA proprietary room temperature liquid crystal--were tested with similar results except for the difference in operating temperature (82 to 110° C and room temperature, respectively). The resolution of the 3.1-cm-square display was somewhat less than that required for commercial television (∼150 lines), limited by the mosaic structure but not the liquid crystal. Adequate resolution should be achievable in slightly larger displays. The contrast was not optimized (7.5 to 1) but several techniques are available to improve this value to 15 or 20 to 1 as has been demonstrated in static displays. The subjective evaluation of this display points out the attractiveness of reflective television panels; under suitable external illumination the panel has a wide viewing angle (±45° approximately). The current and voltage requirements to achieve the DSM in liquid crystals are such as to raise hopes that an integrated addressing approach suitable for flat television panels can be found."
"The evaluation of radar and active sonar matched filter ambiguity functions is critical to waveform choice, the proper selection of reference signals, and the ability to estimate system performance. In the radar case the evaluation is facilitated by use of the narrow-band approximation wherein Doppler distortion of the transmitted modulation function is neglected. However, modern-day sonar signals are usually broad-band with respect to the carrier frequency and long in duration so that the narrow-band approximation cannot be employed. This creates difficulties in both analytic and computer ambiguity function evaluations. Analytic difficulties arise from the inability to solve the appropriate integrals; computer difficulties, based on direct cross correlation, arise from the long computation time required. This paper shows how evaluation of the ambiguity functions of FM sonar signals having high time-bandwidth products can be greatly facilitated by asymptotic approximations derived on the basis of the principle of stationary phase. Application of the theory allows many seemingly difficult ambiguity evaluation problems involving highly complicated integrals to be solved rapidly using algebraic techniques. As examples of the theory, the cases of linear FM under constant target velocity conditions and hyperbolic (Doppler invariant) FM under constant target acceleration conditions are worked out. In addition, some interesting adjustable Doppler tolerant characteristics of a special modulation technique (parabolic FM) are described."
"The theory and preliminary experimental results for a new type of ultrasonic image converter system are presented. The method uses a scanning laser transmitter and receiver, operating as an optical heterodyne system, to sense the vibration amplitude distribution on a reflective resonant diaphragm placed in the liquid acoustic medium. The output of the optical heterodyne receiver is displayed as an optical image on a cathode ray tube. If an acoustic image is formed on the diaphragm, either by means of acoustic lenses or by shadow imaging, the corresponding pattern will be present in the visible display. Sensitivity to low sound levels is comparable to the best alternate methods for much of the frequency spectrum of interest in this work. Acoustic holograms also can be recorded by this technique, which should be practical with very large acoustic apertures."
"This letter conveys a simple method for remote sensing of the surface properties, both physical and geometrical, of a randomly rough surface by means of a polychromatic bistatic radar. Difficulties in evaluating the properties of a randomly rough surface by the conventional method of calculating the scattering cross section or the average power are discussed."
"An X-band swept frequency oscillator using a Gunn diode and a ferrite phase shifter is described. Sweep widths of 800 MHz and sweep rates up to 400 Hz with less than 3 dB power variation have been obtained."
"Antennas having any mean surface and any prescribed feeder and radiation pattern can be experimentally obtained by the extension of the holographic technique to the microwave field. An experiment is described, based on the simple case of a plane antenna. Different types of microwave holograms, which constitute the synthesized antenna, have been tested."
"Campbell's theorems on the first and second order moments are extended to shot processes that are generated by Poisson processes of time-varying parameter. The covariance function of the limiting Gaussian process is derived and illustrated by a simple example."
"Under suitable loading conditions, the injection of low-power RF signals is able to trigger self-sustaining coherent Gunn oscillations in GaAs samples. Experimentally, RF triggering was achieved by injected signals as weak as 48 dB below the output power. The triggering mechanism is briefly discussed."
"An application of the Laplace transform method of Ogata to the solution of the uniform distributed network analysis problem is described."
"Some bonds are established between values of the auto-correlation function of a signal and some parameters of the corresponding power spectrum, and vice versa. These relations are then detailed for band-limited signals, and some expressions for a rough evaluation of the signal bandwidth are deduced."
"Suppression of Gunn oscillations in thin-film Gunn diodes by a two-dimensional effect is described theoretically and experimentally. Experiments show that Gunn oscillations do not occur in diodes whose nt product is less than 1.1 × 1011(cm-2), where t is the film thickness. This stabilized sample is useful for amplifiers."
"The intervalley transfer in the Gunn effect is investigated from the viewpoint of the total electron number conservation and the scattering balance. Application is made to refine the Gunn domain dynamics model of McCumber and Chynoweth on the basis of Butcher and Fawcett's theory."
"Collin's synthesis of the equal ripple transmission line is shown to be computationally identical with Klopfenstein's synthesis. A simple computer program for computing impedance versus length of a tapered line is given, based on Collin's work."
"Optimal continuous linear feature extraction for the binary Gaussian pattern recognition or detection problem necessitates finding the double orthogonal expansion of the observable random process under hypothesis Hi, i = 1, 2. State variable techniques are utilized here to yield efficient computer-implementable procedures for obtaining the double orthogonal expansion."
"The relationship between current crowding and device failure in the high speed saturating epitaxial transistor switch is discussed. Agreement between theory and practice is demonstrated, using a composite large area device comprising an array of small area transistors."
"A calculation has been made of the HF admittance of n-v-n SCLC devices by a simple method that takes into account the thermally generated free carriers in the central bulk region. The assumption made is that the thermal carrier density is relatively small such that the principal dc properties of the SCLC device still prevail. The calculated results indicate that the effect of the thermal free carriers is to reduce the oscillatory nature of the device HF admittance components."
"This letter enlarges on an earlier suggestion that the synthetic aperture of a moving, coherent (side-looking) radar (or sonar) could be replaced by a stationary, \"hologram\" form of receiving array."
"The purpose of this letter is to establish that the general solution of the telegraphists' equation for any nonautonomic line is uniquely given by V = [f(x)]2[A + B ∫ dx/{f(x)}3], A and B being boundary constant, if and only if the propagation factor Γ(x) of the line may be expressible as Γ(x) = √2f''(x)/f(x) where the primes denote derivatives with respect to the distance variable x, and f(x) is any arbitrary function of x characterizing the distributing of nonuniformity of per-unit-length series impedance Z(x) = Z0f(x), Z0being a constant for impedence."
"A two-parameter oscillator equation is obtained from the inverse tangent approximation to the amplifier function. The equation accounts for the exponential wave shape of relaxation oscillations, which cannot be explained by van der Pol's equation."
"An approximate relation is obtained between the cutoff frequency and the geometry for dielectric ridge waveguide. This relation suggests that the cutoff frequency of rutile slab loaded rectangular waveguide will be substantially raised if the slab height does not exactly equal the waveguide height."
"A simplified technique for synthesizing transfer-function matrices having multiple poles is presented. While the resulting systems are not always irreducible, the algorithm is easily applied, and serves as an efficient preliminary step in synthesizing minimal systems."
"A power conservation principle for electromagnetic fields in the presence of moving boundaries is stated and applied to an example which illustrates its usefulness. The present interpretation of power conservation is seen to differ from that given earlier by Pauli."
"The cost analysis of Teichmann is extended to include frequency dependent and diversity dependent rain losses. A Bayes strategy of minimizing expected satellite system cost per information bit then suggests that frequencies at or above K band can economically be considered."
"Construction details are described and illustrated for fabrication of a sliding short for use in precision transmission lines. The reflection coefficient of the short when used in GR series 900 transmission line was 0.996. The short is positioned with a micrometer and return-spring arrangement. The connection between the sliding element and the transmission line is believed to be unique and yields very low losses."
"The high-field domain width is one of the most important parameters for bulk oscillators due to the Gunn effect. The observation of the high-field domain width is carried out by applying a sudden step of voltage to a long sample, when a domain is freely propagating."
"High efficiency operations up to 15 percent were obtained on a pulse basis for Gunn oscillators whose lengths were comparable to the domain widths. In a purely resistive circuit, these Gunn oscillators were found to be tunable over a fairly wide frequency range by changing the applied voltage."
"The microwave emission from InSb was measured at 1 GHz. It was observed that the threshold of the emission and the emission itself are dependent on the orientation of the crystal. The emission saturates at a magnetic field strength between 3.5 and 6 kG and an electric field intensity of more than 150 V/cm. All experiments were carried out at 77°K."
"In a steady-state galvanomagnetic effect involving two-carrier ambipolar conduction, isotropic in the plane of conduction, the net electric current density I and the ambipolar current density of electron-hole pairs Ie-1are simply coupled if I, I, and the magnetic induction B are orthogonal. The coupled equations are derived."
"Three theorems relating the Poisson and Laplace transforms of functions are presented. These theorems are of use in certain applications. Proofs are given."
"Szász's theorem is extended to the exponential representation of random signals. It is shown that for the class of random processes with square integrable autocorrelation functions R(t, τ), the set {eskt} is complete if and only if this set satisfies Szász's condition. The result also holds for the class of random processes having absolutely integrable R(t, t)."
"A solid state pulsed X-band source (crystal oscillator-multiplier type) yielding low transient phase distortion and high on/off ratio is described. Design tradeoffs are discussed, and it is shown that placing the RF switch before the last frequency multiplier is a suitable compromise design. Low switch VSWR and good bias stability in the switched stages are necessary for satisfactory transient phase performance."
"Published results on spectra of square-wave FM, which have recently been criticized by Schumer, are reaffirmed."
"A simple relationship between the voltage and current reflection coefficient of a generalized exponential transmission line is obtained. It is shown that the reflection coefficient for the current is not the negative of the reflection coefficient for the voltage as is the case with a uniform transmission line."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"Experimental confirmation is reported of the theoretically predicted two-stream interactions (for circularly symmetric modes, n=0) between 1) the \"fast cyclotron wave\" of the slower beam and the \"slow space-charge wave\" of the faster beam; and between 2) the \"fast space-charge wave\" of the slower beam and the \"slow space-charge wave\" of the faster beam. The experiments were carried out at S-band. In the case of \"cyclotron wave\"-\"space-charge wave\" interaction, an electronic gain of 10 dB was measured. This double-stream interaction mode has not previously been observed. It affords the possibility of fast-wave coupling, by use of a nonuniform magnetic field along the tube, which offers size advantages at millimeter wavelengths. In the case of \"space-charge wave\"-\"space-charge wave\" interaction, the maximum electronic gain measured was 17 dB. In seeking interactions for n = ± 1 modes, none were found, due primarily to opposite polarizations, hence orthogonality, of the waves involved."
"The sources of FM noise modulation in two-cavity klystron oscillators have been studied in detail. The theoretical effects upon FM of RF beam current noise and the bunching parameter are shown to be in agreement with experimental observations. The importance of other FM noise sources is discussed."
"An experimental yoke consisting of four sets of independently excited coils has been made. The field distribution of the experimental yoke can be controlled to approximate the theoretically calculated ideal fields, which produce minimum aberrations for certain specified working distances, field coverage, and beam convergence angle. The aberrations that would be produced by the experimental yoke are calculated and compared with those of the ideal field."
"The current response of a long GaAs Gunn diode is observed following a step function of voltage applied while a domain is in transit. The excess domain voltage, the apparent charge of one sign stored on the domain, and the peak field in the domain are measured using this technique. These measurements are compared with other results obtained from more direct, high resolution capacitive probe measurements made on oscillating GaAs specimens. Both sets of measurements are compared with the predictions of \"invariant domain\" calculations. The measured domain voltages are found to be higher than predicted by theory. The differential capacity associated with a domain is about half that predicted by the simple zero diffusion model. Reasons for these results are advanced."
"In designing the optimum photosensing device for use in the detection of printed material in a reading aid, experimental evidence points out that the device should have a spectral response which matches that of the human eye. It is demonstrated theoretically that for a given set of base-region recombinative properties, there is an optimum base-collector junction depth for achieving the desired visible region sensitivity. In addition, by truncating the collector region with an epitaxial collector-substrate junction, the desired insensitivity to near-infrared can be achieved. For the recombinative properties typical of the experimental planar devices fabricated in the Integrated Circuits Laboratory at Stanford University, it is theoretically shown and experimentally verified that the optimum base-collector and epitaxial junction depths are nominally 2µ and 8µ, respectively. Accomplishment of this in silicon, which was one of the basic objectives of the research, facilitates monolithic integration of the optimum photosensor with the remainder of the reading aid circuitry."
"Photocathode degradation in camera tubes may result from high current density operation of the photoemissive thin film. Some aspects of the various mechanisms causing loss in sensitivity and shift in spectral response are discussed. Among these are positive ion bombardment of the film, localized heating of the photosensitive film, and solid-state ion transfer from the supporting substrate into the photosensitive film. The types of photoemissive films studied are tin oxide undercoated S-11, S-20, modified S-1, and high temperature bi-alkali photocathodes."
"This correspondence describes an apparent instability observed in TWT (traveling-wave tube) computer calculations when a lumped attenuator was included. The instability was shown to be an interference pattern between the original wave and a wave traveling in the opposite direction. The latter wave was introduced by the computer to meet the boundary conditions."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"Experimental evidence that conventionally designed, uniform-period traveling-wave amplifiers are potentially highly efficient devices is presented. Experiments with a traveling-wave re-entrant cavity tube and with a two-helix tube show that substantial improvement is possible when the RF energy of the so-called beam of a saturated traveling-wave tube is used. Tests reported here on the two-helix tube realized efficiencies greater than 43 percent."
"A theoretical large- and small-signal analysis of the behavior of standing-wave-type distributed circuit klystrons, based on a confined flow model, is described. A two-cavity klystron with a π-mode double-gap distributed output circuit and a conventional single-gap input cavity was selected as a specific example for study. The field distribution for the experimental cavities was measured and a conversion efficiency of 52 percent was predicted. The effects of the output cavity position relative to the input cavity, the output cavity gap angle, and the space charge were analyzed theoretically. The theoretical results were compared with measurements made on a precision demountable klystron with identical beam and circuit parameters, but with a Brillouin-focused beam rather than a confined-flow beam. A load efficiency of 35 percent, a conversion efficiency of 42 percent, and small-signal gains up to 15 dB were measured. The corresponding figures for the conventional single-gap output circuit were 24 percent, 28.6 percent, and 9 dB. The measured effects of changes in the tube parameters were in general agreement with the theoretical predicted results. The study indicates that the π-mode double-gap cavity is a very practical output structure yielding high efficiency with a very short interaction length. It should prove useful in medium- and high-power klystrons."
"A parabolic potential distribution is assumed in order to study the static properties of the crossed-field potential minimum. The half-Maxwellian normal velocity distribution function and the full-Maxwellian transverse velocity distribution function are integrated over the initial velocity plane with the proper boundary conditions to find an expression for the ratio of beam current to emission current. For conditions satisfying most practical cases, this current-sorting expression is reduced to a very simple form. Using the current-sorting equation together with the expression which relates the potential minimum position to the minimum potential for zero magnetic field, an approximate method of determining the potential-minimum parameters is devised. The values obtained in this manner agree closely with the results obtained by other more exact (and more complicated) numerical methods."
"The two-dimensional electronic behavior of the crossed-field potential minimum is analyzed by means of a feedback network which provides a vehicle for understanding the complex phenomena, while allowing quantitatively accurate numerical calculations. The solutions, limited to the low-frequency range where transit time may be neglected, Show shot-noise smoothing as a function of magnetic field and cathode length. For low magnetic fields and short cathodes, the smoothing approaches the results of the North theory for zero magnetic field. It is also shown that if the cathode length is greater than about 11 normalized (Kino) units or 0.55 of the cycloid length for the existing field conditions, an initial perturbation of the emission current will lead to growing fluctuations of the beam current. This instability is considered to be responsible for the observation, in some crossed-field tubes, that the output noise increases when the cathode is heated sufficiently to form a potential minimum in front of the cathode. This criterion for the existence of excess noise is applied to all the experiments for which sufficient data have been published and no disagreement is found."
"A generalized steady-state nonlinear electron-wave interaction theory is developed for the crossed-field distributed-emission or emitting-sole amplifier. The system equations are non-linear integro-differential equations, developed from the one-dimensional equivalent transmission-line equation, the Lorentz force equation, the continuity equation, and Poisson's equation. The effects of dc, RF and space-charge forces are taken into account, and secondary emission from the sole electrode is included in the theory. Digital computer solutions indicate a gain threshold with RF drive, and that the inclusion of space-charge forces and secondary emission enhances the gain. A linearly decreasing magnetic field near the output also increases the gain. Approximate solutions based on a hard-kernel-bunch (HKB) model are shown to give excellent agreement with the computer solutions."
"Clean-up data taken under controlled conditions applicable to TR tubes are presented for hydrogen in quartz, 7070 glass, copper, nickel, molybdenum, and kovar. The data are related to practical TR discharges where clean-up may take place under several gas-solid conditions. The theoretical and experimental results show that the square-root clean-up rate varies directly with pulse width, pulse repetition rate, and the square root of peak power. A technique is presented for predicting lifetime on the basis of initial measurements. It is also found that the most important form of clean-up for discharges in ammonia and water vapor is that of hydrogen in kovar where the hydrogen is generated by dissociation."
"A new three-terminal GaAs device has been developed and its switching characteristics investigated. The third ohmic contact of the device is located on a side surface near the cathode of a conventional two-terminal long n-type GaAs oscillator. High-speed switching of oscillation, with turn-on and turnoff times of one nanosecond, has been successfully obtained by applying single short triggering pulses or combined positive and negative pulses between the third contact and the cathode, using a fixed bias voltage between the cathode and the anode. The triggered oscillation can be sustained after the triggering pulse is removed if the bias voltage is above the minimum sustaining voltage of oscillation, which is about 80 to 90 percent of the threshold value. This paper will briefly review the triggering conditions of the two-terminal oscillator devices and present various current waveforms of triggered oscillations obtained with the three-terminal devices. Some correlations between the sustaining voltage of oscillation and the triggering voltage will be discussed. This device could be used as high-speed switching and memory elements in logic circuits."
"The operation of a field effect transistor (FET) having a plane circular geometry is analyzed. By taking limits, the solution for a plane rectangular geometry is obtained. The carrier mobility is assumed to vary asE(-1/n), whereEis the drift field andnan experimentally determined number depending on the drift field. Assuming the gradual approximation to hold, the device characteristics are established analytically and graphically. Operation in the hypercritical range decreases the device sensitivity to geometric factors and certain material constants. It concentrates the channel resistance toward the drain. The dynamic conductance is shown to be a strong function of the drift-field range and of the drain voltage, particularly in the high field ranges and for low drain voltages. The optimum drift-field range giving the highest slope and frequency limit depends on the geometry. The slope, maximum for zero bias for all ranges, is a strong function of the bias. The operational frequency limit is shown to be proportional toP(n-1/3n-1), wherePis the power handling capacity per unit length. For practical devices, this limit is 10 to 15 times less than the highest limit obtainable based on circuit considerations alone. The present work has confirmed the findings of previous investigations and has extended the results to cover new geometrical configurations and wider operating ranges. It provides data for device optimization and may, therefore, be of use to designers."
"This paper deals with the second breakdown of transistors with epitaxial collector, epitaxial base, and diffused emitter. Transistors were fabricated with base width WBin the range of 2 to 18 µ and resistivity in the range of 0.1 to 10 ohm . cm. The optimum values of the resistivity and the thickness of these regions were calculated by computer techniques. The devices were mounted onto a TO-63 header and the base and the emitter leads were bonded onto the device ultrasonically. The electrical characteristics, including the frequency response ftand secondary breakdownS/Bcapability, were tested. For the measurement of second breakdown current IM, forward bias condition was used. It was found that for fixed collector and emitter parameters, IMwas controlled by the product of base resistivity ρBand base width WB. The value of IMwas found to increase with\\rho_{B}W_{B}. However, for a specified device characteristic, an optimum value of\\rho_{B}W_{B}was found to exist. For transistors withV_{CEO} =150volts,f_{t}=20mHz andh_{FE}=20, the optimum value of\\rho_{B}W_{B}was found to be 6 × 10-4ohm . cm2."
"Previously, photocells using the lateral photoeffect for determining the direction to a light source within a small angle (one pair of contacts), or a small solid angle (two pairs of contacts), have been described. Here, a further development of the lateral photocell, in this case using spherical geometry and three pairs of contacts, is presented. This photocell allows measurement of the direction to a light source over nearly the entire 4φ solid angle. Because of the absence of p-n junction edges, distortion caused by edge effects is minimized. The cell does not need a lens system, as do planar lateral photocells, but without it the sensitivity is reduced."
"On the basis of the extended Ebers-Moll model of the multijunction transistor, theV-Irelationships of the double-emitter transistor switch are given, and the characteristic parameters are calculated."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"A small-signal analysis is made on the Read-type avalanche transit time diode in which both holes and electrons and differing ionization rates for holes and electrons are considered in a silicon diode. The avalanche region is assumed to be an unsymmetric abrupt junction in which the ionization coefficients vary with the distance through their exponential dependence on the field in the avalanche region. Solutions for the ionization integral are given in the dc case. The time-varying terms are introduced as small-signal perturbations on the dc case and solutions for the ionization integral are again obtained and expressed as a Fourier series. The coefficients of the series appear in the expressions for the admittance. This approach provides simple analytical solutions for the Read diode admittance. Also, direct evaluation of the Fourier coefficients is given in terms of the diode's breakdown voltage and other known parameters. An equivalent circuit for the Read diode is developed. Over a substantial frequency but for small transit angles of the drift region, it consists of a frequency independent negative conductance, inductance, and capacitance. The diode's spreading resistance is in series with these parallel elements. The circuit agrees with the measurements of Josenhans and Misawa. On the basis of the small-signal avalanche analysis the ultimate oscillator efficiency is estimated to be about 26 percent."
"A method of evaluation of majority carrier field-effect mobilities in surface space charge regions is described. This method is also adapted for the determination of chargeable (fast) surface state distribution in the gap. Experimental results obtained with both p- and n-type thermally oxidized silicon samples are presented. In these samples, the surface state density was found to be less than 1010electronic states/cm2and thus were well suited for the evaluation of effective surface mobility by the dc field-effect measurements. The experimental mobilities are compared with those predicted by the theory of Greene et al. It was found that at flatband and at weak surface accumulation, measured values were lower than those theoretically predicted. For the case of strong surface accumulation, the opposite was true."
"Surface effects of nuclear reactor irradiation are separated from bulk effects, and their relative importance compared. It is shown that the rates of change of surface recombination velocity and lifetime with dose are such that at high doses surface effects have an insignificant influence onp-njunction recombination-generation currents compared to bulk effects. In particular, the degradation of current gain at low collector currents in reactor irradiated bipolar transistors is shown to be the result of increased recombination in the bulk rather than at the surface of the emitter-base depletion region, in contrast with the case of ionizing radiation alone."
"The built-in voltage of a junction can be calculated theoretically and determined experimentally from capacitance measurements. The difference that is always found between these two values cannot be completely interpreted by taking into account the contribution to the capacitance of the free carriers. The remaining difference can be explained by assuming the existence of interface states in the vicinity of the junction. Formulas for the depletion-layer capacitance of abrupt and linearly graded junctions with interface states are derived. Experimental data are interpreted in relation to this model."
"Deposited electrodes with periodic geometries are beginning to attract attention in microwave integrated circuitry. In many cases where the interaction with the substrate materials is important, the grounded base may be sufficiently distant to be insignificant or absent altogether. In this paper, the equipotential surfaces and flux lines of alternately charged coplanar parallel strips most often encountered in these cases are determined with the aid of a sequence of conformal mappings. The potential and the electric field intensity along the planes of symmetry are also evaluated. The capacitance and characteristic impedance of the structure are obtained in terms of structural parameters."
"A theoretical analysis demonstrates that the relationship between IDand VDSfor one value of VGSis sufficient to completely describe the device behavior for any channel impurity profile. A simple graphical procedure is given to generate a complete set of characteristics from the results at one value of VGS. Measurements on ann-channel FET are given to support the theoretical conclusion and to demonstrate the graphical technique."
"Postfabrication heat treatments in dry helium are shown to produce greater than tenfold improvement in the range of adaptability of the transfer characteristics of adaptive thin-film (Te or CdSe) resistors and transistors. Improved device performance is attributed to removal of water vapor from the ferroelectric (TGS) material."
"The results of an experimental investigation of the saturation power level of GaAs amplifiers are reported. It is found that there is an optimum range of applied voltages and electron density-length products to achieve the maximum saturation power. The largest saturation effciency observed was 4 percent."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"A developmental imaging system has been constructed as part of a long-term program to develop a high quality, high performance, all solid-state television camera for NASA. The purpose of the developmental system is to provide a test and demonstration vehicle for solid-state mosaics developed on the program and to obtain limited operational information in a nonlaboratory environment. The system, loosely packaged in an 8½-by-8½-by-10 inch volume including display sweep generator circuits, utilizes commercially available integrated circuit logic cards, discrete FET sampling switches, and a 100-by-128 element mosaic developed on the program. The \"camera\" provides a dynamic range of approximately five to seven shades of gray and operates on 6 volts at variable frame rates between 6 and 60 frames per second at light levels of 0.1 to 1 foot-candle, respectively. As of March, 1968, the system had been in operation for approximately one year without failure. This imaging system exhibits frame integration sensitivity due to storage of light-generated charge carriers in each phototransistor's collector-base depletion layer during the periods between its readout sampling. Fabrication of the sensor matrix and mechanization of the interrogation system for image readout from the mosaic are described. Considerations affecting imaging resolution, spectral response, responsivity dynamic range, and quantum efficiency are discussed."
"Development of linear and area arrays of silicon photodetectors operating in a photon flux integration mode is described. This mode of operation, which permits the trade of gain for bandwidth, is reviewed. It is possible to obtain full frame storage at commercial TV frame rates from area arrays of silicon phototransistors. Practical integrated structures of both diode and transistor arrays will be shown, and a method of coincidence sampling of an area array of photodetectors, which eliminates the need for isolation by the use of integrated MOST AND gates in the detector array, is described. This structure provides the following advantages: 1) High sensitivity and broad spectral response--photons absorbed far below the surface are not lost because of isolation barriers. 2) Reduced cross modulation. 3) A single video output terminal is required, thus avoiding the need to switch externally a large number of video channels to a common load, as is the case where isolation of photoelements is employed."
"The basic principle of operation of each bit in a matrix of image detectors is described, together with the derivation of appropriate operating formulas. The necessary circuitry to make a functional two-dimensional array is also described, including the scanning circuitry integrally constructed with the photodetector matrix. The necessary design considerations for operation of the matrix are discussed in the context of the currently operating 10-by-10 array. Extension of the principles to larger arrays is outlined in the two modes of array scanning considered, with special reference to spatial noise problems. The paper concludes with reference to other applications of the basic principle, such as card reading."
"Monolithic detector mosaics were constructed for image sensing at wavelengths from three to 30 µm. The mosaics use impurity photoconduction in silicon to sense infrared radiation. Operation in the 25 to 40°K temperature range is obtained with closed-cycle cooling. Photosensor elements, spaced on 32 mil centers, are formed by solid-state diffusion, and a junction diode is constructed in series with each photoresistor to reduce crosstalk. The integrated 30-by-30 mosaics have crossedX-Yelectrodes for direct-wire readout of picture elements. Performance of individual elements is described. At 25°K, a detectivity of 1 × 108cm Hz1/2/W per element is found using 10.6 µm CO2laser radiation. The quantum efficiency at 10.6 µm is about 7 percent, and the response time is observed to be less than 0.2 µs. Uniformity and crosstalk data on prototype arrays are presented, and the integration of these arrays with cryogenic amplifier and scanning circuits is discussed."
"Integrated circuits for scanning a photosensitive array at standard television scan rates have been fabricated by evaporated thin-film techniques. These include: 1) A 264-stage parallel-output complementary shift register with a driver stage at each output. 2) A 256-output transistor decoder with video coupling circuits for scanning an array with line storage. A single line of 256 photoconductordiode elements has been included on the same substrate with the decoder. The complementary shift register has been demonstrated to operate at clock frequencies up to 100 kHz. The integrated decoder and line sensor, when driven by two external 16-stage shift registers, has been operated successfully with line storage at frequencies up to 4.8 MHz."
"AnEL-PCimage converter has been designed to convert the near-IR radiation obtained from light-emitting semiconductor diodes into visible radiation. In addition to wavelength conversion, a quantum gain was also obtained. High contrast ratios are shown to be dependent upon photoconductor capacitance. Concentric, noncoplanar electrode structures have been utilized to achieve photoconductor capacitance values several orders of magnitude smaller than those of a correspondingELelement. Data are shown describing the intensifier operation as a function of applied voltage and frequency. The input-output transfer function shows operation over three orders of magnitude of input intensity. Peak optical gains of 150 are reported."
"Silicon phototransistors operating in the integration mode have been used in light detection and imaging systems. A solid-state imaging system employing a monolithic mosaic of 12 800n-p-nphototransistors has been developed. An analysis of the integration mode of operation of a silicon phototransistor is presented. The analysis employs a simplified equivalent circuit of a phototransistor. Three different cases are analyzed; each case differs in that the length of the readout cycle is changed. The solution to all three cases gives an output voltage directly proportional to the ratio of light plus leakage generated charge to the base-collector junction depletion layer capacitance. Analysis of phototransistor operation in a mosaic where interactions with the other phototransistors in the array are accounted for is presented. Discussion concerning the parasitic capacitances due to readout switches is given for the particular mosaic design employed."
"Phototransistor performance is considered for the charge storage mode, in which the phototransistor is briefly pulsed and then permitted to remain with both junctions reverse-biased while in the presence of illumination. The charge delivered with the next pulse is proportional to the integral of light received since the last pulse. A lumped model of the transistor, amended here to account for photogeneration, is presented which employs the relative excess densities of minority carriers as the terminal variables. By using the relative excess densities as variables, both the drift and diffusion components of current transported through a nonuniformly doped base region may be represented by a single element. In addition, all of the elements in the model are measured in electrical units, which allows simple use of the model without bringing in the detailed physics unless desired. Simple experimental measurements are outlined by which parameter values are determined, and the results for a particular device are presented. Using the model, a complete analysis of phototransistor operation in the charge storage mode is presented. The equations derived in the analysis are solved on a computer using the measured values of transistor parameters. The peak output voltage is predicted as a function of the light-generated current, along with the time response of the base-emitter and output voltages. The precise correspondence of the computed and measured results verifies the accuracy of both the model and the analysis."
"Measurements are made on linear and area arrays of phototransistors operating in the steady-state and pulsed (integration) modes of operation. Description of the experimental setup is given. A simplified analysis of the pulsed mode of operation is presented. The heart of the study is concerned with measuring parameters critical to pulsed mode performance. The effects of temperature, readout voltage level, integration time, and device configuration on sensor operation are depicted. Increased leakage with temperature is found to change the proportionality constant between output and integration time. Both the saturation level and the dark response show a direct dependence on readout voltage. Varying the frame time (i.e., the integration time) is shown to be equivalent to changing the aperture setting of the optical system used to focus images onto the sensor. The relation between the steady-state photocurrent and the pulsed mode output has been established and is in agreement with analyses of the integration mode. The effects of collector pulse amplitude and temperature were found to match the relations derived from an extended analysis. An integration rate is extrapolated from the data. Images produced by a mechanically scanned line sensor and an area array are shown."
"Various approaches to solid-state imaging systems are summarized, and characteristic features reviewed. The paper assumes some familiarity with the work reported in preceding papers and attempts to relate the generalized tradeoffs between the various approaches. It is concluded that the capability has been developed to realize limited performance solid-state imaging systems, but that considerable additional development work is needed to realize high quality, high performance solid-state imaging."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"A lumped model is derived for photodiodes and phototransistors from which steady-state spectral properties, such as quantum efficiency, can be determined. The model is derived in a manner such that its utility extends to regions of any length ω that is, there is no\\omega/L\\ll1restriction, whereLrepresents the minority-carrier diffusion length in the region. The validity of the resulting model is demonstrated by showing that the lumped model predicts the empirically measured quantum efficiency of planar photodiodes to within 10 percent."
"This paper reports the results of precision microwave standing-wave measurements using a superheterodyne technique from 4 to 11 GHz on the internal parasitics of tunnel-diodes terminating a coaxial-line. Because of past conflicting conjectures as to the frequency dependence of the series resistance, particular attention has been paid to its accurate evaluation. Errors due to transmission-line attenuation and mount discontinuities have been explicitly eliminated from the measured results. The frequency invariance of the series inductance and junction capacitance is verified; but a new variation of series resistance with frequency is proposed of the formr=T_{dc}+(af)^{2}, in accordance with the experimental results. The effect of this variation on the resistive cutoff frequency is discussed and a comparison is made With the relevant results of other researchers."
"A tractable and more physically realistic dispersion relationship for the avalanche diode than previously available has been developed, This includes terms relating to the differences in hole and electron velocities and ionization coefficients. Analysis of this modified dispersion relation indicates new ranges for instabilities. Plots for selected cases are presented."
"Most semiconductor devices today have a costly vacuum-tight encapsulation that provides a microenvironment for high reliability and electrical connections to the circuit in which it is used. A junction seal consisting of a metal-insulator-silicon (MIS) system of materials has been developed to replace the vacuum-tight encapsulation. The MIS junction seal, consisting of platinum silicide-titanium-platinum-gold contacts and a Silicon nitride overcoat, provides the necessary encapsulation for high reliability. Electrical and mechanical connections are provided by gold beam-deads. During fabrication, the contact windows are opened in the deposited silicon nitride layer either by etching with boiling phosphoric acid using SiO2as a mask or by anodically converting the silicon nitride in the windows to a soluble oxide. The multilayer contact is then applied to complete the junction seal. The initial characteristics of sealed-junction transistors fabricated by the above methods were similar to those of the unsealed transistors. The reliability of the sealed-junction transistors determined by accelerated aging after an intentional sodium contaminafion of 1017atoms/cm2surpassed that of the standard silicon planar transistors sealed in a vacuum-tight enclosure."
"The extensive literature on the nonlinear behavior of semiconductor devices is reviewed. Over and above what is offered in the literature, the general theory of nonlinear distortion is presented in a clear and easily understood manner. Formulas derive for several of the more important kinds of distortion are readily applicable to any nonlinear transfer characteristic describing frequency-independent impedances. simplified formulas for small-signal levels reveal the relationships between the nonlinear distortions of the same order. For each order, the dependence of the distortions on the operating point of the device is described by a universal fuction. The small-signal approximations are used to investigate the non-linear distortion produced in semiconductor diodes. The universal functions for the Second-, third-, and fourth-order distortions are calculated and graphically presented. Distortion reduction is briefly considered with emphasis on counterphase, modulation. This method substantially reduces the cross modulation in the input circuit of transistor without noticeable loss in amplification."
"Measurements of transistor noise at high injection levels are compared with the predictions made by the low-level injection theory, The noise is represented by an emf eein series with the emitter and a current generator i in parallel with the collector: eeis split into a part ee' fully correlated withiand a part ee\" uncorrelated withi. The measured values of\\bar{i^{2}}usually agree very well with theory, even at high currents; this indicates that the low-level injection theory of\\bar{i^{2}}remains correct at high injection levels. The measurements of\\bar{e_{e}^{\"2}, though inaccurate, seem to indicate that the predictions made by the low-level injection theory are approximately correct at high injection levels. The measurements of the cross correlation\\bar{e_{e}i^{*}}indicate a large discrepancy with the low-level injection theory. The theory predicts that\\bar{e_{e}i^{*}}is quite small at low frequency and is mainly imaginary at high frequencies. The measurements indicate that\\bar{e_{e}i^{*}}is quite large at low frequencies and that its real part is larger than the imaginary part at high frequencies. The fact that\\bar{e_{e}i^{2}}varies as\\sqrt{I_{E}}, so that it approaches zero at low currents, indicates that it is a high-level injection effect."
"Noise data are presented for various electron multiplication methods used in imaging devices. It is shown that the noise of these devices can always be represented in the same manner and that it can be described by a noise deterioration factor Γ, which is the ratio of the output noise over the multiplied input noise. In the transmission secondary electron multiplier, Γ decreases with increasing primary energy and with increasing Collector voltage in such a manner that Γ is a universal function of the current multiplication factor δ part of this may be due to electron losses in the aluminum backing, but the secondary emission multiplication also contributes. In the image intensifier multiplier, Γ decreases with increasing primary energy and shows comparable behavior to the first multiplication method. The gain here is frequency dependent because of the response of the phosphor. In the channel multiplier, the dc gainI_{s}/I_{p}decreases with increasing Ip, so that the device is nonlinear. One must then distinguish between \"apparent', noise deterioration factor Γ' and the true deterioration factor Γ. It is found that Γ' < Γ, explaining the remarkably low value of Γ'(≃1.4) found in these devices."
"The signal-to-noise ratio in the video output from a television camera tube equals the signal-to-noise ratio in the optical exposure divided by the product of the noise factors for each of the tube'S components. The noise factor of each component is determined by the amount by which the component increases the rms fluctuation in the number of quanta representing a picture element. The noise factor of the components (e.g., image section photoconductor, electron multiplier, low-velocity scanning beam) is calculated for a variety of components. The component noise factor equations show that: 1) the noise factor of photon-to-electron converters is primarily determined by their quantum efficiency, i.e., by the number of electrons produced per photon, and 2) the noise factor of readout processes decreases as the signal voltage on the target increases, and increases with an increase in energy spread of the reading beam for low-velocity read-out, or of the secondary electrons for high-veloicty readout."
"A cold-cathode gas-discharge tube, having an easily vaporizable solid cathode such as cadmium and a gas filling, has been studied as a pulse modulator. The electrical performance of the device has been satisfactory, but the life is limited by gas clean-up."
"Experimental studies on the radio-frequency emission-- from InSb under the influence of electric and magnetic fields in the range of 10 MHz to 10 GHz, including the effect of temperature variations around 77° K, are presented. Indications of very weak emission for a narrow range of electric fields in the absence of a magnetic field are observed."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"With a realistic and accurate model and the use of numerical techniques to solve the diode equations, it is shown that certain p+-n-n+diodes exhibit a static negative resistance that is due to space-charge effects. The magnitude of this resistance and the value of current density at which negative resistance appears depend on several device parameters. The dependence of the diode characteristics on these device parameters is presented for several examples. The characteristics of these devices at high frequencies are also discussed, and the possibility of high-powers high-efficiency operation as an oscillator is briefly treated."
"The local dc current densityj(x)in avalanche microwave oscillators is a function of the local breakdown voltageV_{b}(x), which in turn depends on local temperatureT(x)and fieldE(x). Recent progress in junction fabrication has led to very uniform field distributions such that local temperature variations of the order of a few degrees are no longer negligible, calculations ofT(x)for various diode configurations show that the spherical heat flow near the diode edge causes considerable variations ofT(x). The resulting variations inj(x)are so significant even in the case of a reasonably ideal mounting (flip-chip mesa on a copper substrate) that they will affect the oscillator performance with respect to efficiency and oscillator noise. The dynamic thermal properties are discussed in terms of a simplified oscillator model consisting of two parallel subdiodes with different but uniform current densities. Nonuniform breakdown combined with an internal current redistribution resulting from nonuniform internal heating causes AM and FM modulation and is also responsible for the often observed delayed onset of microwave oscillations under pulsed conditions."
"Measurements of apparent threshold voltages for conduction of bothn-p-nandp-n-pMOS-"
"One important route to higher functional densities for LSI is through consolidation of more components within a given region. This paper repots on studies of integrated \"latch\" devices made by incorporating transistor flip-flops within a single isolation island and using the bulk resistivity of the epitaxial layer for resistive elements. Although most components are distinguishable, complex interaction makes a device approach to design and evaluation the most applicable technique. Principles of design and optimization are approached by a point-by-point analogy with the p-n-p-n switch. Comparable V-I plots are used to study effects of various parameters and geometries on stability and noise sensitivity. It is shown that a minimum bulk resistivity is required for positive latch-up at a given current and that \"probe\" contacts and buried layers at the output transistor also have a profound effect. Supporting experimental data are presented on switching characteristics as well. Several configurations have been fabricated and studied, with near counterparts in direct coupled as well as resistor, diode, transistor, and emitter-follower coupled circuits, plus several means of triggering them. Some counter applications will be described that are greatly simplified through this approach."
"A theoretical investigation of the validity of Langmuir's expression for the limiting current density in a focused electron beam when space-charge forces are significant was carried out by computing the performance of a series of simple electron tubes, each consisting of a Pierce gun coupled by a thin lens to an equipotential drift space. The analyses show that, while the cathode current density and the peak current density in the spot are related, they are not directly proportional as stated in Langmuir's expression which, therefore, does not give an accurate prediction of the current density that can be obtained in the spot. The dimensions of the tubes were chosen such that this conclusion is also valid in the case of television picture tubes. It is also shown that thermal velocities have only a minor influence on the lens strengths required to focus beams, and that the focused spots havea Gaussian distribution of current density even though the emission density in a Pierce gun is uniform."
"A multiple-large-signal theory for traveling-wave tubes (TWT's) is developed. The equations associated with the growth of the signal waves along the length of the tube are integrated by means of digital computation methods. The assumptions made during the theoretical formulation are more restrictive than those made by El-Shandwily in his multiple-large-signal theory, however, by restricting the generality of the theory judiciously, the computer time normally required to make calculations of this type is substantially reduced, Calculations have been presented for only a few special cases. Computed results are presented here for the growth of up to 12 input signals and some of the more imporant intermodulation products. Agreement between theoretical predictions and experimental results are shown for the case of two input signals. In addition some important empirical relations are developed which can be used to approximately predict the large signal performance of a TWT and to further reduce the computer time."
"Plasma properties and characteristics that are of interest to high-current switching devices have been investigated. Peak pulse currents up to 80 000 amperes have been used to generate dense plasmas in linear glass-metal diodes. Two tube diameters, 3 and 7.5 inches, have been studied. In the case of the 3-inch, diameter diode, the electrode separation was varied from 10.6 to 25.1 cm. Hydrogen gas was studied in the pressure range from 0.5 to 40 torr. Electron densities and temperatures have been determined using spectroscopic techniques. Densities were found to be in the 1016to 1017cm-3range. Plasma resistivities have been datermined from a knowledge of the density and temperature. The observed dependence of resistivity on current and pressure is discussed and the results are compared with resistivities obtained from tube-drop measurements. The effects of impurities and instabilities are also discussed."
"A series of backward-wave oscillators for the 50-to 300-GHz frequency range have been built for use as broad-band signal sources which are capable of continuous and rapid voltage tuning. It is the purpose of this correspondence to summarize the design and performance of these oscillators in order to provide a broad characterization of this class of device."
"This correspondence calculates the average yield\\bar{Y_{N}}forNmultiple devices as a function of the average yield (\\bar{Y_{1}}) of single devices assuming several simple forms of distribution function for slice yields. It shows that the usual calculation\\bar{Y_{N}}= (\\bar{Y_{1}})^{N}is too pessmistic by an appreciable factor even when no \"within slice\" correlation exists. Using an actual distribution of transistor slice yields, the (\\bar{Y_{1}})^{N}calculation is shown to give a yield which is a factor of 5 too low for groups of eight good devices."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"Applications of monolithic and hybrid semiconductor circuit technologies to microwaves are discussed from a semitechnical and economic viewpoint. Technical feasibility of performing nearly all functions through millimeter waves is foreseen. Economic success, however, is less tangible and depends mainly on two factors; the willingness of systems people to trade increased initial cost for greatly decreased maintenance cost and the magnitude of the requirements for electronically steered antennas. The author's estimates of the business potential are discussed."
"AnX-band mixer using GaAS Schottky barrier diodes with a thin-film 500-MHz IF preamplifier was developed using hybrid microwave integrated circuit techniques. The balanced mixer had filters to provide a short circuit at the image frequency. The entire mixer preamplifier occupied an area of only 0.38 square inches and had a noise figure of 6.7 dB which corresponded quite closely to the theoretical noise figure considering all losses. The thin-film IF amplifier alone had a 2.2-dB noise figure and the mixer IF amplifier coupling network had a loss of 0.4 dB."
"This paper describes the development of microwave lumped-element thin-film amplifiers. The basic design philosophy underlying lumped inductors and capacitors at microwave frequencies is reviewed, showing how Q's of 100 are achieved. A variety of tunable input, output, and interstage integrated lumped-element networks for transistor amplifiers were fabricated. The gain and efficiency of 2-GHz class-C operated transistors mounted in these circuits were comparable with the best performance achieved by the same transistors in less lossy coaxial circuits. The measured losses (1.2 dB) at 2 GHz were very close to those calculated using the design parameters. Single-stage amplifiers at 2 GHz achieved one watt of output power with 4 dB of gain. At somewhat lower power levels more than 6 dB of gain was achieved. The circuits allowed the operation of low-power level class-A amplifiers with over 13 dB of gain. Cascaded operation yielded more than 17 dB of gain with 0.8 watts of CW power. It is concluded that lumped elements can be fabricated by thin-film technology and will play an important role in microwave integrated circuits."
"Complete realization of the potentialities of hybrid microwave integrated circuits will require both semiconductor and ferrite elements. This paper presents performance data for several microstrip ferrite devices that can play an important role in the exploitation of microwave integrated circuits. Data on both fixed-field and latched microstrip junction circulators are given including a fixed-field circulator with less than 0.4- dB loss and greater than 20-dB isolation over the 6.5- to 9.3-GHz band. The characteristics of microstrip meander-line phasers are discussed, and a simple, rugged technique for fabricating single-crystal YIG devices by embedding the YIG element in the substrate is presented."
"This paper is intended as a review of developments which allow ferrite materials in a planar geometry to be used in the realization of magnetic devices which are compatible in form with other microwave integrated circuits. These devices include phase shifters (reciprocal and nonreciprocal), latching circulators, isolators, and phase and amplitude modulators. The application of some of these devices is demonstrated in the form of electronically steerable array antennas."
"AnS- toX-band frequency quadrupler was developed with a 4.0-dB conversion loss and 11-percent bandwidth using hybrid integrated microwave circuit techniques. The multiplier has a low-pass transforming filter on the input and a bandpass filter consisting of half-wavelength lines edge coupled over quarter wavelengths on the output. Design curves for the bandpass filter are given for ceramic microstrip. Two beam-lead varactors were used in the multiplier giving it an input power-handling capability of 3-watts peak power."
"A hybrid-integrated parametric amplifier has been fabricated in a microstrip transmission-line configuration. General design considerations and their implementation in a microstrip medium are discussed. The amplifier exhibited a power gain of 10 dB and 50-MHz half-power bandwidth with a noise figure of 2.0 dB. It was pumped atX-band frequency and required only 10 mW of pump power. The integrated pump source consisted of the transistor oscillator and a varactor quadrupler stage."
"The problem of wide bandwidth and flat in-band gain response for microwave transistor amplifiers has been reduced to the optimization of a number of important variables from computer prepared design charts. Through the general flexibility of the computer-generated data, a large variety of amplifier responses are possible - using distributed circuit matching networks. As experimental verification of the overall design procedure, single-stage and two-stage octave wide transistor amplifiers were fabricated on 1 inch by 1 inch and 1 inch by ½ inch 20 mil thick alumina, respectively. The experimental data gained from these units showed excellent correlation with the computer predicted response."
"An analytical program for calculating the field distribution about a microstrip transmission line bounded by a shielding wall is used to calculate the impedance, velocity, and attenuation parameters. The program input parameters are the dimensions of the strip and shielding wall and the relative dielectric constant of the substrate material. The field distribution about the strip is integrated to find the charge density on the strip and walls with and without the dielectric substrate. From these two calculations, the relative velocity and impedance can be calculated."
"Device requirements of a medium power Ku-band reflective phase shifter are reviewed indicating a requirement for a diode with a 4-Terrahertz cut-off frequency. Various structures are examined to test their suitability for integration and feasibility for meeting specifications. A \"pocket version\" of a surface oriented device design is chosen and described. It is shown to meet or exceed all electrical requirements while providing for compatibility with final integration into the circuit."
"GaAs has many desirable features that make it most useful for microwave and millimeter-wave integrated circuits. The process of selective epitaxial depositions of high purity single-crystal GaAs with various doping concentrations into semi-insulating GaAs substrates has been developed. These high-resistivity substrates (>106ohm.cm) provide the electrical isolation between devices, eliminating the difficulties and deficiencies normally encountered in trying to obtain isolation with dielectrics, back-etching, p-n junctions, etc. This monolithic approach to integrated-circuits thus allows for improved microwave pedormance from the devices since parasitics are reduced to a minimum. Planar Gunn oscillators and Schottky barrier diodes have been fabricated for use in a completely monolithic integrated millimeter wave (94 GHz) receiving front end. The Gunn oscillators are made in a sandwich-type structure of three selective deposits whose carrier concentrations are approximately 1018-1015-1018cm-3. The Schottky diodes consist of two deposits with concentrations of 1018and 1017cm-3. The Schottky contact is formed by evaporating Mo-Au onto the 1017cm-3deposits; all ohmic contacts are on the surface and are alloyed to the N+regions."
"Monolithic millimeter-wave integrated circuits have been designed and fabricated on semi-insulating GaAs substrates using microstrip transmission lines. Circuits using hybrid techniques have also been constructed on quartz and ceramics. This paper shows that microstrip-line integrated circuits are feasible at millimeter-wave frequencies. Circuit functions have been constructed and tested in the 25- to 100-GHz range. The loss in microstrip line on semi-insulating GaAs was found to be less than 0.3 dB/λ. Couplers from waveguide to microstrip have been made with transmission losses less than 0.5 dB. Monolithic integrated detectors showed 5-dB better sensitivity than a 1N53 diode in a philips detector mount. Monolithic diodes delivered 1.5 mW at 28 GHz. The results are encouraging and a fully monolithic integrated receiver is under development."
"This paper decribes the design approach, fabrication techniques, and electrical performance for two types of microwave hybrid thin-film phase shifters. Emphasis is placed on the practical aspects of the overall design and fabrication. A simplified set of design equations for loaded-line phase-shift networks is presented and divided into three categories based on the type of loading employed. The two circuits presented are a 4-bit 90° network employing single-section multibits to minimize physical size, and a 4-bit 360° network employing the 45° section as a basic building block."
"This paper presents an evaluation of materials and processes applicable to the fabrication of hybrid microstrip microwave circuits. Substrate materials evaluated included aluminas, beryllias, quartz, and glass of varying purities and surface finishes. Conductor materials evaluated included silver, copper, gold, and aluminum. Fabrication processes studied included vacuum deposition sputtering electroless and electroplating, thick-film screening and firing, and photoetching. Sapphire and high-purity alumina (99.5 percent pure or better) substrates were found superior as substrates for microstrip circuits. Conductor materials and processing methods found best were 1) vacuum deposited chromium-gold thin film which was gold electroplated and photoetched; 2) thick-film silver which was photoetched to delineate the microwave pattern."
"A procedure for designing quarter-wavelength 3-dB directional couplers is described which utilizes a perturbation technique to reduce the number of experimental models needed during the development. Limitations caused by unequal odd and even mode phase velocities and junction parasitics are discussed. The use of thin-film conductors on quartz and glazed ceramic gives a coupling accuracy better than 3.0 ± 0.1 dB and an isolation greater than 32 dB with worst-case tolerances."
"A maximally flat multistub filter was designed using both λ/4 shorted and λ/2 open stubs and constructed on ceramic substrate using microstrip transmission lines."
"High peak pulsed output power (up to 100 watts), co-planar, L-band (1 GHz), epitaxial-layer Gunn oscillators are described. Particular emphasis has been given to minimizing surface damage and to effective heat dissipation. These high-power oscillators have been used in both coaxial and stripline circuits. The latter are adaptable to integrated circuitry."
"Microstrip circuit techniques are applied to the development of a small, light-weight, ruggedized,L-band 200-mW oscillator. Performance data of the oscillator are given and two applications, a radiosonde and a projectile telemetry transmitter, are described."
"A nonreciprocal tunable YIG filter in a microstrip configuration has been constructed which makes use of a novel method of generating a circularly, polarized field in the plane of a microstrip circuit. Nonreciprocities in excess of 40 dB have been obtained atXband with relatively low insertion loss and VSWR."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"The spatial variations of the three charged gold states in the transition region of silicon p+n and n+p step junctions are calculated. The exact solution is obtained at thermal equilibrium. Under reverse applied bias, exact solution is not possible and approximate solutions using staircased charge distributions are obtained. Under reverse bias, most of the gold atoms in the transition region are in the negative or acceptor charge state for both p+n and n+p junctions. This is due to the dominance of the hole emission process at the neutral gold centers over all other electron and hole emission processes of the three charge states at 300°K. Since the shallow-level impurities in these two types of junctions are of opposite charge and the deep-level gold impurity is mainly in the negative charge state, quite different electrical behaviors are expected from these two junction types. In work to be described elsewhere, some of these differences have been demonstrated experimentally, such as the breakdown voltage and the impedance, and quantitatively correlated with theory using the spatial variations obtained in this paper."
"Space-charge effects in avalanching p+-i-n+diodes give rise to a current-controlled bulk negative resistance. It is shown that this negative resistance gives rise to an instability which tends to lead to the formation of current filaments. A steady state can be found in which the generation of carriers in the filament by impact ionization is balanced by radial diffusion of carriers. We present the results of approximate numerical calculations of filament current-density profiles and total filament current as a function of applied voltage. The total filament current is a decreasing function of the applied voltage; thus, the diode exhibits a quasistatic negative external resistance. It is suggested that this negative resistance may be used to interpret observed sub-transit-time oscillations of p+-i-n+structures."
"Fast rise time pulses can be generated with a special high-frequency silicon transistor structure having a collector impurity profile designed to control charge storage in the collector. When switched out of saturation it operates in a manner analogous to a step-recovery diode. The theory of operation is discussed along with the design and fabrication of the diffused impurity profiles. Its unique geometry combines planar and mesa technologies. Experimental transistors have a storage time of approximately 2-30 ns followed by a fall time as fast as 0.5 ns. The storage time can be adjusted by varying the initial base current or the driving pulse. The storage time and fall time are accurately characterized by the charge-control model. A transformer input circuit gives the best switching performance. Control devices of conventional planar structure fail to produce fast switching times. They demonstrate the failure of the charge-control model in describing the fall time of planar transistors in general."
"A new microwave negative-resistance diode is proposed. The diode is similar to the Read diode insofar as the negative resistance is partially due to the finite transit time of carriers flowing through a depletion region. Unlike the Read diode, however, the carriers are injected into the depletion region by punch through rather than by avalanche. The resulting device is therefore expected to have a considerably better noise performance than the Read diode. The paper first explains qualitatively the punch-through operation of the proposed device and contrasts it with similar structures proposed earlier by Read and by Shockley. The large signal admittance of the punch-through diode is then obtained by using a sharp pulse approximation of the injection process. A device Q of -15 is calculated. Considering the device as a microwave oscillator, it is found that conversion efficiencies of the order of 20 percent should be possible. Estimates of the upper bounds on the microwave power are given. The paper concludes with a detailed account of design considerations for the device. Numerical designing examples for the frequency range of 1 to 5O GHz are given."
"Excitation of elastic waves in a piezoelectric solid by an interdigital transducer, in terms of a simplified model, has been analyzed using Lamb's integral solution. The transducer generates three types of disturbances propagating at the velocities of irrotational, equivoluminal, and Rayleigh waves. While the amplitudes of the former two waves diminish as the three-half power of the distance from the transducer, that of the latter does not decay with distance on the surface. Dependence of particle displacement of the waves on electric fields, number of electrodes, electrode width, and wave numbers has been derived. It has been shown that a conventional interdigital transducer, in which all the electrode widths and all the spacings are respectively equal among themselves, can respond to fundamental and odd harmonic excitations, but not to the even harmonics. Means to improve the insertion loss and the bandwidth of the transducer are discussed. A flat overall frequency response can be synthesized by parallel operation of two or more transducers, the fundamental frequencies of which are properly staggered."
"An analytical, nonlinear space charge wave theory is given for the velocity-modulated confined electron beam of finite radial extension. The present theory gives a more accurate nonlinear description of the electron velocities and the ac current amplitudes at the fundamental and harmonic frequencies than is given by earlier space charge wave-type theories. Although the theory is not strictly valid after electron overtaking has occurred, a formulation is used which allows the electron velocities to be multi-valued functions of the space coordinates. Therefore reasonably good results should also be expected in the overtaking range. For very large signals the results transform to those of Webster's ballistic theory, while for small signals the usual linearized space charge wave theory is obtained."
"The aberrations resulting from the deflection of an electron beam by two similar, mutually perpendicular magnetic fields have been evaluated. The beam is assumed to be composed of noninteracting, nonrelativistic particles converging, when undeflected, to a single point in the center of the target. If dynamic focusing is used, the field shapes can be adjusted to eliminate astigmatism and minimize coma. Field optimization procedures are presented with a numerical example. The correct densities and boundaries are recorded by a computer-controlled plotter."
"It has been demonstrated that \"heat pipe\" cooling techniques can be applied to TWTs. Since the heat pipe will reduce operating temperatures and the temperature drop along the vacuum barrel, improved reliability can be attained. In addition, design flexibility is increased, and the overall TWT weight can be reduced."
"The LSA oscillator has been experimentally shown to have Several useful functions other than basic microwave power generation. These include frequency down-conversion with gain, efficient up-conversion, amplitude-modulated LSA oscillation, injection phase-locked LSA oscillation, and video amplification."
"An oversize cylindrical reentrant cavity has been used to excite and support LSA mode oscillations in ann-GaAs epitaxial diode. Peak pulsed power output as high as 3.5 watts with an efficiency of 8 percent has been observed at 15.2 GHZ. Descriptions of the cavity, the experimental circuit and the diode are given along with reasons for believing that the microwave output power is the result of LSA-mode oscillations."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"Those who use electronics to solve problems for customers must exercise science, engineering, art, and business sense, and work with four generations of electronics based on vacuum tubes, discrete semiconductor devices, integrated circuits, and integrated electronic components, respectively. This paper includes forecasts of the growing applications and economic impact of integrated electronics. The concept of Active Element Groups (AEGs) is used to analyze the growth of the market from 1963 to 1973 and to emphasize the increasing integration of electronics. Despite dramatic trends now emerging in product mix and technology, the electronics industry will not be radically changed in structure. Bigger organizations are likely to get still bigger and stronger; smaller organizations are likely to consolidate; integrated electronics will make electronics pervasive. Integrated electronics makes the inward-looking science, engineering, and art of electronics more usable and allows the outward-looking practitioners who use electronics to solve problems for customers to move up their skills and concentrate on more effective and more sophisticated solutions-to those problems. It does not decrease their ability to serve their customers. It does require that they upgrade and change the emphasis of that ability to serve their customers more effectively."
"High-yield manufacturing methods will be essential for future economical fabrication of large-scale integration (LSI) arrays. A progress report is presented on a program aimed at fabricating bipolar LSI arrays directly using fixed, nondiscretionary interconnections among components. Array complexity is to be approximately 103silicon transistor on a chip (100 to 200 high-speed emitter-coupled logic gates). Techniques employed to increase yield on initial array vehicles include 1) use of minimum area devices, 2) noncontact photolithographic methods, 3) redundant processing sequences, and 4) special environmental controls and wafer handling."
"A detailed study indicates that the radiation resistance of MOS transistors is controlled by the details of technology. It has been found that an MOS structure can be created that remains operational for gamma doses above 107rad. It will be shown how the radiation resistance varies with gate oxidation and the metals employed. Two metals were used in the experiments: aluminum and chromium. The interrelationship between radiation and thermal stability will also be discussed. It will be shown that there is some connection between the two as long as the same basic technology is used. It is possible however, that combinations that result in thermal stability can still show a low radiation resistance. The radiation generates positive-charge centers in the oxide and these centers are related to \"minor\" bonds in the oxide. In this respect, the oxide-metal interactions have been considered. It follows from our studies that the greatest radiation resistance will be found forp-enhancement devices and for certainn-depletion structures. The measurements will show results forP-enhancement units with radiation resistance one-hundred times greater than previously reported figures, both for MOS and bipolar transistros."
"The comparison of air-gap isolated integrated circuits with conventionally fabricated circuits shows the advantage of the \"beam-lead concept.\" Utilizing the anisotropic etching properties of single crystalline silicon in the"
"A description of the three main substrate preparation processes to achieve silicon dioxide dielectric isolation are described. The use of dielectric isolation for high-speed and low-power circuits is outlined, with calculations of saturation resistance and transient characteristics. Introduction of carrier lifetime-reducing gold into a dielectrically isolated wafer can cause problems, which are delineated. Final results are listed and Photomicrographs of working circuits are presented."
"A new technique for attaching external package leads to metallized substrates is presented. Gold-plated copper lead frames and gold-plated headed leads of various compositions are thermocompression bonded to metallized alumina substrates. The generated patterns on the substrates consist of an evaporated layer of gold over an evaporated layer of titanium. The leads are bonded simultaneously to form gold diffusion bonds between the leads and the metallized substrate. The lead frames are stamped from 0.005 inch and 0.010 inch thick copper. The headed leads range in size from 0.017 inch in diameter to 0.025 inch square. The various problems encountered in the development of this technique and their related solutions will be discussed. The bonding tool consists of a base for positioning the substrate and a bonding tip which applies the necessary pressure and temperature to produce a bond. The base and bonding tip for lead frames can compensate for camber and nonuniform thickness in the ceramic while the base and bonding tip for headed leads are noncompensating. The various parameters of bonding time, bonding temperature, bonding force, and bond strengths will be presented. In addition, hermetic seal evaluations will be discussed. A comparative cost analysis will be made between attaching leads individually by welding versus attaching all package leads simultaneously by the thermocompression bonding technique. This investigation has opened additional avenues toward determining the full scope and capability of thermocompression bonding in an area previously dominated by brazing and the sealing of metal to glass and/or ceramics."
"A new isolation scheme is described in which the device is fabricated in an intrinsic region isolated from other regions and from theP^{+}substrate by aP-I-Nstructure. Thus the component-to-substrate capacitance and the substrate resistance are reduced by one order of magnitude or more, and the coupling or crosstalk is consequently reduced by several orders of magnitude. The fabrication process involves only conventional epitaxy and diffusion techniques. The intrinsic regions are obtained through gold compensation. Compared toP-N-junction-isolated gold-doped integrated devices, theP-I-N-isolated circuits require only one additional step-a second epitaxial deposition. Preliminary experimental data giveP-I-Ncapacitance of about 0.013 pF/mil2and breakdown voltage of 200 volts."
"A technique has been developed for achieving a very high density interconnection of active silicon devices to permit the fabrication of large electronic subsystems in essentially monolithic form. The technique has been used to assemble a MOS 2000-bit shift register containing 12 000 MOS transistors on a 300 by 600 mils silicon substrate. The register utilizes ten 200-bit shift-register chips, each containing 1200 transistors. Four-phase MOS logic techniques are used to obtain very low power (0.1 mW/bit) and/or high frequency (10 MHZ) operation. In the technique used to assemble the 2000-bit shift register, silicon large-scale array chips are face-down bonded in adjoining positions on a larger silicon wafer section which may contain additional layers of interconnections and/or active devices as required to form a complete system subassembly. Since the same photoengraving technology is used in the substrate as on the chips, very high packing densities can be achieved, with minimum chip area required for interconnections. This approach also minimizes the parasitic capacitance associated with more conventional techniques for encapsulating and interconnecting large-scale arrays. In the case of MOS circuits, large area-buffer devices are not needed due to the small capacitance in the wafer-chip interconnections. Various techniques have been evolved for processing the chips and substrates produce contact regions which permit the required high fabrication yields. The bonding conditions and metallurgical systems used to date in fabricating large shift-register assemblies will be described and compared with other approaches."
"Rapidly expanding emphasis on microelectronic circuitry has produced increasing demands in solid-state bonding techniques. For example, an important manufacturing step in the use of beam-leaded integrated circuits is joining the leads to surrounding circuitry. Economically, it is desirable to bond all leads simultaneously; however, when doing this a number of potential difficulties related to uniform deformation of all leads must be dealt with. One solution to these problems is a solid-state joining process called \"compliant bonding.\" Compliant bonding utilizes a deformable medium between the tool and the beam leads. An energized tool such as that used in thermocompression bonding is brought in contact with the medium which in turn conforms to the topography of the leads and transmits the necessary energy. During the bonding operation the compliant medium controls lead deformation by partially constraining the lead; it also compensates for tolerances associated with simultaneous bonding of a multiplicity of beam leads. This technique permits the use of a flat-faced tool eliminating the need for intricate tool shapes and precise tool alignments. The paper describes the results of mechanical tests and metallographic examinations. These results show that compliant bonding is a simple and repeatable solution for simultaneous bonding of multiple beam leads and other interconnections. Other possible advantages are simplified handling and testing in high-level production."
"This paper describes the fabrication and performance of beam leadnonn^{+}silicon-molybdenum, barrier dual Schottky diodes. The fabrication is by a process sequence which allows the use of a single molybdenum gold-metal deposition step for both the Schottky barrier and beam-lead interconnection system. TypicalI-Vand1/C^{2}-Vplots indicate uniformity of barrier heigh and n factor. Values of n less than 1.1 were measured with the barrier height at 0.61 eV. Measurements of change in barrier height with temperature up to 500°C show less than ± 10 mV variation. Dc characteristics of these devices give forward current matching of ± 10 mV at 1 mA. The Rsis 10 ohms and the Cjis less than 0.3 pF, giving an RC product less than 3 × 10-12seconds. Using these devices in a chrome-gold on alumina microstrip integrated mixer, overall single sideband noise figures of 6.5-7.0 dB were measured, with a 1.5 dB IF noise figure, at 9.4 GHz. Measured noise figure was essentially constant over a range of 1-10 mW of local oscillator power, and the diodes will with stand over 500 mW CW RF power. These values compare favorably with discrete packaged devices. Fabrication in series pairs, matched quads or other configurations can be accomplished with good uniformity."
"The paper first discusses the general use of circulators as circuit elements in integrated microwave circuits. In particular it is pointed out that circulators greatly reduce some of the requirements on the other components, thus making possible circuits with higher overall performance than would ordinarily be possible in stripline. The cost of these circulators is low enough to allow one to use quite a profusion of them. In addition to the usual function of the circulator to provide isolation, its use as a power splitter is introduced here. Power splitting can certainly be done by conventional means, e.g., using directional couplers, but the use of a circulator in conjunction with a controlled mismatch provides an unusual degree of flexibility. The splitting ratio can be very simply adjusted over a wide range. Finally, a physical realization of an integrated microwave circuit is shown. It utilizes six circulators, one of which is a power splitter. In addition to its main function of dividing an amount of input power between two loads, the circuit contains a variable attenuator and a power sampler, and provides high isolation between the two loads. The size is a fraction of that of the waveguide circuit it replaces."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"An experimental potassium dihydrogen phosphate (KDP) light modulator with a 10 percent (half-m) bandwidth at 6 GHz is described. When arranged for amplitude modulation, a modulation depth of 40 percent was obtained with 10 watts of input power at band center. With a different optical arrangement, phase modulation is also possible. The modulator uses a ring-plane traveling-wave circuit with cylindrical KDP crystals filling the space inside the rings. The crystals are used in the longitudinal mode, i.e., with the light beam along the optic axis, thus avoiding some of the thermal problems associated with transverse node operation. The circuit provides adequate cooling for the crystals and CW or pulsed operation at average RF levels of 10 watts is possible. Measurements indicate that the limitation in bandwidth is due mainly to the dispersion of the circuit and that with suitable modifications bandwidths of 20 percent are quite feasible."
"The feasibility of applying the log-periodic concept to microwave amplifiers has been investigated. This approach, successfully utilized in antenna design, offers the potential of greater bandwidth at a given power level than attainable from existing uniform devices. Log-periodic devices analogous to klystron, traveling-wave, and hybrid amplifiers have been studied. The dimensions of each section, including the beam diameter, in a log-periodic amplifier are a constant factor times those of the preceding section. Thus the general outline of such devices is conical. These devices have been simulated on a digital computer using a model in which the coupling between periodic sections is provided by one space-charge mode and one circuit mode. The accuracy of this model has been verified by simulation of existing traveling-wave tubes. Computer results on a 100kW log-periodic \"klystorn,\" using a backward-wave circuit with a total taper ratio of 4.6 to 1, indicate that a useful bandwidth of approximately 3 to 1 can be obtained. Increasing the mechanical taper increases the bandwidth in direct proportion. Computer results on log-periodic versions of helix traveling-wave tubes are also given."
"This paper presents results on RF power output and efficiency of IMPATT oscillators obtained from a large-signal model of these devices. The results are obtained from a closed-form solution of the nonlinear equations describing a Read-type IMPATT diode. The closed-form solution is obtained by assuming a short transit time through the drift region compared to the RF period. The solution is used to obtain the large-signal diode impedance. The analysis shows that the power output of an IMPATT diode depends strongly on the series load resistance presented to the active part of the diode and that the change in diode reactance with increasing bias current also depends on the series resistance. Plots of power output as a function of frequency, bias current, and load resistance are presented. Frequency tuning of the oscillator through current variation is also discussed. Experimental results are presented and compared with the theoretical ones wherever possible. The results lead to an improved understanding of such oscillators and are extremely useful in optimizing their performance and determining their limitations."
"Insulated gate field effect transistors (IGFET's) with the gate offset from the drain electrode exhibit high drain breakdown potential and very low Miller feedback capacitance. The new insulated gate tetrode (IGT) described in this paper utilizes a second stacked gate to create the offset channel. The main advantage is the possibility of optimizing the device performance, especially the drain breakdown potential for bothP-andN-channel devices. Considered in the paper are design and fabrication problems,V-Icharacteristics, drain breakdown potential, dynamic drain resistance, small-signal equivalent circuit, and large-signal limitations.P-channel IGT's with drain breakdown potentials up to 300 V have been built. The design of the IGT depends mainly on the tradeoff between drain breakdown potential and the limited frequency response caused by the time constant of the offset channel. The results to date indicate that the IGT has a large drain voltage range and an extremely low Miller feedback capacitance and is adaptable to different operating conditions. The IGT appears very promising for use in power amplifiers and switching applications."
"It has been predicted that Ge transistors should exhibit faster switching speed than Si devices of comparable geometry, due to the higher electron and hole mobility in germanium. The development of techniques for the deposition of masking films and diffusion of donors and acceptors in Ge enables processing of double diffused planar transistors in a manner similar to those used in silicon. This paper describes and discusses these processes for bothn-p-nandp-n-ptransistors. The dc and high-frequency performance of these transistors reach expected values and indicate a superiority of germanium in high-speed performance."
"Theoretical treatments predict higher injection efficiency for double diffused silicon transistors than the experimentally observed values. This paper shows that the discrepancy can be partly explained by the difference in the effective energy gaps in the emitter and base regions. Coulomb interaction of the free carriers results in lower energy gap in the heavily doped emitter than in the rest of the transistor. The difference in the energy gaps is experimentally determined from the activation energy difference of the emitter-current and the ideal component of the base Current. It is concluded that too much doping in the emitter lowers the transistor gain, increases the temperature dependence of the gain, and results in a higher excess noise."
"A conventionalp^{+}-n(orn^{+}-p) planar avalanche photodiode with a 10-4cm2active area has ∼2.5 × 10-4cm2total area because of its protecting guard ring and has a series resistance of ∼50 to 100 ohms. For narrow-band applications, multiplications greater than 10 are necessary to equal the available output power of a conventional nonavalanchingp-i-nphotodiode. In broad-band applications, significant multiplications are necessary to compete favorably with thep-i-nwhen the active area is less than 10-4cm2or when the signal frequency is > 1 GHz. Ap-n^{+}planar structure is discussed that eliminates the need for a guard ring because positive junction curvature occurs on the high-resistivity side. Thep-n^{+}diodes can be designed to have resistances (Rs∼2 ohms), capacitances (C < 1 pf), and RC cutoff frequencies (fco>100 GHz) equivalent to those of thep-i-nand to have uniform multiplication as well. Closer array spacings can be achieved than with the guard ring structure, as well as higher effective quantum efficiencies in the avalanche mode. Practical realization of thep-n^{+}structure has been achieved in silicon by a combination of epitaxial and doped-oxide processing. Seven-mil-diameter junctions with high breakdown voltage (110 V) and uniform avalanche properties have been constructed."
"Recent experimental observations on a silicon impact avalanche transit-time diode oscillator and amplifier CW-operated at 50 GHz are presented. 1) CW oscillation power of 100 mW was obtained at an overall efficiency of 2 percent. The oscillation frequency was continuously tunable over a 1.3-GHz range by a sliding short. 2) Phase-locking has been achieved with a maximum normalized gain-bandwidth product of 0.1. The minimum locking signal power required for a 500-MHz locking bandwidth was 20 dB below the oscillator output. 3) Electronic tuning of the oscillator frequency was demonstrated by placing a millimeter-wave varactor diode in the tuning circuit. The output frequency versus the bias voltage on the varactor diode was linear with maximum frequency deviation of 300 MHz. Frequency modulation of the oscillator by driving the varactor with a sinusoidal source was obtained at a modulation frequency of 50 MHz. 4) Stable amplification with 13-dB gain was obtained, centered at 52.885 GHz with a 3-dB bandwidth of 1 GHz. The maximum output power obtained was 16 mW. Higher gain of about 17 dB was obtained at a reduced bandwidth. The noise figure of the amplifier was 36 dB. Equivalent circuits for the oscillator and the amplifier are derived. The calculated results agree reasonably well with the experimental observations."
"Effects of peripheral-surface damages on breakdown characteristics ofn^{++}-n-n^{+}epitaxial GaAs bulk diodes were investigated experimentally. Critical voltages for switching from a high-voltage saturating-current state to a high-current low-voltage state were measured on a number of mechanically diced cubic-type elements and on chemically etched mesa-type elements. It was found that the switching voltages of the mesa-type diodes were much higher and more uniform than those of the cubic type. The difference in the switching voltages between the two types is ascribed to the peripheral-surface damages produced on the cubic-type elements during wire saw cutting. It was concluded that the elimination of the peripheral surface damages is important to obtain GaAs bulk diodes of high reliability."
"Radiation damage inp-channel MOS devices by 1.5 MeV electrons has been studied by thermal annealing in conjunction with electric fields between the metallic gate and the substrate. Both positive and negative gate biases retard the process of annealing. Annealing with negative gate bias reveals 1) that during thermal annealing the majority of the electrons that recombine with the positive charge in the oxide originate from the conduction band of the silicon, and 2) that during irradiation a great number of ionized electrons that remain in the oxide do not recombine with the holes, but are trapped in weakly bound states. The effect of positive bias on annealing of radiation damage is obscured by the positive charge induced due to positive bias-temperature treatment alone. No effect of drain-to-source potential on annealing has been observed."
"MOS enhancement mode field effect transistors with a circular geometry and with drains offset from the gate by distances from 0.1 mil to 0.9 mil were implanted with boron ions to fill in the offset region and thus achieve perfect alignment (i.e., no overlap) between gate and drain. The energies used were 50 to 100 keV and a 4000 Å-thick aluminum gate acted as a mask to prevent ions from penetrating into the channel region. The best junctions were obtained with 100-keV ions, with the sheet resistances being typically 4000 ω/□ for the implanted region. This additional drain resistance was quite small compared to the channel resistance of the devices and so was not objectionable. Ordinary diffused MOSFET's were included on the same wafers for comparison with the ion implanted MOSFET's. It was found that the differences in noise, leakage, and drain breakdown voltage were not serious. The chief advantage of the ion implanted MOSFET is the extremely low feedback capacitance due to the lack of gate-drain overlap, but this advantage is difficult to exploit in a conventional package because of the package capacitance. However, a significant difference was noted in switching characteristics between diffused and ion implanted MOSFET's mounted on TO-18 headers."
"Noise measurements have been performed on forward and reverse-biased silicon Schottky barrier diodes. Measurements were performed in the frequency range of 100 Hz to 50 kHz. Apart from excess noise observed for some diodes in a portion of this frequency range, the noise for the diodes was found to be in excellent agreement with shot-noise theory. Some refinements of the shot-noise theory have been considered, but the difference between the refined and the simple theories was not resolvable in our measurements. A useful noise-measurement technique is described."
"The theory for the current noise associated with carrier generation and recombination in ap-njunction transition region is presented. The noise model is derived directly from the SRH defect center model. In a reverse biased junction the noise from this mechanism varies from two-thirds to full shot noise, depending upon frequency, and in a forward biased junction the noise ranges from three-fourths to full shot noise, depending upon injection level. These results approximately agree with published experimental results, but the agreement is not conclusive, especially in forward biased junctions. The theory shows that the noise associated with transition region generation-recombination current is not particularly significant in bipolar transistors."
"In view of the rapidly expanding interest and activity in the area of the Gunn effect, the following bibliography has been compiled for people who are studying or doing research in this area. The term \"Gunn effect\" is used, in general, to collectively describe a number of classes of bulk negative resistance behavior in semiconductors with energy band structures like that of GaAs. These modes of behavior include small-signal amplification, pure accumulation of space charge, mature dipole (true Gunn effect) mode. quenched accumulation (LSA) mode, and quenched dipole mode. These references deal with the theory, experimental results, and applications of the Gunn effect. Works of a fundamental nature concerning phenomena that are basic to all semiconductor behavior and other bulk negative resistance effects have not been included. Also, basic papers dealing with electron transport phenomena, such as hot electron theory and intervalley scattering, which are essential to a complete understanding of the Gunn effect and articles on the properties and band structure of GaAs, InP, CdTe, and other III-V compounds have not generally been included, although in certain cases they are listed if they have been frequently cited. As in the compilation of any bibliography, it is self-evident that some valuable and pertinent articles may have been overlooked."
"The ratio of target current to cathode current (beam transmission) has been studied for a number of vidicons and scan converters. These are high-resolution electron tubes that characteristically have a control grid with a single aperture. The results, as anticipated, show that beam transmission is affected much more than total cathode emission by tube aging processes. The transmission was determined by direct beam current measurement and the cathode condition recorded by the cathode imaging technique. Because of the centralized area in which the loss of emission occurred, beam transmission was reduced much more than total cathode current. In vidicons, the decreasing beam transmission was correlated with increasing residual signal after erasure and with saturation of the gamma transfer characteristics at lower light levels. In practice, beam current rather than cathode current, should be monitored."
"Dow has outlined a method of calculating the space-charge-limited current and obtained a formula that is valid for cathode diameter to anode-to-anode spacing ratio of less than 40 percent. A new formula has been derived that will extend the limit and give excellent result for as high a cathode diameter to anode-to-anode spacing ratio as 70 percent."
"LSA oscillation in GaAs has been analyzed to obtain quantitative frequency-independent interrelationships between RF output power, conversion efficiency, negative RF conductivity, dc electric field, and RF electric field on a per carrier basis. There are limited ranges of compatible RF electric fields, dc electric fields, and matched RF load resistances that define all possible operating points for stable LSA oscillation. Two factors characterizing space-charge control are computed and found to depend on the operating point and the carrier concentration-to-frequency ratio."
"It is shown that the loop frequently observed in curve-tracer measurements of ICEOis generated by capacitive currents in the junction capacitances, together with the forward and reverse conduction properties of the emitter-base diode, and is not representative of true ICEO. A true ICEOmeasurement may take several hours."
"A general case of a noncentered beam in a uniform crossed-field drift region is treated to obtain transformation equations relating the ac beam quantities at the output plane to those at the input plane. The ac beam quantities considered are the surface charge density, beam displacement, and the longitudinal and tangential velocities."
"Experimental results presented here show that excess and thermal currents coexist independent of one another. Excess current behaves according to an analytical expression based on linear temperature dependence of built-in voltage. Thermal current changes from recombination-generation at low voltage to normal injection current at higher voltages."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"The usual assumption in the theory of the Gunn effect of a well-behaved cathode is replaced by a more general set of boundary conditions adapted to the treatment of cathode contacts with some interface resistance. The treatment is in terms of a \"control characteristic\": that is, the current-field characteristic of the cathode interface itself. For contacts with an interface resistance, the control characteristic lies at least partially below the bulk current-field characteristic. This leads to the primary nucleation of depletion rather than accumulation layers. Depending on the detailed shape of the control characteristic and the location of its crossover point (if any) with the bulk characteristic, a large variety of device behavior can be explained. Examples are Gunn's preoscillation cathode fall, Kennedy's prethreshold amplification behavior, the occurrence of excessive threshold fields for the onset of oscillations, and oscillations with lower amplitude and higher frequency than for well-behaved transit time oscillations, despite good doping homogeneity."
"A method has been found for large-signal characterization of IMPATT diodes. Waveguides of different heights are used so that the effect on efficiency of load impedance at a fixed oscillation frequency can be observed. Experimental large-signal admittance plane plots for two p-n diodes operating in Ku-band are presented. A nonlinear phenomenological model of an IMPATT oscillator is developed which correctly predicts the experimentally observed dependence of efficiency on load conductance and admittance plane characteristics. In addition to aiding the visualization of oscillator performance, analysis of this parallel circuit model shows that efficiency increases rapidly with small-signal negative conductance."
"A digital computer program has been employed to study relaxation oscillations of a silicon p-i-n junction diode reverse-biased into avalanche. The computed plots of diode current and voltage versus time and of diode current versus diode voltage are in good agreement with those obtained experimentally by Hoefflinger. The electric field and charge density distributions across the junction are given for selected times during the breakdown and current decay phases of the oscillations. The electric field is characterized by the formation of a saddle during the avalanche buildup. The variations of power output, efficiency, frequency, and average diode voltage are presented as a function of average current for one particular set of diode and circuit parameters."
"The transient response of high-resistivity long-base low-lifetime p+-n-n+silicon diodes was examined experimentally. The diodes were doped with gold in order to reduce the minority carrier lifetime. Voltage oscillations were observed at different current levels. A large inductive effect was shown to exist when the diode was forward biased in a negative resistance region of the dc voltage-current characteristics."
"The power output capability of a VHF transistor is often limited by the RF saturation resistance. The resistance is set up by the constriction of the emitter current to the geometric edges of the device. The contributions of large current densities and high frequencies to current crowding are discussed in this paper. An extension of this discussion leads to an interpretation of the first-order effects for large-signal high-frequency operation. The RF saturation resistance was measured under large-signal conditions and was found to increase by a factor of 2 over a frequency range of 40-200 MHz. This variation was compared to results obtained by a large-dc small-signal analysis. The resulting deviation was less than 20 percent."
"An analysis of the effect of a large spatially uniform time-independent background illumination on the lateral electric fields produced by a small space- and time-varying illumination of ap-njunction is presented. It is shown that a nonlinear coupling between background and signal results in a decrease in the signal electric fields. A general solution is obtained, and a solution in terms of well-known functions for a physically interesting case is exhibited. The parameter dependences are discussed and the effect of finite conductivities in both regions is analyzed."
"The electrostatic storage display tube is a special vacuum tube which combines the intrinsic charge-storage property of a dielectric membrane with the high-speed high-resolution capability of a newly developed electron gun and an independent optical system to provide bright high-contrast large-screen displays. Writing and recording functions have been completely separated from the actual display function, thus providing several advantages over conventional storage display tubes. The same tube may be used for either theater-size displays or hard-copy outputs on photosensitive media. Four phases of the tube are covered in this paper: its basic characterstics, construction, applications, and preliminary speculations on reliability."
"A new red phosphor, europium-activated yttrium oxy-sulfide, has a luminous efficiency 40 percent greater than that of yttrium vanadate. The use of this phosphor in the P22 color screen of color television receivers results in gun-current ratios which are close to unity when balancedfor a \"white\" color temperature of 9300°K The white-field luminance is increased 20 percent as compared to that of vanadate P22 screens for equal power dissipation. An even greater increase in highlight brightness is obtained when the guns are driven to the limit for acceptable blooming. Because the red field requires 40 percent less beam current for the same luminance, there is a corresponding reduction in the stray electron level, and the red-field purity is noticeably improved. This paper describes the performance of the new red phosphor and the methods used in measuring the color temperature and luminance of color television picture-tube screens."
"The high-power properties of the input-window discharge of a TR tube are analyzed in terms of the transmission and reflection coefficients of a thin plasma slab terminated by a low-intensity secondary gap discharge. Computer solutions were obtained for equations expressing the TR properties of arc loss, leakage power, recovery time, and phase shift as functions of collision frequency and electron density. Measurements of arc loss and leakage power in a chlorine discharge yielded values of electron density of 1 × 1014to 6 × 1013electrons/cm3over a 0.5- to 80-torr pressure range. The recovery period atX-band corresponds to a decaying plasma in which electron density decays from 1014to 1012electrons/cm3. This decay occurs in less than 0.5 µs for chlorine discharges. An analysis of the physical mechanisms controlling fast recovery times in electronegative gases shows that the two most important physical mechanisms are recombination of electrons and ions in the early recovery period and electron attachment in the late recovery period. Experimental data is presented for the recovery of chlorine and oxygen over a pressure range of 0.5 to 80 torr. An analysis of measured values of attachment frequency in oxygen indicates that the electron temperature in the recovery period, which is early in the afterglow, was in the 1.4- to 1.2-eV range."
"The process of back-bombardment of a magnetron cathode is considered as a single-surface multipactor. Experimental evidence is given, showing that this back-bombardment is concentrated in lines on the cathode surface, whose intensity is controlled by the RF voltage, and position by the dc voltage and magnetic field. The operating equations of a series-field magnetron are given, and experimentally the performance is shown to follow the Langmuir-Childs, Hull, and Hartree curves in sequence (in distinction to a conventional fixed-field magnetron which operates only near the Hartree voltage). A semiquantitative explanation is given of the bombardment lines, and their dependence on the voltage. A cathode with grooves at the position of the bombardment lines is found to receive much less back-bombardment, and to have a more favorable variation of the residual bombardment as a function of output loading. Multipactor between vane tips of a very lightly loaded magnetron was observed through a large glass window, and was seen to be the cause of a vane tip melting problem. Axial multipactor discharges between vane tips and the pole pieces were also seen; being parallel to the magnetic field, these saturate at a low power level and do no harm. Finally, an axial electron discharge was seen, which appeared to have some of the characteristics of a multipactor, but is not really understood. This discharge destroyed the tube after a few minutes, ending the investigation."
"The problems of wave propagation on a cylindrical electron beam in vacuum and in a plasma background are examined in an exact treatment, i.e., from Maxwell's equations, including relativistic effects. It is shown that certain ambiguous features of the more usual nonrelativistic quasistatic analysis are thereby resolved."
"A new concept for a recording device providing real-time multicolor images is demonstrated using liquid crystal materials which exhibit color changes resulting from changes in the impressed electrostatic field. Signal intensities are presented as colors rather than as optical densities, with red corresponding to the lowest level and blue corresponding to the highest signal level. Using an appropriate liquid crystal medium, electron beam recording with subsequent storage, optical readout, and electron beam erasure are demonstrated with the achievement of the following characteristics: 1) resolution and contrast steps are equal to those obtained from a Vidicon 2) storage times of minutes are shown 3) writing and erasing are accomplished in one television frame, or 1/30 second."
"A new theoretical method of designing convergent electron guns of high perveance for use in microwave tubes is presented here. A differential equation which represents electron trajectories in a convergent electron stream has been deduced under certain approximations. Electron trajectories in an electron stream and boundary values along its boundary were numerically calculated by solving the differential equation by means of an electronic computer. Boundary values on the virtual anode surface under space-charge-limited conditions were used as the initial values for the calculations. Focusing electrodes were determined to satisfy the boundary conditions on the stream boundary. The design procedure is also shown. The electron guns designed by this method are somewhat different in structure from the conventional ones which are usually designed experimentally rather than theoretically. In these new electron guns, nearly uniform current densities will be obtained over the whole cathode area, while in conventional convergent guns of high perveance, electron emission density near the center of the cathodes is usually reduced due to the influence of the anode aperture. Laminar flow will be obtained at points near the minimum stream diameter also in guns designed by this method. Digital computer experiments were performed and the results proved this hypothesis to be reasonable. An electron gun of 1.72 × 10-6perveance and area convergence ratio of 70:1 is shown as an example."
"A general theory of periodic electrostatic focusing structures in micowave tubes is presented. A general method for evaluating the properties of focusing systems is developed. The method is based on the use of the Action Function and is applicable to structures whose potential distribution can be found by the method of separable variables. It is shown that this approach can yield results similar to, but more exact, than those obtained by the classical paraxial ray equation. The basic and double-ring structures have been examined in detail. Parameters describing these structures are presented in graphical and tabular form. It is shown that for irrotational flow, a specific current distribution is required. The use of computer techniques for the solution of electron flow problems is discussed. A computer analysis has been developed and results obtained are discussed. The accuracy of the Action Function and the computer analyses has been verified experimentally. It has been shown that the focusing potentials predicted by the Action Function analysis are in good agreement with the experimental values. The computer analysis has also been shown to give results comparable with those obtained practically. Hollow beams of 3.85, 5.4, and 15.6 µP have been focused using the basic ring structure. In order to investigate the effect of unbalance of focusing and defocusing forces at the inner beam boundary, pinhole measurements have been made. It is shown that the ring structure focuses a hollow beam with some change in the beam cross section. The effect of the unbalance of forces is to transform the current density profile. Results indicate that the transformation is desirable since a beam of constant current density may be transformed to a distribution which approaches that required for irrotational flow."
"Noise along periodic-electrostatically focused electron beams have been measured. The noise variation is periodic with the wavelength of the reduced plasma frequency. It is concluded that electrostatic focusing exhibits similar noise properties as magnetic focusing."
"Epitaxial GaAs diodes have been fabricated giving 651mW CW output power at 10 GHz under room temperature operation. A dc to RF efficiency of 10.1 percent was obtained from a diode operating CW while the measured output of another diode was over 20 mW for 3 mA dc with 70-volt biasing."
"It is shown, in this correspondence, that the operation of most double-diffused transistors at all injection levels is equivalent to that of alloy devices with the effective doubling of the diffusion constant. Moreover, the base transit time of a double-diffused transistor exhibiting a fixed basewidth is nearly current-independent."
"Coherent Gunn oscillations have been observed in long samples of epitaxial GaAs grown by both the solution and the vapor-transport methods on semi-insulating GaAs substrates. Samples of low carrier concentrations which do not exhibit Gunn oscillations, and samples which oscillate incoherently in the dark, oscillate coherently when illuminated. Illumination is observed to lead to an improvement in the peak current-to-valley current ratio."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"A supplementary bibliography containing 158 papers in the field of metal-insulator-semiconductor theory and technology updates the bibliography previously published in this TRANSACTIONS. The classifications are as follows: MOS transistor behavior, physics, preparation of oxide layers, techniques for evaluating insulator layers, device fabrication technology, radiation effects, alternative materials to SiO2."
"Numerical techniques have been used to obtain the field distribution in IGFETs under saturated bias conditions. The numerical solution of Poisson's equation is obtained with fewer simplifying assumptions than are necessary to obtain an analytic solution. The numerical solution is used to calculate the change in channel length as bias values are varied. These changes are used to predict the voltage dependences of drain current, drain conductance and transconductance in saturation. The potential solutions also permit a rough calculation of breakdown voltages. A comparison is made between the theoretical results and measurements on IGFETs of varying dimensions and doping concentrations."
"The electron probe X-ray microanalyzer is a powerful tool for studying impurity distribution and motion in thin films. This analytical instrument is capable of detecting metallic impurities present in areas as small as 1 × 10-6mm2and in concentrations of greater than 1 × 1019atoms/cm3. The analysis requires no sample preparation and is essentially a nondestructive test. This instrument was used to examine unoxidized and oxidized silicon surfaces and a finished microcircuit. With the electron microprobe, aluminum-bearing regions approximately one microns in diameter were detected on the bare surface of mechanically polished silicon slices. These aluminum-rich regions are believed to be alumina abrasive used in polishing. If these regions are not removed by chemical etching they will generate oxide defects during oxidation. These defects were found to contain Al (1 × 1021atoms/cm3and Na (1 × 1020atoms/cm3). Other oxide defects, i.e., pinholes, generated during oxidation varied in size from 0.5 to 5.0 microns and were found to contain Na (1×1021atoms/cm3) and K (5×1021atoms/cm3). Mg and Ca (1 × 1020atoms/cm3) were occasionally observed in these defects. After oxidation, all these impurities could be removed with a hot hydrochloric acid and deionized water rinse; surprisingly, this treatment reduced the silicon surface charge in the MOS structure (X_{0} \\cong 1500Å) by approximately 1.4 × 1011charges/cm2. The surface charge could be further reduced by heating the oxidized wafer at 900°C in a silicon nitride tube."
"The positive charge buildup produced in silicon dioxide by low energy electrons (0 to 30 keV) has been investigated as a function of beam energy and oxide thickness. The induced charge, as evidenced by displacement of capacitance versus voltage plots, was found to be a function of the beam energy dissipated within the oxide in the vicinity of the oxide-silicon interface. The charge induced at a particular fluence level in an oxide of given thickness increases with energy up to some level Emaxbeyond which the charge buildup rate falls off as the energy is increased further. Continued falloff in the buildup rate was observed in several samples irradiated at energies of 200 keV and 1 MeV. Emaxhas been found to correspond to the beam energy which, according to predicted range-energy data, produces maximum energy dissipation per unit path length in the oxide near the silicon interface. Constant temperature annealing of irradiated MOS samples has indicated that the annealed charge is linearly dependent on the logarithm of elapsed time over a finite time interval. This is particularly evident at room temperature where a linear dependence on In (t) has been observed out to 105seconds. Such a time dependence of released charge can result either from thermal activation of trapped carriers from a uniform trap distribution or from thermal emission of recombination electrons over a Schottky barrier from the silicon into the oxide; however, both of these models predict the released charge to be a linear function of absolute temperature. A much stronger temperature dependence has been observed during these experiments."
"A study of the effects and behavior of surface ions on planar semiconductor devices has extended the theoretical understanding to include the case in which the total mobile surface ion density is determined by the net surface ion density induced by the surface potential on the oxide. We describe a useful test structure for the measurement of surface ion behavior and cite its advantages. We have measured the effects of time, humidity, temperature, voltage, and the previous testing history of the device on the behavior of surface ions."
"Some factors which affect the breakdown voltage of planar passivatedp-njunctions and which influence breakdown drift instability are discussed. Experiments describing these phenomena are reported. An activation energy for walk-out recovery is given as approximately 0.35 eV. It is argued that charge motion parallel to and probably within the oxide-semiconductor interface is occurring. Experiments performed to verify this parallel charge drift are related which confirm the effect. Finally, evidence for a mobile negative species is given."
"The saturation current ofn-enhancement silicon MOST's has been investigated as function of temperature. The results are in reasonable agreement with a simple theoretical expression which takes into account the field dependence of electron mobility. It is shown that the effective incremental mobility becomes fairly independent of temperature, and varies inversely proportional to the gate voltage VG, if\\micro V_{G}/\\upsilon_{s}Lis about unity, where µ is the low-field drift mobility, υs, is the saturation drift velocity, andLis the channel length."
"The transient response of the MOS capacitance after the application of a large depleting voltage can be caused by three different mechanisms depending on the distribution of the electric field between the silicon and the oxide. The three different cases were distinguished by measurements of the temperature dependence and the voltage dependence of the relaxation behavior. Relaxation due to thermal generation of carriers prevails at low electric fields, relaxation via oxide states occurs at medium fields, and relaxation by avalanche effects predominates at high fields. From the case where thermal relaxation is predominant the effective lifetime of minority carriers in the depletion region and the surface recombination velocity could be determined. At low temperatures (&sim100°K) where most frequently no relaxation occurs in the dark, light-induced relaxation phenomena were studied. Only light with energies larger than the Si band gap causes relaxation."
"The existence and origin of the interfacial stress between thermally grown silicon dioxide and single-crystal silicon are demonstrated. An oxide grown at about 1200°C will be under about 50 000 psi compressive stress. Interface state density is shown to be correlated to the magnitude of this compressive stress. An attempt is made to explain the correlation using a vacancy model for the interface states. The relationship is such that the higher the stress the lower the interface state density. It has been shown that the interface state density is inversely related to the dislocation density, therefore the vacancy model. The information and treatment are considered to apply to all solid-solid interfaces; the paper is therefore of more general interest and not restricted to the silicon-silicon dioxide system alone."
"The effect of interface charges on the channel conductance in MOS transistors has been investigated. It has been found that, by measuring the conductance as a function of temperature, it is possible to determine both the \"fixed\" interface charge which is independent of the surface potential and the charge trapped in surface states whose occupancy is a function of the surface potential. The characteristics of the two charge components are discussed. It appears that neither a continuous nor a delta-function energy distribution alone is adequate to describe the observed surface-state density."
"At low temperatures, charge exchange in all surface states except those close to the band edges can occur only by capture of free carriers because emission rates become very slow. If means are provided to supply minority carriers (either from an extended inversion layer or in a gate-controlled diode), pronounced charge-trapping effects can be observed. A ledge in the C-V characteristic is identified as being due to the charging of almost all surface states within the forbidden gap at a surface potential dependent on surface-state density, capture cross section and voltage sweep rate. Capture cross sections at low temperatures can be estimated from the onset of the ledge. When the C-V curves are traced from accumulation to inversion the capacitance drops below the equilibrium minimum value into depletion and increases rapidly when inversion is reached. This \"hook\" is caused by a barrier against minority carrier flow at the boundary of the MOS capacitor. The barrier disappears when sufficient voltage is applied to charge the surface states in the boundary region."
"Multilayer Al2O3-SiO2combination (MASC) films are shown to be superior to SiO2films for Ge surface passivation during a forming-gas annealing cycle. The Al2O3is apparently much less permeable to H2than is SiO2. Hydrogen easily permeates SiO2, producing a high density of surface acceptor states on the Ge. Even in the absence of hydrogen exposure, the surface-state and fixed-charge densities under MASC films are reduced by a factor of 2 or more as compared to pyrolytic SiO2films."
"A silicon vidicon target structure is shown in which light sensitivity and spectral response are controlled by varying the band bending and depletion region depth at the light incident surface. Light sensitivity control ratios of over four orders of magnitude are demonstrated, making the new target suitable for use over a wide range of light conditions without the aid of a mechanical aperture. The use of the light control structure as a high-speed electronic shutter with image sampling times as low as several microseconds is also discussed."
"Presents the cover/table of contents for the proceedings."
"Presents the back cover of this proceedings volume."
"The III-V compounds and their alloys offer a unique combination of new electrical and optical properties. The available variety of band structure allows these materials to compete for electronic and optical functions not accessible to the elemental semiconductors."
"The present status of silicon device technology is reviewed in order to point out its limitations. The combination of melt-doping, epitaxial growth, and oxide-masked diffusion allows, at least in principle, the construction of about any desired impurity configuration within the silicon crystal. Our present understanding of the silicon-silicon oxide surface allows the design and control of the important surface properties and makes available such important devices as MOS transistors. The limitations of most concern in these areas of wafer fabrication technology are those associated with improving process control and minimizing defects. Effort in this area takes the form of relating cause to effect followed by appropriate detailed process changes. It represents a direction of extreme importance in maximizing the impact of silicon devices through greatly reduced cost."
"This talk will recall some of the research on germanium and silicon single crystals in the early days of the transistor."
"The effective use of coherent optical radiation in communications requires low power, wide bandwidth modulators. The most promising modulator materials are those with refractive indices sensitive to electric field. Certain of these materials are also useful in nonlinear optical applications such as optical frequency doublers and optical parametric oscillators. The search for efficient modulator, frequency doubler, and parametric oscillator materials has led to the preparation of a large number of single crystals in the class of oxygen octahedra ferroelectrics. This class includes, for example, lithium niobate, barium sordium niobate and barium titanate. Crystal growth and optical studies have led to nearly optimum electro-optical and nonlinear optical materials within this class. The growth and property control methods that have been used are closely related in many instances to those used in the preparation of single crystal semiconductors. While materials with optimum properties have been found, the requirement for high optical quality crystals that do not optically damage when irradiated with a laser have led to additional material requirements that can be met about which much remains to be understood."
"A new mode of microwave power generation in avalanche diodes, with efficiencies greatly exceeding those obtainable from the IMPATT mode, has recently been discovered. The first experimental observation of these high efficieneies was reported by H. J. Prager, K. K. N. Chang and S. Weisbrod (RCA Laboratories), who observed 60% efficiencies at frequencies below 1 GHz with a silicon diode in pulsed operation. Later R. L. Johnston, D. L. Scharfetter and D. J. Bartelink (BTL) observed 40% efficiency at 3 GHz with a germanium diode also in pulsed operation. Their work in addition gives a theoretical explanation of the observations through detailed computer simulation. Most recently D. E. Iglesias and W. J. Evans (BTL) succeeded in obtaining 40% efficiency in continuous operation with a germanium device at frequencies below 1 GHz."
"Avalanche diodes in multiresonant states yielding 20% efficiency at 3 GHz are described and analyzed in this paper. The silicon p+-n-n+punchthrough structure of interest has a nearly abrupt junction and a 95 volt breakdown potential. Optimum transit-time performance at 800amps/cm2is 300 mw with 10% efficiency at 9 GHz in a double-slug coaxial resonator. Under proper RF impedance conditions the operating point will switch to a current density of 2000 amps/cm2. The available power at 9 GHz decreases simultaneously and subharmonic output is observed at 4.5 GHz with 6.5% efficiency. Circuits which provide for separate tuning of the fundamental and harmonic components are utilized to improve this mode. At 3000 amps/cm2, 4 watts with 20% efficiency at 3 GHz is obtained with a third harmonic idler resonance."
"Considerable insight into the large-signal operating characteristics of IMPATT oscillators has recently been obtained from detailed numerical calculations involving a complete modelling of the physical processes taking place in the diode. However, execution time of existing computer programs is so long that extensive parameter studies are impractical. We present here a parameter study using a technique we have developed for analyzing oscillator modes for which Constant velocity is a good approximation. This technique reduces execution time substantially, but still uses a realistic physical model of the diode."
"Small signal measurements of germanium IMPATT diode admittance in the frequency range from 2 to 8 GHz were taken as a function of current density. These measurements were compared with the small signal admittance calculated using the model developed by Gummel, Scharfetter and Blue. The ionization coefficients and saturated velocities for electrons and holes have been chosen to provide reasonable agreement between theory and experiment for the diode avalanche voltage, zeros of the small signal admittance, and the slope and general shape of the admittance versus frequency curves."
"It has become evident from a large-signal analysis of a Read-diode oscillator that in order to obtain high power and efficiency, the r-f voltage swing across the diode becomes comparable to the breakdown voltage and thus the field in the drift region becomes quite low during a part of the r-f cycle. This, of course, results in a nonsaturated or field-dependent velocity in the drift region which essentially changes the drift time and thus affects the power output and efficiency of the device considerably."
"A new integrated circuit fabrication scheme, using transistors with p-type epitaxially grown base layers was proposed by the authors at the 1968 ISSCC. Transistor-transistor logic gates having a packing density of1.1 \\times 10^{5}gates/in2have been fabricated using this scheme. The gates have a power × delay of 8 picojoules and a delay of 20 nsec using a 1.5 volt power supply. The output transistors have a peak ftof 2-3.4 GHz."
"The possibility of implementing bipolar transistors, and hence diodes, in integrated circuits in a self-isolated form has been proposed by one of the authors and independently by B. T. Murphy et al. The present paper is concerned with some of the experimental results of the proposed structures. A p-type epitaxial layer is grown on a p-type substrate where localized n+-layers are buried, and there is no need for additional isolation diffusion besides n+-collector contact diffusion. The higher packing density and the simlicity in processing resulting from the above structures are desirable features for LSI"
"A technique is described by which it is now possible to fabricate completely complementary PNP/NPN transistors in a monolithic structure. Until now it has not been possible to make PNP devices with high fTand good hFEin a monolithic structure which are compatible with NPN devices. Both the NPN and PNP transistors have parameters which are identical to those obtained with discrete transistors."
"The Silicon Gate Technology is a new approach to fabricating insulated gate field effect transistor circuits, in which the metal gate electrode is replaced by a doped, silicon electrode. The work function difference between the gate electrode and semiconductor bulk will now be determined by the doping of the gate electrode. This leads to normally off p-channel devices with threshold voltages typically between 1.1 v and 2.5 v on material with 1000Å gate oxide. It is a self-aligned gate structure and has a buried-gate electrode which allows crossover of gate regions and closer spacing of source-drain contact. The fabrication needs 4 masking steps and was found to be compatible with existing planar technology."
"Medium and large scale integrated arrays employing complementary MOS transistors, are capable of driving low capacitive loads only. An n-p-n bipolar transistor with an isolated collector is needed when an integrated circuit is required to drive large capacitive loads without deterioration in the maximum operating frequency."
"P-channel enhancement mode MOS field effect transistors have been fabricated on high resistivity P-type (π) silicon substrates. A high off-state impedance can be achieved with zero gate voltage if the substrate resistivity is sufficiently high so that the P+π low-high junctions formed by the diffusion of the drain and source regions exhibit the desired rectifying characteristics. N-channel MOSFETs can also be fabricated on these high resistivity π substrates. While the N-channel devices usually exhibit depletion mode characteristics, both N and P-channel enhancement type MOSFETs can be simultaneously fabricated on a signal substrate if Al2O3-SiO2gate insulating layers are used and if QSSis kept sufficiently small. The channel lengths must be sufficiently large to eliminate SCL current flow from drain to source with zero gate voltage. Off-state leakage currents on the order of nanoamperes have been observed for both units when the channel length was equal to 2 mils. By using techniques such as beam-lead interconnections or dielectric. isolation, complementary MOS integrated circuits can be fabricated on a single substrate and only two diffusions are required. Additional advantages of this approach include: extremely high carrier mobilities, very low threshold voltages for both units and negligible variation of MOSFET charac teristics with reverse substrate bias."
"Various studies have been carried out to determine whether SiO2could be replaced by improved insulators in MOS structures and integrated circuits. These studies have been directed toward improving device performance and reducing the requirements for the \"ultra clean\" technology presently employed. In this paper we report on MOS transistors and integrated circuits fabricated using plasma grown Al2O3. The aluminum oxide is formed by depositing an aluminium film on a fresly cleaned silicon substrate and then anodizing in an oxygen plasma. All other steps in device fabrication use standard silicon technology."
"Non-reentrant, injected-beam, crossed-field amplifiers usually employ a thin, laminar beam positioned well above the sole electrode. In operation, the beam is gradually bunched by a phase-focusing action. This paper describes the analysis and demonstration of such an amplifier, with one important difference: the electrons of the beam have random, cycloidal trajectories extending to the sole instead of following the usual linear paths. Rapid and effective bunching is accomplished by collecting antiphase electrons on the sole. Experimental results are presented to show that the approach is useful for high current beams. For example, an output power of 600w was obtained at 10 db gain from an 800 ma beam. The advantages and disadvantages of the cycloidal motion are discussed, and the results of computations are given to show the desirable characteristics attainable. For example, an amplifier with a cycloiding beam requires only 35% of the interaction length of a laminar-beam type to produce the same power output, gain, and efficiency."
"A forward wave UHF reentrant beam crossed-field amplifier has been developed to deliver 250 kw pulse output over the 406 to 450 MHz range. This amplifier is dc operated and uses a cold secondary emission cathode. Amplification is initiated by the input RF drive pulse and is terminated by a voltage pulse applied to a control electrode, which eliminates the need for a high power pulse modulator. This represents the first application of the dc operating technique to UHF tubes. To adapt the amplifier to forced air cooling its geometry was inverted, with the cathode surrounding the anode. The heat sink for the anode is at the center of the amplifier and cooling air is forced through a simple and compact system of cooling fins. The inverted geometry also provides a significant increase in the available cathode area."
"This paper describes a tube designed for wide band, long pulse operation at S-band with an output peak power higher than 500 kw and an average power of 5 kw. This tube has a bandwidth of 350 MHz at 1 db, a large signal gain of 17 db, an efficiency of 50% and a signal-to-noise ratio better than 3O db. The main studies are: a water-cooled delay line structure having low dispersion and low spurious electromagnetic radiation; a gun permitting good beam injection and with moderate cathode emission density; a cathode having low barium evaporation; a sole surface having low secondary emission; and a collector having a good distribution of electron beam bombardment. Results are presented on the relationship between signal-to-noise ratio and: heater power, gain, sole secondary emission, beam impedance, and fast mode excitation."
"Performance measurements have been made on an experimental FM transmitter using M-BWO. The attractive features of this oscillator are variable power control, high efficiency, wideband modulation capability and light weight. The lack of published data describing the performance of the M-BWO in terms of spectral noise distribution, spurious signals, two-tone third-order distortion, noise power ratio, instantaneous bandwidth and wide bandwidth transmission capabilities has resulted in this investigation. Performance data were obtained with an M-BWO transmitter possessing a residual FM of less than 50 KC. Spurious signals present were found to be greater than --40 db for output powers of 50 watts. Two-tone third-order distortion values varied from 1 to 2% (-37 to --40 db) and noise power ratios measured from --20 to --28 db for an rms frequency deviation of 30 MHz."
"This paper describes a 3.2 mm wavelength, rising sun cavity, pulse magnetron capable of delivering up to 10 kw peak rf power at pulse widths between 5 and 200 nanoseconds at duty cycles up to 0.0002. The reliability of the rising sun design and the high current density Philips' type impregnated cathode ensure relatively long tube life. Modulator design is simplified by the low input capacitance of a rising sun tube in conjunction with the low pulse voltage requirements and relatively high efficiency (8%). This is particularly desirable in the very short nanosecond pulsewidth region needed to fully exploit radar resolution possibilities at this high frequency. Development of the 3.2-mm magnetron was based on experience obtained in the development of a family of existing millimeter magnetrons, in particular, the 4-mm and the 2.5-mm tubes. This paper describes the anode and the hobbing method used for making it. Also described is the cathode and procedures by which it is aligned in the anode: optically during assembly, and electrically after evacuating the tube. Electrical test procedures and the results are described for both cold and hot tests, including descriptions of specialized WR10 waveguide equipment designed for use in evaluating these tubes."
"This paper is presented in two parts: A.) Considerations of Stability and Noise Improvement of Crossed Field Amplifiers, and B.) Beam Analyzer Measurements of a Wide Dynamic Range Crossed Field Gun. A.) The authors have confirmed that in the absence of drive signal, oscillation instabilities in high power crossed field amplifiers are a forward wave phenomenon. Analyses suggest that these instabilities are caused by cyclotron wave interaction. Predicted frequencies and/their tuning are in fair agreement with measurements. Practical designs are discussed in relation to stability, efficiency and electron gun design. B.) The authors have proposed a crossed field gun for optimum beam launching under a wide range of cathode current densities in a fixed magnetic field. Desirable frequency and amplitude modulation characteristics of the device output are expected, using this gun. A beam analyzer is being assembled comprising the Wide Dynamic Range Gun, a drift region and collector. Grid wires in the drift region will permit study of the nature of the electron beam. The design is being simulated on a digital computer, including space charge effects. The computer model will be briefly discussed."
"This paper discusses the maximum rate of rise of voltage (RRV) which can be applied to the cathode of a crossed field device. Recent developments in high peak power, narrow pulse width transmitters have indicated that the established criteria for RRV are not completely valid. Experience has shown that the RRV specified by crossed field tube designers is not a limitation inherent in the devices themselves but rather a function of the matching of the pulser to the tube. Attempts to achieve narrow pulse widths from magnetrons with conventional line type pulsers have tended to confirm the specified maximum RRV. However, when a Darlington or a Blumlein pulse forming network is used in place of the conventional network and pulse transformer, RRV's two to three times higher than the maximum specified have been successfully applied with stable operation. The results indicate that RRV is relatively unimportant as long as overshoot of the modulator pulse is avoided."
"This paper describes the construction and principle of operation of spin-tuned magnetrons, such as they have been developed at Philips, based on patented ideas. Emphasis has been put on high-power magnetrons for X- and Ku-band radars. Magnetron data for these frequency bands are presented together with calculated data for lower frequency bands."
"Life studies have been made to determine the effect of various factors, such as current density, optical flux density, and temperature on the degradation rate in GaAs injection lasers. The lasers were fabricated by H. Nelson using the liquid phase epitaxy method. In a group of tests a dual-diode laser structure was used which consisted of two diodes electrically isolated but optically coupled. The dual-diode structure makes it possible to determine the degradation in the diode lasing characteristics at operating current densities ewen though the degradation itself results from operation in a nonlasing mode. Broken life tests, in which the degradation rates were measured before and after a stepped change in current, were also performed to determine the effect of current density on the degradation rate. The results indicate that at a given current density, degradation is about the same whether or not the diode is lasing. Hence degradation is not peculiar to the lasing condition. The degradation rate is a super-linear function of current density and also a function of the state of the diode at a given time, for large rapid changes in the degradation rate which occur sporadically constitute a large share of the total degradation. The small degradation rate observed at 77°K is attributed to the lower operating current density which can be used at this temperature."
"This paper describes the characteristics of AlxGa1-xAs injection lasers fabricated by an epitaxial growth process based on the solution growth technique. Efficient room temperature lasers (exterior differential quantum efficiency of about 15-20%) with threshold current densities of 40,000-50,000 A/cm2have been fabricated which emit in the wavelength range of 9000 to 8250Å. It is noteworthy that the near-field emission patterns of these lasers are quite uniform -- an important consideration for practical use. We have also measured the temperature dependence of the threshold current density of these diodes and found a ratio of about 40 to 1 between 77°K and 300°K which is typical for liquid-phase epitaxial GaAs lasers. A further point of interest is the variation of laser wavelength with temperature. We find that the peak shifts by about 530Å between 77°K and 300°K. At 77°K efficient (\\sim40%efficient) stimulated emission has been observed in the visible range of the spectrum (6900Å). Diodes which simultaneously lase at two wavelengths at 100°K and below (in the visible and infrared portion of the spectrum) have also been fabricated by varying the alloy composition within two to three microns of the p-n junction. These devices will be described."
"Alkali-metal-vapor discharge light sources are efficient sources of near-infrared radiation. The radiation characteristics of wall-stabilized discharges of cesium, lithium, rubidium, potassium, and sodium have been studied as a function of vapor pressure, pulse width, and duty cycle. The tubes were constructed with polycrystalline alumina or sapphire bodies, tungsten electrodes, and niobium end-caps. Keep-alive operation was used for ease of starting at high pressures and to reduce sputtering and thermal shocks. Spectrograms, using synchronous detection techniques, have been made. The spectral output is \"gray body\" and peaks in the near infrared, from 0.7 to 0.8 µm depending on the vapor. The resonance lines show large inversions. The efficiency of the discharges as light sources has been measured for a wide range of pressure and operating conditions. The output efficiency is proportional to the square root of the pressure from 1 to 200 torr. Over 200 toor, the pressure dependence is less significant. The percent modulation is greater than 90%. On the basis of the results obtained, the design of alkali-metal-vapor pulse light sources for near-infrared illumination applications and as optical pumps for solid-state lasers will be discussed."
"In this paper we shall describe a technique for the display of subnanosecond light pulses which is the optical analog of the technique used in electronic sampling oscilloscopes. The optical pulse waveform to be displayed is assumed to repeat itself with period T. A mode-locked laser provides a source of sampling pulses of a few picoseconds duration. The period of this laser is adjusted to be T + δT, where δT < T. The two beams are sent into a nonlinear crystal set at the phase-matching angle for optical sum frequency generation. If the signal and the probing beam traverse the crystal simultaneously, a short pulse of light at the sum frequency is generated. This pulse represents a sample of the signal beam. Its energy Ysis proportional to ∫ I1I2dt, where I1and I2are the intensities of the light signal beam and sampling beam, respectively. If the signal beam is slowly varying compared to the very brief sampling pulse, we have: Ys= constant × I1(tn) where tnis the arrival time of the nth sampling pulse at the nonlinear crystal. Because of the slightly unequal periods, the sampling pulse scans the light signal in steps of δT seconds. Displays of the sum frequency signal Yson a conventional oscilloscope therefore constitute a sampled display of the light signal. In an experiment to test the method, sampled displays of subnanosecond pulses generated by a mode-locked He-Ne laser (wavelength 0.633µ) were obtained. The source of sampling pulses, ∼4 psec in duration, was a mode-locked Nd:glass laser (wavelength 1.06µ). The two unfocussed beams were mixed in a KDP crystal and the sum frequency signal at 0.397µ was detected by a photomultiplier and displayed on an oscilloscope. The period T of the He-Ne laser pulses was 12.44 nanoseconds, and the sampling step δT was varied between 100 psec and 400 psec. Using this method the He-Ne laser pulse width was observed to vary between 700 psec and 900 psec depending on the He-Ne laser adjustment. These measurements were confirmed with a fast photodiode and an electronic sampling oscilloscope. The average He-Ne laser power was ∼1 mw. In the KDP crystal the sampling pulses converted red light into UV light with an efficiency of about 5%. Since with focussed beams an efficiency of better than 20% can be achieved, it appears possible to optically sample light signals with average powers much less than a milliwatt."
"Exploitation of the high peak power and sharp pulse-shape of mode locked lasers for purposes of extremely short radiative lifetime measurements is investigated. Utilization of a laser as the excitation source is particularly applicable to studies, of samples possessing broad band absorption, i.e., semiconductors, photosynthetic materials, dyes, etc."
"This paper reports on recent work on the electrooptic effect in semiconductors using radiation in the 20 to 120 micron range. This region is interesting in solids due to the presence of lattice vibrations which are expected to effect the strength of nonlinear interactions such as the electrooptic effect."
"The Large-Area Electronic Display equipment developed for the U. S. Army Electronics Research and Development Laboratory by the Electronics Laboratory of the General Electric Company had design objectives that required the development of a high-performance electron-beam scanning system. The recording sensitivity of the thermoplastic tape, coupled with the 20 megahertz maximum signal-frequency, required a high beam-current-density, 4 kv, electron beam. Electron-optical focus-aberrations and deflection-distortions are key factors of this 3000-line raster-scan system. An aberration balance condition is used to remove deflection-distortions. To achieve a satisfactory recording-sensitivity over the entire 50 mm-square writing-format, it is necessary to maintain a uniform spot-shape no greater than two-thirds the 16µ line-to-line spacing."
"The electron-optics of magnetic image-tubes shows that defocusing caused by a change in screen-voltage can be corrected by applying one-half of that relative change to the magnetic field. Unfortunately, this fixed-focus condition can be strictly satisfied only by the use of nonlinear networks."
"Very high electron-beam-scanning resolution can be achieved by electrostatically deflecting an electron beam from a common deflection-center in a uniform magnetic field, as shown by Rose, and more recently by Schlesinger. A further advantage is that the length of the scanning system can be appreciably shorter, resulting in a smaller tube and focus-coil than conventional magnetic tubes."
"The state of the art of vidicon type camera tubes was greatly enhanced several years ago following the successful development of a long-life, high-quality lead oxide photosensitive target material and its introduction into the Plumbicon pickup tube. Since then the original Plumbicon has become the standard camera-tube in the color-television broadcast industry. Recent developments have now resulted in improved versions of the Plumbicon-- types that have improved wave-length sensitivity, lag, resolution, smaller size, and various electron optics. In addition, the Plumbicon is now being successfully manufactured in this country for the first time. In this paper a review will be given of the operating principles of the standard lead oxide photosensitive layer, of its properties, and of the unique characteristics which result when this layer is used as the target in an electron-beam-scanned pick-up tube. Electron-optically the Plumbicon operates in the same fashion as a vidicon; hence it is sensible that we present a detailed comparison between the Plumbicon and the antimony trisulfide vidicon, which will illustrate the superiority of the Plumbicon as regards dark-current, lag, transfer-characteristics, etc. The characteristics of the recently introduced \"extended red sensitive\" Plumbicon- the XQ 1023- will be presented. This tube has a sensitivity of >450 µA/1m (more than 50% greater than the standard XQ 1020 Plumbicon) with useful spectral-response out to beyond 8500Å, a limiting resolution of greater than 700 TV lines, with greater than 50% modulation depth (central) at 400 TV lines. Information about other recent developments in Plumbicon layers, size, and electron optics will also be described."
"This paper introduces a new type of cathode-ray tube with a novel electron gun which produces an electron beam in a region where a nonuniform magnetic field and an electric field cross perpendicularly. The tube has the following features: 1. Increase in the beam current density makes possible a reduction in the accelerating voltage to 6 to 8 kV (that is, 20 to 30% lower than that of ordinary cathode-ray tubes) while maintaining the same screen brightness. 2. By using a directly heated cathode only 0.7 to 1.0 sec is necessary for warm-up, and only about 0.4 watt of heater power is required. 3. By an ion-trap effect, the fluorescent screen is protected from damage caused by negative ion bombardment. Accordingly, the thickness of the metal back layer can be reduced greatly to the limiting value required for good reflectivity. Furthermore, a long life can be expected because of a reduced probability of bombardment of the cathode with positive ions. 4. Cutoff voltage is --20 to -30 volts or about 1/3 to 1/2 that of ordinary tubes. The paper includes an analysis of electron motion in crossed fields with a nonuniform magnetic field. The equilibrium condition required to produce the electron beam in such crossed fields can be derived in terms of the magnetic field distribution function. The paper also shows practical configuration of electrodes and magnet and current characteristics of the gun."
"Mosaic sensors incorporating thin-film and silicon techniques are being investigated. An experimental solid-state television camera incorporating a 256 × 256 element photoconductive array, scanned by integrated thin-film decoders, has been built. The array comprises 65,536 photoconductor-diode elements, connected to perpendicular address-strips spaced upon 2.08 mil centers. Vertical scanning is accomplished by means of a 256-output diode decoder deposited by thin-film teehniques on the same substrate with the array. Horizontal scanning circuits, including a transistor decoder, videocoupling transistors, and capacitors are deposited on a second glass substrate, which is joined to the first and interconnected by thin-film techniques. The two substrates are attached to a printed-circuit card for convenient plugging into the camera. The entire array is scanned in 1/60 second at a clock rate of 4.8 MHz, permitting the picture to be displayed on a standard television monitor. Operating sensitivity was increased by the use of a high-gain photoconductor, in combination with charge-storage for a line-period. Silicon photodiode arrays of novel construction, permitting close spacing between elements, have been scanned with thin-film addressing circuits. The relative merits of silicon-vs.-thin-film techniques for image-sensors will be discussed."
"Microwave oscillator modules for operation at X and S-band have been designed which use Gunn devices as the rf power source. More than 10 mW CW at X-band and 20 watts pulsed at S-band has been obtained. The microstrip circuit, together with the necessary filters and blocking capacitor, is produced on an alumina substrate in a single operation using photolithographic techniques. Electronic tuning is achieved by the incorporation of a series mounted varactor diode. Microstrip circulators have been developed for use in both TR and injection locking applications. The design of the circuit elements and their combination to achieve the optimum output power and tuning range is discussed. The injection locking characteristic and the variation of frequency and output power with temperature are described."
"Recent efforts toward realization of integrated microwave diode phase-shifters have utilized hybrid technology, i.e., ceramic substrates and beam lead diodes. These techniques, however, do not as easily lend themselves to designs at frequencies as high as KU-Band. Small variations in diode placement can cause significant phase errors. Fabrication in monolithic form not only provides the accurate component placement limited only by photo-resist techniques, but also provides the cost advantage inherent in totally integrated-circuit processing."
"This paper describes the application of rapidly developing microwave hybrid integrated-circuit techniques to an S-band receiver front end. Fabrication techniques similar to those used for mass production of lower frequency integrated circuits were utilized, including selective etch of vapor-deposited thin films."
"Recent studies of avalanche breakdown have led to a thorough understanding of the noise properties of a stable-burning avalanche discharge in a reverse biased silicon p-n junction. Avalanche diodes specially designed for uniform breakdown are nearly ideal noise sources because of their high noise output, high efficiency, broad bandwidth, low temperature dependence and high reliability. In order to reduce circuit parasitics, volume, and weight we have integrated an optimized avalanche diode with its current regulating bias circuit into a microstrip-line circuit on a ceramic substrate. Such a microwave noise source has a potential frequency range from dc to 18 GHz thus replacing one temperature limit diode and six gas discharge tubes required to cover the same range. The noise source can be biased from an unregulated voltage supply with 20 to 35 v and approximately 30 mA. The following preliminary measurements were obtained: The spectral noise power density was found to be > 30 db above kT from 1 to 11 GHz with a spectral density variation within ± 0.7 db. Tuning out reflections from connectors and adaptors reduced the spectral density variation to less than ± 0.2 db from 2.0 to 5.5 GHz and to less than ± 0.3 db from 8.0 to 11.2 GHz. The stability was found to be better than ± 0.01 db over a 12-hr period and better than ± 0.1 db over a 500-hr period. The temperature dependence, of the spectral power density measured at 2.5 GHz was found to be better than --0.002 db/°C. The dependence of spectral power density on bias voltage was better than -0.005 db/v. To study the reproducibility of diode fabrication we mounted 20 diodes in microwave pill packages. At a bias current of 20 mA the spectral power density at 10 GHz was 33.0 db with a spread of ± 0.15 db for 18 of the 20 diodes."
"A laminar subsidiary resonance limiter that reduces the threshold power level for limiting by an order of magnitude has been developed. The design was derived from a computer investigation of the effects of ferrite demagnetizing factors on threshold power level for ferromagnetic limiting. Minimum threshold power level is achieved when the demagnetizing factor in the direction of the applied dc biasing field is zero. This occurs only in a needle geometry. Multiple needles are required to have sufficient ferromagnetic material for effective limiting. A laminar design consisting of alternate ferromagnetic and dielectric rods is used to obtain dc magnetic field isolation between the ferrite rods. This design gives the desired dc magnetic field demagnetizing factors while providing a dominant mode propagation path for the microwave signal. An X-band limiter has been developed. It consists of 11 rectangular YIG rods separated by dielectric rods of the same dimensions and mounted on the narrow side of RG-52/U X-band waveguide. A combination of polycrystal and single-crystal YIG rods are used to increase the dynamic range of the limiter. The waveguide structure also effectively eliminates high-loss magnetostatic modes. The limiter has a threshold power of 2 watts and a dynamic range greater than 30 db. The insertion loss is less than 0.5 db over the frequency range of 8.5 to 9.3 GHz. Techniques for further reducing the threshold, utilizing rf magnetic field concentration techniques, will also be described."
"Silicon monolithic integrated circuits have been developed with a voltage capability (LVCEO) in excess of 300 volts. Novel process, device and circuit design techniques have been combined to achieve this voltage capability at a high yield. The design approach, integration and performance of three linear integrated circuits will be discussed: a video amplifier for direct connection to a TV picture tube, a gain block designed to extend the output voltage swing of operation amplifiers to ± 100 volts and a voltage regulator operating in the range from 10 to 300 volts."
"The design of a bipolar shift register array using discretionary interconnection techniques is presented. The array which includes clock drivers and output buffer circuits interfaces directly with T2L and has a fanout drive capability of 10. It operates from D C. to 15 MHz at a power dissipation of only 4 mw per bit including all clock drivers. Eight separate registers and four separate clock frequencies are possible on a single array."
"A silicon monolithic current switch emitter follower circuit with switching speed of 300 picoseconds has been fabricated. The transistors employed have the following characteristics: emitter size = 0.075 × 0.5 mil; the collector junction depth = 0.55 micron; metallurgical base width = 1200Å: gain bandwidth product = 12.6 GHz (at VCB=2.0 v); collector base capacitance = 0.08 pf: emitter transition capacitance = 0.045 pf. The dc and ac characteristics of the transistor are presented in detail. New measurement techniques are described, and oseillograms of switching response are included."
"Nongold doped transistors can exhibit low storage times if they are prevented from going into heavy saturation. A Schottky barrier diode placed across the collector-base junction can be used to control transistor storage times. Such a device is referred to as a Schottky barrier diode transistor (SBDT). This paper discusses the effects on storage time and saturation voltage of variations in the design of SBDT's."
"A new integrated circuit bipolar semiconductor memory cell, a \"charge-storage flip-flop,\" requiring an extremely low effective standby power(\\sim 10^{-9}W)is described. The cell can operate with less than 100 nsec. read-erase-write cycle time and consumes power only during one of these operations. It can store information for a relatively long time (∼ 0.5 sec in preliminary measurements) without drawing current from the power supply. The information is prevented from being lost simply by \"reading-out\" at least once during this period. Write-in can be accomplished by applying voltage to a flip-flop in the presence of an imbalance introduced by the information signal. After the voltage is removed the transistors are prevented from discharging so that when the voltage is applied again for read-out purposes, the flip-flop assumes its previous state."
"The high-speed performance of saturated logic circuits are generally limited by collector storage time, Gold diffusion is commonly used to minimize minority-carrier lifetime, at the expense of increased junction leakage currents and increased collector resistance. This paper describes the use of compatible aluminum-silicon Schottky diodes connected in parallel with collector-base junctions. In this configuration the excess base current flows almost entirely through the Schottky diode resulting in a considerable reduction of the transistor storage time and eliminating the need for gold diffusion."
"A C-Band broadband coupled cavity TWT, and an S-Band PPM focused helix TWT will be described along with the experimental results of more than 50% efficiency. The high efficiency is in part achieved with the voltage elevation of the last few cavities of the circuit or the last few turns of the helix. Further efficiency improvement is obtained with a double stage collector in which only the second stage is biased."
"A low-noise traveling wave tube amplifier operating over the double band from 8-18 GHz with a maximum noise figure of 8.5 db has recently been developed. This amplifier has a nominal small signal gain of 30 db, a gain variation of less than 6 db and a saturated power output of +5 to +10 dbm. The low-noise figure and power output performance exceeds that of presently available Ku-Band amplifiers, and is comparable to presently available X-Band amplifiers as well. The amplifier package, consisting of tube, magnet and integral power supply, weighs 18 lb, has a maximum height of 4.75 in. and is 12 in. long."
"In octave bandwidth TWT's the generation of power at harmonic frequencies can result in seriously degraded tube and system performance. Efficiency degradation and relatively high second harmonic power content lie at the root of the encountered difficulties."
"A medium-power, PPM-focused, low-noise TWT has been developed for the 4 to 8 GHz bandwidth. Through special cathode shaping techniques and beam velocity profile in the gun region, a noise figure of 13.5 db maximum has been attained over the entire band. This achievement in itself is not particularly startling, but when coupled with the fact that the tube has a saturated power output of 5 watts minimum, the combination represents an elevation in the state of the art. The design employs a tungsten impregnated cathode operating at 2.1 amps/cm2. The low noise figures have been obtained with both negative- and cathode-potential-grid guns employing beam divergence at the cathode surface. The helix design of the tube is loaded in a simple geometric fashion so as to give 3-1/2 db small signal gain flatness at the 45 db gain level over the octave. The tube is magnetically shielded and is fully environmentalized."
"Experimental results are presented for several types of superpower amplifiers using centipede, and hybIid Twystron (R) circuits. The centipede slow-wave circuit element uses a loop type of coupling from cavity to cavity. The fundamental mode is a forward wave because of the negative mutual-inductance type of coupling created by reversed loops."
"This paper discusses the realization of a packaged 10.6 micron heterodyne receiver for field operational use, which combines sensitivity near 10-19watt/Hz with an instantaneous IF bandwidth from 10 MHz to 1.2 GHz. These characteristics are essential for its intended application in space communication experiments where extremes in range and doppler frequency shift are encountered."
"A high power CO laser capable of both CW and Q-switched operation has been constructed. Maximum CW power and efficiency obtained from the device are 20 watts and 9%, respectively. Lasing occurs simultaneously on various wavelengths from 5.0 to 5.7 microns, corresponding to transitions between successive vibrational levels azithv \\geq 4. The laser is a flowing system with N2and He gas additives. The, discharge tube, 60 inches long and 0.75 inches inside diameter, is cooled to 80°K by immersion in a liquid nitrogen bath."
"An active laser frequency stabilization scheme involving the use of an internally vibrated laser mirror has been successfully used to stabilize the output of a two-meter long, sealed-off CO2laser operating at powers greater than 20 watts. Long-term frequency variations in the laser were reduced from a free-running stability of about 4 parts in 107to a peak variation of 1 part in 108by this electronic technique. Heterodyne beat frequency measurements were used to obtain the data. The laser short-term stability was improved by hermetically sealing the region between the GaAs Brewster windows and the laser mirrors."
"Over 1 watt of continuous ultraviolet output has been obtained from an argon ion laser in the 3500-3700Å range. This paper describes the discharge tube structure used and the operating characteristics of high-power ultraviolet laser transitions in argon and other noble gas ions. Operation at new wavelengths as well as CW operation of transitions previously observed only in pulsed operation are reported. Measurements of the dependence of spontaneous emission intensity fronl different ionization states on current and pressure are related to the excitation mechanisms for visible and uv ion lasers. The technique of population modulation by intracavity interruption has been used to study processes in the throat and uniform bore regions of ion laser discharges. The results of these studies are described. Problems encountered in the CW operation of ion laser discharge tubes at current densities above 1000Å/cm2are described."
"The 4416Å transition in CdII was the first metal vapor system to exhibit CW laser action. The system appears to be one of the most simple and efficient lasers operating in the visible region of the spectrum. At the present time, peak powers of 100 mW and gains as high as 35% per meter have been observed along with relatively high efficiencies. The laser has been successfully operated without the use of an externally controlled furnace by thermally insulating the discharge region and using the discharge current to heat the metal to the necessary vapor pressure. The excitation mechanism is believed to be a Penning ionization in the form of a He metastable colliding with a neutral metal atom and exciting it to the upper laser level of the ion. The excess energy is taken up by the ejected electron. This mechanism can be applied to other metal vapor systems and several new CW laser transitions will be discussed."
"Display panels which are inherently coordinate selection devices are ideally suited to provide graphical output for digital computing machines. In order that digital information may be written on such a display panel, rapid access must be provided to a large number of coordinate lines. The selection system described in this paper employs submatrices of linear transformers selected by low-power transistor circuitry and provides pulses of defined voltage of either sign and of specified duration. The system was specifically designed for a 1024 × 1024 gas-charge display panel, which will be briefly described, but could be useful for other displays requiring voltage-selection."
"A system for the generation, transmission, local storage, and subsequent display of computer-generated arbitrary two-level pictures has been developed. It is capable of providing flicker-free displays without continuing expenditure of computer time. Users may interact with the display by means of a light-pen, tablet, etc., by adding a locally-generated cursor. The system is capable of serving approximately 120 remote consoles, if each requires a new picture every 20 seconds. The picture-quality is commensurate with that of high-quality closed-circuit television systems."
"Employing a novel electrostatic configuration, the Deformographic Storage Display Tube (DSDT) incorporates the fast point-by-point light-valve capability of the Eidorphor® technique and the two-sealed-chamber construction of the Electrostatic Storage Display Tube, an earlier IBM development. In the DSDT, a thin mica diaphragm stores the charges written by the electron gun, while the resultant electrostatic field deforms a transparent dielectric elastomer film cast on its other surface (in the second chamber). The optical phase-image thus created is converted by a separate light-source and schlieren optics into a large-screen projected image, which has high contrast, and brightness. The DSDT technique permits selective erasure and update, or erasure by flood-beam. Variable persistence provides image-storage from 20 hrs. or more down to an erase-time of 15 ms. The latter, in conjunction with 15 ms develop-time, is equivalent to TV frame-speed. Spot-size of 2.5 mils has been measured, with the expected limit around 1.5 mils. Sensitivity of <10-7coulombs/cm2for writing permits recording at TV scan-speed."
"In this paper we present the results of recent experiments with a high-performance stop-action holography system. The system is centered around a giant-pulse ruby laser oscillator-amplifier combination that produces 30 nsec pulses containing up to 10 joules of energy. The exceptional property of this system is that the output is essentially fully coherent at full pulse-energy. As a result, high-quality holograms can be made in reflected light from subjects that occupy a volume of several cubic meters. Holograms of diffusely reflecting subjects made with this system have consistently yielded reconstructions equal in brightness and image-quality to the best gas-laser holograms. These results were obtained in spite of the fact that parts of the scene were moving at velocities up to 10 m/sec. In other words, successful reconstructions were obtained from parts of the scene which had moved through distances greater than one-half wavelength during exposure of the hologram."
"This paper presents the results of a design study demonstrating the feasibility of fabricating an all-solid-state alphanumeric display-terminal utilizing modular, expandable construction and ultra-high-contrast vacuum-deposited thin-film electroluminescent displays."
"Since the Laminated Overlay Transistor (LOT) was first reported at the IEDM in 1967 considerable advances have been made with regard to technology, device design, and performance of this \"three-dimensional\" transistor structure."
"A transistor capable of switching 1.2 amp in less than 10 ns has been developed for application in Memory drive circuits packaged using hybrid technology. The transistor was designed in glassed-chip form for high volume automatic handling, testing, and mounting equipment. One of the design goals was achievement of reliability without additional hermetic seals."
"When the emitter base junction of a silicon planar transistor is reverse biased beyond avalanche, the low current hFEof that device, under normal operating conditions, can be degraded by as much as 90%. It will be shown that this avalanche stress causes a localized increase in the surface recombination velocity. If during normal operation the emitter base junction intersects the surface in the region of increased recombination velocity, hFEis decreased. No relationship was found to exist between this localized increase in surface recombination and oxide contamination. The effect can be completely annealed in five minutes at 300°C."
"An analysis of base widening and the current dependence of the cutoff frequency fThas been given previously by Kirk. His approximate analysis is based on the location of the edges of transition regions, whose definition becomes problematic in transistors having nonuniform base doping and at high current levels. An alternate theory of fTfalloff at high currents has recently been given with the implication that base widening does not occur. This paper presents numerical solutions based on a one-dimensional model (with realistic doping profile) of an npn epitaxial transistor at low reverse collector bias at various current densities ranging from low level injection to high level injection. Solutions for electric field, hole and electron densities as functions of distance are shown. At low-injection levels, a high-field region exists near the transition between base and expitaxial layer. This high-field region is relocated to the interface between epitaxial layer and substrate under high injection conditions. Numerical solutions of delay time as a function of current density, calculated frown a charge control point of view, are also given. The results show that the delay time increases sharply in the current range where \"field relocation\" takes place. Whether \"base widening\" occurs is a matter of semantics. However, the physically observable effects predicted by Kirk for a one-dimensional structure are shown to occur."
"The mechanism responsible for the injection efficiency of highly doped asymmetrical pn-junctions remains as one of the unanswered questions of pn-junction theory. To account for the experimentally measured injection ratio an extremely low lifetime must be assumed in the more highly doped region. This lifetime may be four to five orders of magnitude lower than that existing in the adjacent junction space-charge layer. The arbitrary assignment of a low lifetime to the heavily doped region has not been previously justified."
"Numerical techniques are applied to analyze the complete integrated transistor including the emitter, base and collector. Continuity relationships for electrons and holes and expressions for electron and hole mobility are solved in two dimensions, to obtain the electron and hole densities and current density vectors throughout the complete device. Boundary conditions for contacts, surfaces, and isolation regions are also included."
"The classical transistor theory developed by Shockley and later extended to high currents by Webster is based on division of the transistor into physically defined regions. Details of the electron density and electric field are limited to the base region. Inherent in the classical theory is a monotonically decreasing injected-minority-carrier density in the base region. More complex injected-carrier-density profiles have been shown to exist by Lindmayer and Wrigley for the junction diode. In all of these approaches base widening is prevented by the assumption of operation under \"perfect sink conditions.\""
"We have observed reverse current-voltage characteristics of metal-silicide Schottky diodes that are in good agreement with a theoretical model based upon a synthesis of the thermionic and diffusion theories of barrier rectification. The theory incorporates the effects of image-force lowering of the potential barrier and the scattering of electrons by the absorption and generation of optical phonons in the depletion layer adjacent to the interface. The effect of interface states upon the potential barrier height has also been included in the model. Thus it has been possible to estimate the density of the interface states from the measured I-V characteristics."
"Point contact and conventionally fabricated oxide-passivated silicon Schottky barrier diodes are characterized by large amounts of excess noise at video frequencies. This noise usually severely degrades the sensitivity of these diodes as video detectors. The requirement for high detection sensitivities and low noise has led to the use of tunnel and back diodes in many detector applications, despite some inherent disadvantages such as low video resistance and poor resistance to accidental burnout. The purpose of the work to be described here was to develop an oxide-passivated Schottky barrier doide with no excess noise, suitable for use as a Video detector at 10 GHz."
"The influence of metal barrier height and diffusion profile on the charge storage characteristics of p-n junction guard ring or \"hybrid\" Schottky barrier diodes is discussed and examined experimentally. It is shown that the use of high barrier height metals, such as gold or platinum silicide on n-type silicon can severely limit high speed device operation at high forward current levels, due to minority carrier injection by the p-n junction. It is further shown that essentially majority carrier operation (i.e., no charge storage effects) can be maintained at high drive levels with the use of lower barrier height metals in combination with properly controlled surface concentration of the diffused p-type guard ring."
"A new technique for plotting doping profiles, CIP, involves driving a Schotky diode deposited on the surface of a semiconductor wafer with a small constant RF current (a few hundred microamps at 5 MHz). The depth of depletion layer is varied by changing the dc bias, but this is the only role of the dc voltage. The inverse doping profile n-1(x) is obtained by monitoring the voltage across the dbde at the fundamental frequency, which is proportional to the depth x, and the second harmonic voltage, which is proportional to n-1. An X-Y recorder is used directly to plot n-1as a function of x as the dc voltage is varied. If desired, an analog divider circuit could be added to invert the n-1signal so that n would be plotted. This type of plotter has the advantages of simplicity, high resolution (limited only by the Debye length in most cases), immediate results and a large reduction in cost. It can also be used to evaluate junction devices."
"This paper describes the results of an engineering program for fabricating bipolar LSI arrays consisting of 100 to 200 gates from fixed interconnect masks. The arrays are high-speed ECL arithmetic registers to be used in the demonstration LIMAC (Large Integrated Monolithic Array Computer) for the Air Force. Special processing techniques were found to improve yields sufficiently to make direct fabrication of these complex devices practicable."
"An integrated circuit package utilizing beam-lead sealed junction (BLSJ) silicon chips either singly or in multiple arrays consists of a ceramic (99.5% Al2O3) substrate with a thin film metallic conductor pattern. The beam-leaded chip (or chips) is thermocompression bonded to the metallizing pattern and coated with a silicone resin for protection from humidity and surface contamination. External leads are also TC bonded to the metallizing pattern for connection to the outside world."
"The object of this work was to evaluate silicon films crosslinked by electron irradiation as an insulating layer for multilayer interconnections in integrated circuits. It is now possible to make insulating layers of polymer silicones with micron-size patterns by electron beam techniques."
"Master reticles for a high performance integrated circuit have been fabricated with the aid of a computer graphics program, Mask 8, developed at MIT Lincoln Laboratory. The program allows the circuit engineer to design integrated circuits from an on-line terminal connected to the TX-2 Computer. Inputs to the program are provided by means of a stylus and tablet. Simple hand-drawn symbols allow drafting, placement, and erasure of transistors, resistors, isolation regions and metal connections which are displayed on a cathode-ray tube. Design rules appropriate to the technology are incorporated into the graphics program. The program allows display of all mask levels and provides a paper tape output which can be fed into a photographic pattern generator to produce a set of 10X master reticles. A short film will illustrate the performance of the graphics program."
"This reports the application of spatial filtering to integrated circuit photomask inspection. Experiments were performed that used intensity filters and took advantage of the grating effect of the periodic array. A stop filter corresponding to the periodic distance was placed at the diffraction plane. The transmitted image showed tip the nonperiodic errors, i.e., contamination pinholes, scratches, missing or extra features and incorrectly registered patterns."
"A few years ago, MEC developed a 12.5 kW, 7.7 to 8.4 GHz TWT and Transmitter Power Supply for use in ground stations for satellite communications. Because it was necessary to build the power supply and TWT simultaneously, and since the TWT was an order of magnitude higher in power output than existing TWT's at that time, and ultra-conservative approach was used in the design of the power supply and its associated protection and nine input fault channels--circuitry so complex and sensitive that many turnoffs of the equipment resulted from spurious triggers in the system alone."
"Performance characteristics are presented for an 8-kw CW coupled cavity traveling wave tube along with some unique design techniques employed in achieving this performance. The tube is designed and will be shown to meet or exceed the stringent requirements of commercial ground satellite communication systems."
"For the Intelsat family of communication satellites, stringent requirements are placed on the traveling-wave tubes in the form of high efficiency and low distortion characteristics. In this paper particular attention is given to AM/PM and intermodulation distortion. Results from a computer program which for the first time allows accurate extension from small signal theory to saturated operation are presented. A brief physical insight into the basic causes of AM/PM conversion is given, together with distortion measurements made on the Intelsat III output TWT and an Intelsat IV output TWT uader development. Very good correlation with computer prediction is demonstrated. The necessary design tradeoff between low distortion and high efficiency is discussed."
"Travelling-wave tubes for space applications must be designed for the high reliability, long life, and environments typical of this application. This paper will be given in two parts. The first part describes a 20-watt, S-band travelling-wave tube developed for use where critical data must be transmitted during or after exposure to high-impact shock loading at levels up to 10,000 G for 1 millisecond duration. This tube is ppm focused with a typical performance of 24 watts power output at 30% overall efficiency and 41 db gain."
"This paper will be presented in two parts. The first presents the latest advances in precision gain and phase-matched amplifiers. A set of three C-Band low-noise traveling-wave amplifiers has been gain and phase matched to stringent combination of electrical and environmental speeifications for a new mono-pulse radar system. No previous C-Band amplifiers of any kind have attained such a low noise figure (about 5 db at room temperature) with a power output of 20 milliwatts. In addition, these units are required to remain extremely gain and phase stable over a wide temperature range, to be gain and phase matched, and meet numerous other specifications sueh as low VSWR, fine grain, spurious PM, tube-to-tube interaction, and low AM-PM conversion. These results, which are important for designers of sensitive mono-pulse and phase array radar receivers with wide dynamic range, are a significant advance with respect to those reported by the author two years ago. At that time, the best gain stability achivable over a wide temperature range was ±1 db. The best phase stability consistently achieved was ±15°."
"The CW power level of octave bandwidth helix type traveling wave tubes can be increased by an order of magnitude by brazing the helix support rods to the helix and to the tube shell to obtain good thermal contact. Two traveling wave tubes utilizing such brazed helices will be described: a 2000-watt CW, solenoid focused, 2-4 GHz tube, and a 500-watt CW, PPM focused, 4-8 GHz tube. Features of the electrical and mechanical design and test results will be presented."
"Recent improvements in construction techniques for helix type TWT's have made possible the development of broadband, PPM focused TWT's. These tubes have found wide application in communication, radar and ECM systems."
"Liquid-phase epitaxial n-type layers, grown on pieces from the same p-type solution-grown substrate (0.07m%Zn, 0.02m%Ga2O3in melt), with a variable tellurium concentration in the tipping charge, have been investigated. Two groups of mesa diodes were fabricated (junction-area is 7.3 × 10-4cm-2): (1) from as-grown p-n layers and (2) from layers annealed in forming-gas (600°C, 6 hr). Electrical and optical measurements have been made on these diodes to learn about the physical processes limiting diode efficiencies."
"A new electric-field-controlled reflective optical storage effect has been discovered in mixed nematic-cholesteric liquid-crystal systems. Ion motion produced by a dc electric field is used to emulsify the initial transparent mixture and give it a milky-white appearance. This state remains after the dc signal is removed. The material can be returned to its initial state by applying an audio-frequency signal. The reflective contrast ratio of 7:1, flat construction, low voltage and power writing capability, and storage with continuous readout, requiring no maintaining power, make. the new effect seem attractive for indicator-type applications using solid-state addressing circuitry."
"To our knowledge this represents the first report of a reflective television display operating \"off-the-air.\" The display uses the dynamic scattering mode (DSM) in nematic liquid-crystals and can be viewed in high-brightness ambients. The liquid-crystal cell, 1/4 - 1/2 mil thick, was addressed in real-time by means of an electron beam, using a wire-mosaic faceplate on a demountable cathode-ray tube. Two different liquid-crystal materials: anisylidene para-amino phenyl acetate (APAPA) and an RCA-proprietary room-temperature liquid-crystal were tested, with similar results except for the difference in operating temperature (82-110°C and room-temperature, respectively)."
"The design of an electroluminescent diode involves a tradeoff among optical, thermal, and electrical characteristics. The low absorption coefficient and high refractive index of the gallium phosphide cause the light to spread over a large volume of the semiconductor. Consequently, the optical properties of contacts and surface conditions are critical even when they are well removed from the junction. Low absorption coefficients in the bulk and at the surface, small area wafers and contacts, hemisphere shaped device geometry and anti-reflecting coating contribute to the external quantum efficiency. The internal quantum efficiency is affected by the temperature and the current density of the junction."
"The need of low-voltage de electroluminescent devices that emit in the visible portion of the spectrum is well-recognized. Devices composed of p-n junctions of binary or ternary III-V semiconductors exhibit high injection-efficiency but have poor internal quantum-efficiency, particularly in the green where the eye-response is the greatest. Furthermore, the all-important consideration of contrast as a criterion for display-effectiveness makes luminescence in a narrow visible band all the more useful. Such narrow-bandedness is not present in a nonlasing mode of a III-V device."
"Electroluminescence in semiconductors is usually produced by recombination of electron-hole pairs either directly or via recombination centers. Another possible mechanism is the excitation of a center from its ground state to an excited state via direct electron impact which subsequently undergoes radiative decay. We report here on a new materials system in which the latter mechanism is dominantly operative and which shows some promise of utilization in electroluminescent devices. The system consists of rare-earth or transition metal ions which are incorporated as fluoride molecules in a II-VI compound semiconductor. Externally injected carriers are heated by an electric field to energies sufficient to put the ion in an excited state upon collision, much like a gas discharge. The creation of electron-hole pairs is not necessary or even desirable."
"The most important device parameter of an electroluminescent diode is the external quantum efficiency. This in turn is influenced by the properties of the junction (injection efficiency), by the recombination processes in the bulk material (recombination efficiency), and by the optical properties of the semiconductor (optical efficiency). This paper shows how the three effects can be separated by measuring photoluminescent efficiencies in various dielectric media along with electroluminescent efficiencies and Hall parameters. The external electroluminescent quantum efficiency of the diode can be predicted from measurements on the annealed wafers on the basis of the above information."
"The emission spectra of the following molecular centers in ZnS lumocen films have been studied over the range from 3500Å to 1.1µ and have been related whenever possible, to known energy level schemes: PrF3, NdF3, SmF3, TbF3, DyF3, ErF3, EuF3, HoF3, EuF2, CrF3, and MnF2. In addition, lifetimes have been measured for the fluorescing states giving rise to the most prominent emission in the first five of the above. The devices were of the following configuration: Electrode 1 - dielectric - ZnS lumocen film approximately 2000Å thick formed by co-evaporation of ZnS powder and fluoride - Electrode 2 of thin gold serving also as the emission window."
"Summary form only given, as follows. The complete presentation was not made available for publication as part of the conference proceedings. Investigations on receiving-type electron tube processing methods were made because of high rate of electroh tube failures experienced in USAF electronic equipment subjected to high temperatures. The tube type selected for these investigations was the 6AR6 tried in two versions, distinguished from each other only by the processing and aging patterns applied. Both versions were subjected to a high temperature life test specified at 300°C bulb temperature. The result obtained was r~lated t.o the processing pattern applied in each of the versions tried. In the case of setting the transconductance slump at the limit of 10 per cent, the 6AR6 procegsed on the sealex exhaust system did not comply with the specified limit. It was found, however, that the 6AR6 subjected to an improved processing schedule was capab~g of complying with the specified limit. In following up these investigations, a project was initiated relating to the design and construction of an improved exhaust equipment incorporating advanced processing features and applicable to full scale electron tube production to be used for USAF electronic equipment operating at high temperatures. This project forms a part of the current USAF electron tube program aimed at continuously improving modern aircraft reliability."
"This paper presents experimental and theoretical work on a new type of two-port solid state traveling wave amplifier using an IMPATT diode The simplest structure is along, narrow avalanching junction in the form of a strip transmission line with the dc current flow normal to the direction of propagation. Such a structure will propagate growing waves over a range of frequencies determined by the avalanche current density. The characteristic impedance, phase velocity and gain (or loss) of the devices are also functions of the avalanche current."
"This paper describes the experimental results obtained with an x-band reflection amplifier using vopor phase epitaxial, GaAs p-n junctions biased into avalanche breakdown. The noise figures obtained with a large number of these diodes are significantly lower than those reported for Si or Ge diodes. Noise figures as low as 17 db and power gains in excess of 30 db have been repeatedly measured with diodes operated at current densities of the order of 200 amperes/cm2. The corresponding published noise figures for Si and Ge avalanche diode amplifiers range from 30 to 40 db. Detailed measurements on an amplifier tunable from 8.2 to 9.4 GHz for various bias and coupling conditions are discussed. The results presented include complete gain, noise, and dynamic range characteristics. The properties of the vapor hydride epitaxial material and the construction details of the chemically formed mesa diodes are also presented."
"In this paper a fundamental oscillating frequency of 129 GHz is obtained with a GaAs pn junction diode in which avalanche current co-exists with tunnel effeetl These GaAs diodes are produced by the solution growth method. Oscillations are seen when the diodes are pulsed into reverse bias. The low breakdown voltages observed require consideration of both tunneling and avalanche current components. In 1958, the negative resistance diode oscillator using both the avalanche phenomena and transit time effect in pn junction has been proposed by W. T. Read and by J. Nishizawa et al independently, and a large number of experimental reports concerning the above oscillator operating at microwave and mm wave frequencies have been published. It is necessary especially for obtaining oscillation with good efficiency in mm wave region that the transit time of the tunneling or avalanche injecting region be very small compared with the transit time layer width. In pn junctions if the depletion layer is of the order of the mean free path of carrier ionization, injection current flows by tunneling and not by avalanche. Therefore, by our experiment higher frequency oscillation is expected by combining tunnelling injection with transit time. Moreover the tunnelling injection can reduce the applied voltage for the oscillation and 129 GHz can be obtained with only 8 volt. The efficiency is expected to be increased with a pnin structure which is now being studied."
"It is well known that current can flow between two metal electrodes, separated by a thin oxide or insulator layer of the order of 50Å thick, by means of the electric-tunnel effect. Estimates have been made that it requires 10-16sec for an electron to tunnel from one electrode to the other. Calculations by Simmons and others have shown that for low voltages dissimilar electrode junctions are to a first approximation ohmic. We show in this paper that to a second approximation an asymmetry square law dependence appears for an ideal trapezoidal barrier, Which can lead to detection. The I-V curves and responsivity (volts/watt) of the detector are calculated for typical parameters."
"Conductivity modulation in n-type indium antimonide at liquid helium temperatures has proven to be useful in making millimeter wave mixers and detectors. The conductivity modulation arises from the heating of the electrons by the applied electric fields. An important material parameter characterizing this heating process is the electron energy relaxation time. Knowledge of this time allows one to determine the responsivity and response time of a detector or the conversion loss and maximum usable intermediate frequency of a mixer. Since the energy relaxation time in InSb at 4.2°K is approximately 10-7sec. the intermediate frequency cannot be made higher than 1 MHz. In order to avoid noise close tO the nominal frequency of the local oscillator, it is important to investigate the operation of InSb mixers at higher ambient temperatures where shorter energy relaxation times have been observed."
"The paper illustrates a new technique to define narrow windows in SiO2layers by means of a carefully controlled undercut in SiO2/Si3N4flims, The method described takes advantage of the etching propertie of the silicon nitride and of its action as a mask against oxygen diffusion. Stripe Widths less than 1µ were obtained with good definition and uniformity on the whole wafer and without the difficulties normally encountered in micron-line photoengraving. The technique gives reproducible results, requires one masking operation only and seems to be suitable as a production process."
"High frequency, high current operation of thyristors requires simultaneous consideration of turn-off time, di/dt and dv/dt capability. The frequency of operation and the type of circuit dictate the turn-off time and dv/dt which are required of a device. These two parameters are established by suitable gold doping to control the minority carrier lifetime and by employing \"shorted emitter\" techniques to ccntrol the low current alpha's of the device. In addition, at high currents and voltages, a thyristor's capability of withstanding steep wavefront, high current pulses (i.e., di/dt capability) often also proves to be a major limiting factor in its application. This characteristic is primarily determined by the instantaneous junction temperature; thus, it is essential that localized heating be minimized. Unfortunately, this problem is aggravated by increased dissipation resulting from the lower lifetime that is required to achieve the short turn-off time. In order to minimize the instantaneous temperature rise, a substantial increase in effective conducting area during the turn-on interval is required."
"The \"blocking\" junctions of thyristors such as Silicon Controlled Rectifiers and Triacs having voltaire ratings ≥ 200v are normally fabricated by diffusing a P-type dopant from both top and bottom surfaces of a high resistivity N-type substrate. This approach provides the wide \"N base\" region which is necessary for adequate depletion from either junction at high voltages. Currently, either mesa or planar technologies are used. This paper introduces the biplanar® technology as a third and in many ways more attractive method for fabricating the two high-voltage junctions. The method of forming other junctions in a thyristor is identical in all three technologies and so will not be discussed."
"We wish to report the development of SiC backward diodes, to our knowledge the first devices of this kind. The diodes are fabricated by alloying at 2100° Si to α-SiC doped with Al (1020cm-3) in a nitrogen atmosphere. Following lead attachment we reduce the junction area by electrolytic etching. A typical I-V characteristic shows a conduction knee at a few tenths of a volt in the high-conduction (tunnel) direction, and a \"reverse\" (injection) current of the order of 10 mA at two volts for a junction area of about 10-5cm2."
"An electronic analog model simulating the behaviour of diodes with pin-structure switched from forward to reverse bias is presented. Diodes with a lightly doped middle-region are used as power rectifiers, microwave modulators and step recovery diodes. Under the assumption of high injection and neutrality, the differential equations of the electrons and holes in the middle-region can be represented by a resistance-capacitance network. The conditions at the two boundaries ot the middle-region during the forward and storage period are simulated by constant current sources at the borders of the network. After the storage period the space-charge region of the pi-junction and somewhat later the space-charge region of the in-junction extend reducing the neutral part of the middle-region. This effect is simulated in the analog model by shortening the RC-network piece by piece. The currents at the moving borders of the network are reduced similar to the decreasing diode current during the decay period. Using this analog model the reverse recovery process of diodes with arbitrary doping profiles in the middle-region can be investigated. The model yields terminal properties and some quantities in the interior of the device, such as carrier densities and particle currents, as function of position and time. Results on the influence of forward and reverse currents, doping profile, width and carrier-lifetime in the middle-region are reported."
"A new type of thin-film strain sensor has been conceived. This sensor is a p-n heterojunction diode utilizing polycrystalline semiconductor layers obtained by vacuum evaporation onto an insulating substrate. The device exhibits large shifts in its forward I-V characteristic when subjected to a mechanical strain, and thus functions as a low output impedance voltage source."
"A broadband plasma waveguide switch has been developed which provides greater than 100 db isolation when active and less than 0.2 db insertion loss when passive. The cold loss is under 0.1 db over the mid 10% frequency band. The turn-on time is 100 nanoseconds and the turn-off time is 120 microseconds. The absorbed switch power (arc loss) was measured and found to be negligible under conditions of high ionizing beam strengths and moderate plasma densities. The operation of the switch is very similar to gas thyratrons except that the grid is replaced by a perforated waveguide with no internal resonant structures. Consequently, the device can be simultaneously used as a fail-safe receiver protector and switchtube in (magnetron source) radars; the hybrid nature provides receiver isolation (>100 db) during transmit time since the switchtube must be conducting in order for the magnetron to oscillate. Experiments have shown feasibility of this class of operation."
"This paper describes the various steps taken in a program to provide a 500-mw X-band signal having state-of-the-art signal purity, i.e., one with the least possible AM and FM noise. The design and performance of the final device, a high voltage, convection cooled, low noise two-cavity klystron oscillator matched to a high-Q external stabilizing cavity, is described."
"The Neotron tube represents a significant step forward in the development of low distortion single-sideband tubes. This paper will discuss the rather outstanding single-sideband capabilities of the Neotron, and will include a brief description of the tube, the principles behind its operation and the theoretical reasons for its low disiortion characteristics. The ideal tube, would seem to be one which is quadratic in the area around cut-off, changing to linear at higher levels. This allows the zero signal bias to be set near the center of the quadratic portion. Thus at low levels the signal would be in the quadratic area, and at high levels cross over into the linear area. In this manner zero signal current would be kept low for good efficiency while maintaining low IM distortion. A characteristic curve of this type is obtained in the Neotron through the use of controlled dynamic variation of cathode emitting area."
"A new switching device is described which is capable of operating at several kilovolts and hundreds of amperes at pulse repetition frequencies of at least several tens of pulses per second and at pulse widths continuously adjustable from a few microseconds to dc. The device, which is expected to have an ultimate voltage capability of at least several tens of kilvolts, employs a vacuum arc as an emission source and utilizes an axial magnetic field in a cylindrical geometry for current control. The voltage drop across the switch is a function of the cathode material and is typically from 10 to 20 volts. In the case of a zinc cathode the drop is approximately 15 volts. Preliminary studies of the turn-on anc turn-off times during pulsed operation have shown that these times can be made shorter than 2 microseconds with little difficulty. A qualitative description of the operation of the device is given which is based on published information and on imformation obtained at Cornell Aeronautical Laboratory during several years of studies of vacuum arcs."
"With increasing use of higher-sensitivity detection for both radar and communications applications, there exists an increasing need for reduction in intersystem interference and the control of spurious-signal generation. Normally the duplexer is not considered a contributing source to spurious radiation; however, there has been found evidence of increased spurious-signal generation resulting from installation of duplexers in some systems. The spurious signals appear generally as harmonics of the transmitted frequency."
"This paper describes a new electron-tube technology that incorporates the techniques of miniaturization, high reliability, fast warmup, superactive cathode emission, high-altitude voltage standoff, high impact shock, variable-frequency vibration, and high-and low-temperature operation. This technology makes possible a systems approach to pulsed electron tubes and integral cavities tailored to the needs of the expanding aircraft market. The critical parameters and design objectives for a transponder, an interrogator, and a collision avoidance system are discussed."
"A high-power hydrogen thyratron was developed using a 5949 thyratron cathode assembly. The tube is capable of operating at an epyof 100 kV and an ibof 1000-2000 A. The duty cycle is presently limited by the test modulator circuit. Trigger requirements are 2 kV at 50 Ω with a 2-µsec duration. The jitter was nil when measured with a Tektronix 517-oscilloscope, using a sweep speed of 50 nsec per cm. τad is in the range of 1/4 to 1/2 µsec. The grid-anode geometry is designed for a minimum anode-grid capacitance, thus making for a higher repetition rate tube. It is estimated that the operating gas pressure is in the 300-400 micron range. The field emission limit, up to 100 kV, is not evident in this geometry."
"A new optical-detector has been developed which employs a Channeltron multiplier as the electron-multiplying element. The Channeltron multiplier, which is now extensively usod in space-applications to detect charged particles and low-energy radiation in open-window detectors, has been coupled in a vacuum tube with a photocathode responsive to visible and near-ultraviolet radiation. The result is a small, high-gain, low-noise, highly sensitive, extended-red-responsive S-20 photomultiplier tube. The overall length of the tube is about 2 inches, and its diameter is about 1 inch. Only four electrical connections are required. The photocathode, which is processed externally with respect to the tube-envelope, is masked-off so that only a circular area 1 mm in diameter is used. Freedom from excessive alkali vapors, the small photocathode-area, and the inherently-quiet Channeltron electron-multiplier enable the tube to operate at room-temperature with dark-counts on the order of 10 counts/secord or fewer. Magnetic fields and electrostatic fields have little effect on tube-performance. Gains in excess of 107are readily obtainable."
"A static cross-field photomultiplier having wideband response is one of the promising photodetectors suitable for the optical PCM system that makes use of very short pulses generated from a mode-locked laser. For this purpose, special consideration is given to the realization of a high-quantum-efficiency photosurface and to the design of an output-structure by means of which a flat frequency-response extending from dc up to microwave frequencies can be obtained."
"A new type of photodetector, based on an MOS capacitor structure, is described. It is based on the fact that surface-states under the gate-electrode can act as very efficient recombination centers when the device is operated with a large ac signal. Thus a surface inversion-layer can be depleted of carriers by pumping a gate-electrode located within a much larger oxidized area. The structure investigated here consisted of an SiO2mesa of 0.2 cm diameter on a p-type silicon substrate with two gate-electrodes, each of 3.8×10-2cm diameter. The conditions for observation of the pumping effect are as follows: (1) Inversion of the oxidized portion by built-in positive charge, (2) moderate surface-state density, and (3) low thermal generation-rate of minority carriers. The pumping effect is detected by measuring the capacitance of the second gate-electrode while the pumping signal is applied to the first electrode. In the pumped condition the entire oxidized surface is very tight-sensitive. The device can be operated in two modes, the integrating mode, where the filling of the initially depleted channel is observed, and the compensating mode, where the pumping frequency is varied to compensate the light-intensity. Cooling to 77°K makes the generation-rate so low that the device stays in the pumped state for many hours. Therefore very low light-levels can be integrated ever this time. Quantum-efficiency for photons arriving at the Si surface is unity under these conditions. Advantages of the device are simplicity of design, large sensitive area, no conductive semitransparent layers over the active part of the device, and sensitivity far into the ultraviolet range."
"The advent of the Neodymium-doped laser has created a demand for multi-element detection devices having large sensitive-areas, high uniform quantum-efficiencies, fast response, low capacitance, and minimum dead-space between adjacent elements. Silicon p-i-n photodiodes can be made to satisfy these requirements, provided the starting material is either sufficiently pure, or the degree of compensation sufficiently good, to enable the desired depletion-depths to be obtained. Multi-element devices have been described previously in which the lithium-ion-drift technique was used to achieve the described degree of compensation. These devices performed adequately at room-temperature but were found to deteriorate with age when used at elevated temperatures. In this paper improved photodiodes are described which are fabricated from hyperpure silicon. Techniques have been developed for maintaining the net concentration of donor and acceptor ions in the intrinsic layer to less than 5 × 1011/cm3, so that fully depleted p-i-n structures with intrinsic layers up to 1 mm in thickness are now possible. Since the diffused p- and n- regions are very thin, practically all carriers photo-generated in the device are collected quickly. The quantum-efficiency is further enhanced through the use of an antireflection coating on the front surface and a reflective coating on the back. For a typical device 0.7 mm thick with a bias of 200V, a quantum-efficiency greater than 0.85 (electrons/ incident photon), a capacitance of 15 pf per cm2of sensitive-area, and a response-time of less than 30 nanoseconds have been measured. For a device 0.25 mm thick, a quantum-efficiency of 0.50, a capacitance of 45 pf/cm2, and a response-time less than 5 nanoseconds have been achieved. Multi-element devices with sensitive areas up to 6 cm2have been fabricated. Typical multi-element devices have less than 1% optical cross-talk, separation between adjacent elements of less than 0.005\" impedance between adjacent elements of greater than 108ohms, and variation of quantum-efficiency of less than a few percent (depending on the size of the test light-spot). These devices have been subjected to environmental tests without deterioration. Other properties of these devices, including variation of dark-current and quantum-efficiency with temperature, will be discussed."
"There are many applications in which one wishes to scan a document photometrically in order to translate its reflection or transmission characteristics into an eleetrieal signal for computer-processing. This can be done in several different ways; the extremes are spot-illumination and field-illumination. In addition, the optical/electrical scanning techniques one can employ range from a totally mechanical scan to an electron-beam scan. This paper is concerned with an illuminated field scanned by a detector tube -- specifically, with the evaluation of several tubes."
"A new germanium photodiode having an extremely uniform quantum-efficiency from the visible to 1.65 microns has been developed. The device consists of a lithium-drifted junction in which the light enters in a direction parallel to the junction, thereby allowing absorption-path lengths of several centimeters, if desired, with essentially zero dead-layer. Sensitive areas up to about 10 mm in one dimension and several centimeters in the other dimension are possible. Typical characteristics for a device 2 cm long and having a sensitive area 5 mm × 5 mm are: diode capacitance: 3pF; charge-collection time: 75% of charge collected in 25 ns at 500 volts. Predicted NEP: less than 10-14watts/cycle1/2at 1.65 µm and 77°K for frequencies up to 100 KHz, less than 0.5 × 10-12watts/cycle1/2at 1.65 µm and 195°K for frequencies up to 5 MHz. At low frequencies, the detectivity can be background-limited by 300°K blackbody radiation. The device must be used and stored at reduced temperatures. A convenient cryostat, capable of maintaining the device at or near 77°K for 150 hr without refilling, is described."
"The application of doped FeSi2for thermoelectric generation was first discussed by R. M. Ware and D. J. McNeill. We have extended thier investigations by studying the influence of sample preparation and doping more closely. By a systematic variation of the parameters for powder metallurgic preparation and by application of hydro-static pressure these properties could be improved considerably. They were in no way inferior to those found for samples prepared by normal freezing methods. Further, the influence of various dopants on the thermo-electric properties was determined. It was found that Al, Ga, Mn and Cr act as acceptors and P, Co and Ni as donors. For these dopants we have measured the temperature dependence of Seebeck coefficient, electrical conductivity and Hall coefficient in detail. The most important result is the strong increse of the thermoelectric figure of merit with temperature for n-FeSi2to 10-3grad-1at 1000°K. This behaviour can be explained by the assumption that the electrical conduction is caused by small polarons, as discussed by U. Birkholz and J. Schelm. On the other hand, for p-FeSi2, only a weak temperature dependence was observed, as expected for conduction according to a band model. Maximum figure of merit values were obtained with Al or Cr for p-type and Co for n-type material. Thermocouples made of these materials can operate up to 1000°K. For example, with a hot junction temperature of 1000°K and a cold junction temperature of 400°K and using cube shaped legs (0.6 cm) a power output of about 0.7 W was obtained."
"A comprehensive evaluation of performance and life characteristics of the SNAP 19 generator was accomplished. Eight bench-test generators were used in the study. All of the units, contained lead-telluride thermoelectric couples. Three types of thermoelectric couples were used. Six of the generators were of reference couple desiga; one unit was of an advanced couple configuration; one unit used a different \"P\" leg material formulation. Thermoelectric element, couple, and module manufacturing processes were subjected to production type quality assurance."
"The primary object of the work was to demonstrate the feasibility of fabrication of TPV cells of several square cm of area on germanium web, which can be grown at 1-cm widths in lengths of several meters. Such cells were successfully made, but have not as yet attained the performance afforded by other cells of conventiorLal manufacture. The first efforts concerned alloyed-junction cells. Small area diodes were made in this way, but difficulties with non-uniformity of alloy wetting over large areas prevented the fabrication of acceptable large-area devices. Attention was therefore given to diffused junctions, and an open-tube gallium diffusion process was developed by which large-area diodes could readily be made. These were used as front-junction cells with vacuum-deposited titanium-silver contacts. The largest device evaluated was 0.8 cm × 9.5 cm."
"This work is concerned with the problem of spectral matching between heat source radiation characteristics and spectral response characteristics of the germanium photovoltaic cell. The objective is to find selective radiating materials with high spectral emissivity in a narrow wavelength band centered about the region of maximum response of the Ge-cell and low emissivity elsewhere."
"R&D effort in TPV-Energy Conversion, which just has passed the 5-year milestone, was concentrated on the two major components, the photovoltaic, p-n junction conversion device, and the radiation heat source. Three types of germanium photovoltaic cells were under intense study and their performance characteristics are analyzed and results presented. The performance characteristics of a high radiation intensity Si-photovoltaic cell was also analyzed, using a SiC and various types of rare earth oxide radiators. Results are compared with the germanium cell performance and conclusions are drawn for future promising effort. Radiation heat source development is now channeled into studies on highly efficient, spectrally selective radiators of the rare earth oxide type. Initial results of these studies have recently become available and indicate a possible breakthrough in the effort to increase the spectral efficiency of the TPV-system. Test results on a small (100 Watt) model TPV-Generator are presented to demonstrate state of the art hardware development. Future effort will emphasize the optimization of the rare earth emitter materials and the appropriate matching with the photovoltaic cell characteristics. (No major system hardware development is contemplated for the next three years.)"
"The object of the work described in this paper was to obtain the LSA mode of oscillation and to study its physical mechanism. Gunn diodes have been operated in waveguide circuits at frequencies from 3 to 30 times their transit time frequency, the longest devices giving pulsed output powers as high as 750 watts at 2 GHz and 300 watts at 3 GHz with conversion efficiencies of 5 and 2 1/2%, respectively. As the output power, impedance (frequency), product of these samples is considerably in excess of the values normally obtained for transit time oscillators, it was initially assumed that the LSA mode was operating. However, dh'ect observation of the diode RF current indicates that the major component of current, though higher than the transit time frequency, is in fact at a subharmonic of the output frequency. The high frequency current builds up relatively slowly during the pulse and its final amplitude is much smaller than that of the subharmonic component. Thus although this mode of operation is potentially useful it is not the pure LSA mode. The significance of these results is discussed with particular reference to the findings of other workers in this field."
"In order to realize practical GaAs bulk effect functional devices, it is necessary as a first step to demonstrate actually the capability of CW Gunn oscillation in planar-type diodes. This paper describes the results of CW oscillations obtained in GaAs planar-type bulk diodes. The n-type layer grown by vapor process on a Cr-doped semi-insulating substrate has 0.4-2 × 1015cm-3carriers and is 10-35µ thick. Effective electrode spacing ranges 50-200µ. The most important things in obtaining reliable CW oscillations are the quality and geometry of the electrode-contacts as well as GaAs crystals of sufficient homogeneity. CW oscillations with satisfactory reliability have been obtained by adopting \"I\" and \"T\" shaped geometry for the n-type layer. The low-field resistance of the device is of the order of about 1kΩ. Fundamental oscillation frequencies of 0.5-3 GHz have been observed. The device construction and fabrication techniques as well as microwave oscillation characteristics such as output power, efficiency, etc., will be presented in detail."
"The series operation of Gunn diodes with above critical noL products has been considered to be impractical. It was found that one of the diodes in the series connected chain tends to capture most of the bias voltage leaving the rest of the diodes with sub-threshold bias. The diode which captures the voltage, being over biased, generates noise instead of coherent oscillations. The sub-threshold biasod diodes act as resistive loads."
"Experimental observation of the hybrid mode of oscillation in oversized samples of bulk and epitaxial GaAs is discussed. This mode of operation is a hybrid of Gunn domain and LSA modes, and is achieved by allowing dipoles to partially form in the sample while operating at appropriate ratios of electron concentration to operating frequency (n/f) so that several such partially-formed dipoles exist simultaneously within the sample. The increase in the power × (frequency)2× impedance product in the hybrid mode over that of the ordinary domain mode appears to be significant; also, the stringent starting conditions and severe thermal problems associated with pure LSA operation are not encountered."
"The main objective of the work described here was to characterize the microwave circuit necessary to generate oscillations in the range 26 to 40 GHz from layers of epitaxially grown GaAs. Typically, layer thickness and doping concentrations were 10 µ and 2 × 1015/cm3. The layers used were of two types, n + + - n - n + (vapor regrown sandwich) and n + -n. They have been operated in both CW and pulse conditions with a bias field of 2-3 times the threshold value. Peak pulse power generated has been 450 mW at 28 GHz with an efficiency of 2.6%."
"Exploitation of bulk phenomena permits the realization of complex electronic functions with single bulk structures. In particular, devices with appropriately designed conduction profiles are capable of such operations as binary word generation, pulse width modulation, and DC to frequency conversion. This paper addresses itself to the behavior of high field domains in nonuniformly doped samples of n-type GaAs. A mathematical analysis of stable domain propagation is undertaken for such devices, culminating in a simple graphical technique for predicting their operation in resistive bias networks. The graphical analysis requires only a knowledge of the device doping profile and a family of material characteristics representing the product of donor density and outside electric field as a function of domain excess voltage for doping densities in the range of interest."
"A silicon FET with a maximum frequency of oscillation fmaxof 10 GHz has been realized. Prime factor for the good microwave properties of the device is a newly designed gate which consists of a Schottky contact with a width of only 1 micron. This very small structure is made with the projection masking technology. The Schottky contact consists of evaporated Cr and Ni layers. Source and drain contacts are of the alloyed Au-Sb type. The channel is a thin epitaxial n-layer (d ≈ 0.2µ ρ ≈ 0.1 ohm-cm) on a high-resistive Si substrate."
"The use of metal-nitride-oxide-semiconductor structure as a storage element was reported by Szedon at the 1967 Device Research Conference. When such a structure is used as p-channel enhancement mode device, a positive gate voltage exceeding a certain critical value changes the device into depletion mode. Later when a negative gate voltage of the order of this critical voltage is applied, the device changes back to enhancement mode. This phenomenon has been explained as electron tunneling from the semiconductor through the oxide into the traps in the nitride with a positive gate bias, and from traps into the semiconductor with negative gate bias. This can be used as a nonvolatile memory element."
"Transistors with memory hawe been constructed in the form of MIS field-effect transistors in which the gate insulator consists of a double layer. Closest to the silicon is a silicon dioxide layer, no more than 15Å thick. The importance of this layer will be discussed. It is covered by another layer, which may be silicon nitride, 200-800Å thick. Aluminum oxide and silicon dioxide have also been tried as the second layer. At the interface between these two insulator layers, and at an energy level inside the silicon forbidden band, are traps with a density as high as 2×1014cm-2in the form of disorder states. These traps are donor type and may each give off an electron when the silicon is biased positively for a short time with respect to the insulator, turning the transistor ON. When the polarity is reversed the electrons are recaptured by the traps, neutralizing them and turning the transistor OFF. The charge transport is by tunneling."
"The carrier transport mechanism in the inverted channel of Si-MOS structure is investigated in this study newly utilizing a method of the electron spin resonance absorption and the Hall-effects measurements. The surface conductance of the MOS-FET is well known to be strongly dependent on the substrates and the various conditions of the fabrication processes. So it was suggested that there should exist some relationship between the other process sensitive quantities such as the density of interface states and oxide charges. However, no direct approach to such quantities has been made aiming at the manifestation of the electronic configurations at the interface."
"Summary form only given. Si(311) planes are of characteristic features in surface phenomena, and (311) oriented MOS varactors yield a low density of surface states, Nss, and Si(211) surfaces are likely to expose (111) and (311) planes upon high-orientations on mobility and 1/f noise of p-channel MOSFET, comparing with temperature heating. This paper describes interesting effects of these principal orientations:; (110), (111), and (100). Substrate donor concentrations are 0.5 - 1.2 x 1015 cm-3, gate dielectric is thermally grown, phosphorus-doped Si02, 2300Å thick, and width and length of the channel path are 600 ured (source and drain being connected to the substrate) ranges from 1.5 to and 200 μm, respectively."
"Metal-oxide-silicon field-effect transistors display noise performance up to several hundred MHz which is not satisfactorily explained by the thermal noise of the channel resistance. Measurements show exoess noise with a f-nspectrum which approaches a thermal noise asymptote at about 400 MHz. The noise has been found to be proportional to the drain current and may be represented by an output current generator. However at vhf excess gate noise appears which seems to be caused by the coupling of the gate capacitance to the channel."
"Fuel cells for the first time are becoming sufficiently simple, reliable, and low cost for consideration in a wide variety of practical applications. It takes careful consideration to determine where it is economically feasible to employ fuel cells. Both the initial cost of the fuel cell power source and its use cost in dollars per kilowatt hour must be evaluated. There are many applications where a high price per kilowatt hour is now paid for usable electrical power. For example, the conventional LeClanche cell costs about $30.00 per kilowatt hour in the packages of carbon-zinc cells commonly used to power radios, hand lanterns, and other lightweight portable equipment."
"The transfer and transformation of electric power from one form as it appears at the terminals of generators to other forms as required by specific leads, and the methods that govern the static and dynamic stability of these electric systems as a whole form an engineering discipline described as Electric Power Processing."
"In the past five years, rapid progress has been achieved in thermionic conversion devices. The lifetime of experimental devices has been extended from a few hundred hours to over ten thousand hours. Overall efficiencies of over 14% have been measured on several devices at temperatures consistent with practical heat sources. Reproducibility of devices has been improved greatly as evidenced by the construction and testing of several large batches of similar converters. Hardware devices intended to fit the envelopes and restraints of specific systems have been designed and are now under development. Preliminary results achieved during these developmental efforts are quite promising. Although recent progress has been encouraging, much work remains to make thermionic conversion devices useful as real system components. Converter designs must be matched better to overall power system parameters and heat sources. The reproducibility of converters must be investigated in more detail to determine the present state of the art and to formulate requirements for improved processing techniques. More life-testing under well simulated environments must be done on hardware devices designed to fit system needs. This paper will review the progress achieved in experimental and hardware devices. The problems that were solved in achieving this progress will be discussed. A description will also be presented of the problems remaining to achieve practical thermionic hardware."
"This paper describes the development of a cylindrical thermionic converter which employes three internally connected diodes to produce an output power of over 300 watts at a potential in excess of 1.0 volt. The design, fabrication and testing of the device are described. The method for insulating each diode section using cast aluminum oxide is discussed, including the results of ancillary tests for determining the high temperature voltage hold-off characteristics of the tri-layer. The design and integration of a heat pipe for supplying heat to the emitters is described. The general performance and results of a 3500-hr life test of the complete unit are discussed."
"Contains various advertisements, welcome messages, committee or program information, and other miscellaneous conference information. This may in some cases also include the table of contents, copyright statements, title-page or half title-pages, blank pages, venue maps or other general information relating to the conference that was part of the original conference proceedings."
"Presents the table of contents for the proceedings."
"To flesh out the sketch our industry has limned of itself through the questionnaire into a full and definitive portrait in only ten minutes is beyond my hopes. In this brief review I will, instead, try to cover in significant detail only three of the many possible profiles which can be drawn from this body of information. The questionnaire was addressed \"To All Members of the Quartz Crystal Industry\". A total of 97 copies were mailed of which two were returned as undeliverable. All copies were directed to institutions, not to individuals. Three companies having more than one nearly autonomous operation received an inquiry at each office. A total of 43 replies were returned, 29 of them from manufacturers of crystals. The opportunity was offered for replies to be anonymous and two of the 29 were unsigned. In neither case did the respondent volunteer criticism of the symposium. The first part of this questionnaire was a set of sixteen short answer questions. Its analysis is based upon the responses from the 29 crystal manufacturers."
"Front matter may contain various miscellaneous pages grouped together. This can include the cover art, table of contents, copyright statements, contributor biographies, welcome messages, society-related news or program information, advertisements, and other and miscellaneous information relating to the particular issue as originally published."
"The extensive results of the investigations on the ultimate mechanical output power of magnetostrictive vibrators are summarized. The description is arranged in such a way that the results can be utilized in industrial design procedures in which large amplitude use should be taken into account. The concept of a working ellipse on the stress-strain plane of the material physical state is explained. Through a suitable arrangement for the waveforms of magnetization and magnetostrictive driving force of large amplitudes, the theoretical formulas for the ultimate mechanical output power per unit area of the radiation surface are derived. The formulas are expressed in terms of the basic constants of the acoustic medium and the magnetostrictive material and a dimensionless factor, named form factor, which represents every configuration and physical dimension of the vibrators. Several useful charts of the form factors are provided for numerical design procedures. By using Ball's formula, etc., and the results of Kikuchi et ai., obtained in their studies on magnetic hysteresis loss of magnetostrictive materials, under large mechanical stress, the electroacoustic efficiency for large amplitude use can be estimated theoretically. Some numerical examples are given of the rectangular and ring-type vibrators made of nickel sheets in the cases of biased excitation and nonbiased excitation. Some figures on ultimate output power of a ferrite vibrator are also shown. Although only the case in which vibrators work under the load condition of under-mismatching is described, the theory and provided charts themselves are applicable to any other load conditions."
"Ultrasonic attenuation in crystals is usually analyzed using theories which incorporate phonon relaxation processes. These relaxation processes are also important to the lattice thermal conductivity. However, the relaxation times derived from thermal conductivity measurements are often complicated averages since various processes and various lattice modes are involved. The usefulness of thermal conductivity measurements in determining ultrasonic properties in both the high-temperature (ωt < 1) and low-temperature (ωt > 1) regions will be discussed. Examples will be taken from a variety of materials."
"A new lumped parameter electrical circuit model of a disk-wire mechanical filter is described. The disk resonator model is based on a knowledge of its natural frequencies and its equivalent mass at various points; the coupling-wire model is based on transmission line concepts. In order to maintain a topological correspondence between the mechanical and electrical circuits, the mobility analogy has been used throughout. The new model has provided a means for understanding the effect of coupling-wire orientation on the selectivity of simple disk-wire filters. It is shown that variations in wire position affect the equivalent mass of \"diameter\" modes, causing changes in the finite attenuation poles located near the filter passband. Also discussed are problems associated with using \"disk-pair\" data in the design process. A solution based on an analysis of the improved filter model is discussed."
"Presents a biographical entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
"Northwestern University is announcing the establishment of an inberdisciplinary program in acoustic research and training, to promote and encourage research efforts within the University in both applied and bheoretical acoustics, to provide training opportunities both on the undergraduate and graduate level in various areas of acoustics. The program is organized as an interdisciplinary effort with the participationof faculty members fromth e College of Arts and Sciences, the School of Speech, and the Technological Institute. The Deans of the participating schools and the Director of the Program make up the executive committee which, under the chairmanship of the Dean of Sciences, integrates the program into the overaellf forts of the University. An advisory committee, made up of faculty members, assists the Director in identifying the goals, administrative policies, and professional activities involved."
"This index covers all technical items - papers, correspondence, reviews, etc. - that appeared in this periodical during the year, and items from previous years that were commented upon or corrected in this year. Departments and other items may also be covered if they have been judged to have archival value. The Author Index contains the primary entry for each item, listed under the first author's name. The primary entry includes the coauthors' names, the title of the paper or other item, and its location, specified by the publication abbreviation, year, month, and inclusive pagination. The Subject Index contains entries describing the item under all appropriate subject headings, plus the first author's name, the publication abbreviation, month, and year, and inclusive pages. Note that the item title is found only under he primary entry in the Author Index."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Front matter may contain various miscellaneous pages grouped together. This can include the cover art, table of contents, copyright statements, contributor biographies, welcome messages, society-related news or program information, advertisements, and other and miscellaneous information relating to the particular issue as originally published."
"This paper describes the results of an extensive theoretical study on the elastic contour extensional modes of planarly isotropic, rectangular piezoelectric plates. Results include numerical data on the resonant frequency, displacement pattern, and dynamic capacitance or dynamic coupling coefficient of the first fifty modes as a function of the length-to-width ratio. It is found that the resonances of this type of plate may be divided into four distinct and decoup1ed symmetry families. Calculated values for the resonant frequency vary in accuracy from about 0.2% for the first mode of each family to 1% for the twelfth mode. Dynamic coupling coefficient calculations are accurate to about 10%."
"The storage capacity of a wire delay line can be increased substantially by reshaping the output waveform to reduce the interference between adjacent pulses. Scarrot and Naylor (1956) pointed out that, for a delay line equipped with magnetostrictive transducers, this could be accomplished by using a detection coil with an appropriately chosen winding density function. Such a correction coil is a linear filter whose transfer function is equal to the Fourier transform of the winding density function and is, in fact, the continuous analog of the transversal filter commonly employed to equalize communication channels. Although the design of a correction coil is straightforward in principle, a number of difficulties arise in practice. These include the presence of discontinuities in the winding density function and a tendency for the coil length to be unmanageably large. This paper describes the design techniques that have been developed to overcome these difficulties. An important feature is that they can be easily implemented with a digital computer program which does not require manual intervention. They include the division of the coil into two distinct windings, one with substantial high-frequency content and the other without, in such a way that neither winding has any discontinuities except at its edges; and a procedure for designing a correction coil of a specified length which minimizes the mean-square intersymbol interfence. In addition, experimental results obtained with a typical correction coil are presented."
"Presents a biographical entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
"Contains various contributor biographies, advertisements, indexes, and other miscellaneous issue information. This may in some cases also include society or committee information, blank pages, covers or other general information relating to the particular issue as originally published."
"Front matter may contain various miscellaneous pages grouped together. This can include the cover art, table of contents, copyright statements, contributor biographies, welcome messages, society-related news or program information, advertisements, and other and miscellaneous information relating to the particular issue as originally published."
"The performance characteristics of electronically scanned ultrasonic image-converter systems are discussed in terms of theoretical and technical limitations. The description of the application of holographic imaging techniques is given. The adaptation of the NTSC color display techniques to the problem of ultrasonic imaging is illustrated by practical examples."
"The diffraction of light at 1.15 microns has been observed from transverse magnetoelastic (ME) waves at a frequency of 1.1 GHz in a YIG bar. A shift in the Bragg diffraction angle was observed when the external magnetic field along the bar axis was varied in order to change the elastic and spin wave admixture. The waves were excited by a shear wave transducer, and were on the upper branch of the ME dispersion curves. The largest shift obtained experimentally was -3°, measured from the elastic limit of 9.5°. This required a field change of about 20 Oe. The shift was accompanied by a delay in the diffracted pulse of about 1μs, due to the change in the group velocity. The optical polarization properties indicate that both the elastic and spin wave parts of the ME wave were contributing to the diffraction through the photo-elastic effect and optical Faraday rotation, respectively. The diffracted signal in the magnetically shifted region was transient in nature, and showed strong saturation effects due to saturation of the ME wave."
"Bausch and Lomb T-40 glass is used in ultrasonic delay lines because it combines a low temperature coefficient of delay for shear waves with a low acoustic loss. Although the acoustic loss in the glass is higher than that of vitreous silica, it is low enough to permit the design of lines having sufficient storage capacity to be useful in applications such as storage devices for digital data or delay devices for color television receivers. The low temperature coefficient makes this material attractive for use in locations which may undergo ambient changes of 50 to 60°C. The attenuation coefficient u of the material has been measured in the frequency range of 1.0 to 300 MHz, and when the data are plotted with log α versus logj, a straight line is obtained with a slope equal to 1.30. The attenuation coefficient α is slightly dependent upon temperature, decreasing 0.3% °C with increasing temperature."
"The classical theory of flexural vibrations of a circular plate by Poisson and Kirchhoff is not accurate enough to design thick disks vibrating in axisymmetric or nonaxisymmetric modes, which are often used in a mechanical filter. The present analysis is based on the approximate method previously applied to vibrations of a rectangular plate.Itl The equation governing the relation between wave number and frequency of cylindrical waves in a plate is just the same as dispersion equations for plane waves in a plate. The dispersion equations have an infinite number of imaginary and complex branches as well as the usual real branches. Hence, an infinite number of independent cylindrical waves are obtained which satisfy both the differential equation of motion and the boundary condition on the major surfaces of a disk. A linear combination of such waves is employed to approximate the boundary condition on the lateral surface. Frequency spectra of modes of circumferential order up to three are calculated and compared with those predicted by the classical theory and those experimentally obtained from steel disks. Two kinds of approximations are tried. In the first approximation, the first two branches, real and purely imaginary, of flexural waves are taken into account. Whereas, in the second approximation, the first purely imaginary branch of torsional waves is further taken into account. The agreement between the observed and calculated values was excellent even for a disk with a very small diameter-to-thickness ratio, for which the classical theory predicts too high resonant frequencies. It is also found that significant contributions of torsional waves are seen only at the lowest vibration of the circumferential order of two and three."
"Presents a biographical entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
"Contains various contributor biographies, advertisements, indexes, and other miscellaneous issue information. This may in some cases also include society or committee information, blank pages, covers or other general information relating to the particular issue as originally published."
"Front matter may contain various miscellaneous pages grouped together. This can include the cover art, table of contents, copyright statements, contributor biographies, welcome messages, society-related news or program information, advertisements, and other and miscellaneous information relating to the particular issue as originally published."
"A plane uniform electromagnetic wave traveling in a vacuum region and obliquely impinging on a piezoelectric slab bounded on the opposite side by an infinite isotropic elastic medium has been considered. The power carried by the elastic wave transmitted in this latter elastic medium has been compuftoerd various values of the geometrical parameters and the maxima determined."
"An array with both linear and nonlinear signal processing modes is described. Theoretical and experimental results obtained with operation in each mode are contrasted. It is found that there is little difference in the 3-dB beamwidth but that the 10-dB and 20-dB beamwidths are improved by the nonlinear processing to an appreciable degree. The nonlinear processing results in a scanning beam, which is essentially collimated from ranges of 6 to 16 inches with a 20-dB beamwidth of 0.06 inch using a nominal frequency of 2.5 MHz. Since most medical scanning systems must use a wide dynamic range, the improvements of the 10-dB and 20-dB beamwidths represent a significant improvement of the azimuthal resolution capability."
"A criterion for judging the relative effeciency of excitation of piezoelectric surface waves as a function of crystal plate orientation and propagation direction is developed. This criterion is based on a velocity change upon application of a thin conducting sheet to the surface. Plots of surface wave velocity for various orientations of the crystal surface are presented as a function of propagation direction for the conducting sheet in contact with and infinitely far removed from the crystal surface. A plot of a typical velocity variation as a function of height of the conducting sheet is also presented. Evidence in support of the criterion of using velocity changes as an indicator of efficiency is presented in the form of mechanical displacement and electric potential plots for several orientations and propagation directions. All velocity displacements and potential calculations were carried out under the assumption that the crystal medium was lithium niobate."
"The interaction of spin wave and acoustic wave in a ferromagnetic crystal is described. It is shown that the left-sense polarized wave propagates with less attenuation than the right-sense polarized wave. Hence, left-sense interaction is preferable to rightsense for conversion of spin wave into acoustic wave."
"Presents a biographical entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
"This index covers all technical items - papers, correspondence, reviews, etc. - that appeared in this periodical during the year, and items from previous years that were commented upon or corrected in this year. Departments and other items may also be covered if they have been judged to have archival value. The Author Index contains the primary entry for each item, listed under the first author's name. The primary entry includes the coauthors' names, the title of the paper or other item, and its location, specified by the publication abbreviation, year, month, and inclusive pagination. The Subject Index contains entries describing the item under all appropriate subject headings, plus the first author's name, the publication abbreviation, month, and year, and inclusive pages. Note that the item title is found only under he primary entry in the Author Index."
"Contains various contributor biographies, advertisements, indexes, and other miscellaneous issue information. This may in some cases also include society or committee information, blank pages, covers or other general information relating to the particular issue as originally published."
"Provides a schedule of conference events and a listing of which papers were presented in each session."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"Three experimental 150 MHz transmitters, located about Albany, New York, have been slaved to a common synchronizing signal by means of phase-lock techniques and wire lines. By achieving excellent, long term relative stability, routine frequency adjustments and annoying beat frequencies are eliminated. Details and performance of a modular system, which makes available any number up to 11 assigned channels, are discussed."
"The technique of impedance loading to the antenna element has been applied to an antenna system for portable VHF communication equipment and its practical usefulness has been shown with a brief theoretical analysis and some experimental results. By means of impedance loading to the antenna element, the driving point impedance may be varied so as to make matching feasible, even though the element length is very short, and the effective length may be increased, so that the gain of the loaded antenna system relative to a non-loaded antenna system may be increased. As a practical example, an inductance loaded antenna system has been applied to a 34-54 MHz range portable communication equipment and about 5 dB relative gain increase has been observed."
"A reflex klystron oscillator is used as the microwave transmitter and superregenerative receiver in a Doppler radar designed to measure the relative speed of a moving target at distances of up to three hundred feet. It is shown that the klystron oscillation frequency must be kept within close limits, and the rate of oscillation decay must be suitably controlled, in order that the receiver sensitivity may be kept high. Experiments are described which further relate the sensitivity of the system to the change in oscillation frequency occurring during the quench cycle; in particular, by using a resonator quench, the effective power of the receiver is increased by over 50 dB above that obtained with a repeller quench. Road tests of the receiver have shown it to be of value as part of a collision-warning device for road vehicles."
"Transmission on mobile radio circuits is often affected by standlng-wave breakup\" resulting from spatial variations in rf signal amplitude, which to the moving mobile unit appear as rapid fades. Measurements made in the 150 mHz band confirm previous reports that within any small area such signal variations tend to follow the Rayleigh distribution. Statistical distributions have also been determined for the depths and widths of fades, in several different environments where fading was severe; rural, suburban and urban situations were found to produce rather similar results in-these respects. Some information is also given on the relation between median signal and circuit quality for speech, under fading conditions."
"Presents the cover/table of contents for the proceedings."
"Presents the back cover of this proceedings volume."
"The Southern California Rapid Transit District (SCRTD) two-way radio system now in service provides voice communication and a silent alarm feature for safety purposes. The same equipment also provides automatic transmitter identification. These features have been accomplished using an added logic assembly installed in the driver's area of the bus not far from the handset hanger. The equipment sends four digits of vehicle identification, six digits of assignment information, and one digit of message type marking, generated with integrated circuit logic and transmitted with keyed audio tone. The assignment information is determined by a code card plugged in by the driver at the start of an assignment. At the base station, the information transmitted from each bus is first presented on a visual display in front of the dispatcher, recorded on a digital printer with a time code, and then analyzed for alarm and acknowledgment significance. In the event of an alarm, the location of the bus is known from the complete identification of route and run number. This information is used by dispatchers to provide rapid police assistance in emergencies."
"A method of vehicle location is discussed in which the attenuation of the signal from a mobile transmitter is measured. A test system and procedure for obtaining data is described. A series of curves are developed which specify the anticipated error for a four-station grid. The signal strength measurements could be very tedious and time consuming, but a system was devised that makes it possible to automate the procedure. This system, called the signal amplitude sampler and totalization unit (SASTU), is fully described."
"In a small-cell mobile telephone system, each channel may be used simultaneously in cells spaced sufficiently apart to limit cochannel interference. The extent of the interference depends upon the distance between cochannel cells, the number of land stations per cell, and the receiver capture ratio. The quantitative relationships among these parameters are derived for various cell configurations."
"A new maritime mobile radio telephone system adopted by Nippon Telegraph and Telephone Public Corporation (NTT), is described. An outline of the technical features of the entire system and the satellite repeater arrangement, adopted to reduce service-dead areas, is given."
"Forward error-correction equipment based on cyclic coding, which is applicable for selective calling and direct-printing systems in the maritime mobile service, is described. Some field test results are presented."
"A requirement for multiple frequency reception is placed on many mobile radio systems. The disadvantages of the present multiple frequency monitoring methods are reviewed and the design considerations of a new unique technique which overcomes these limitations are presented. Basically, this method utilizes sampling or time-sharing to always assure reception of the system's primary channel."
"Virtually all proposed vehicle control systems for highway automation must include a steady-state car-following mode. This mode was intensively investigated for various situations where headway and relative velocity inputs were used. In addition, a fundamental relationship between the flow capacity of an automated highway and the small-signal longitudinal response of a vehicle was investigated. The predictions obtained from mathematical models of various car-following modes were compared to those from full-scale tests. It was concluded that a linear mathematical representation of the longitudinal dynamics was valid, and thus it could be used for predictive purposes. Furthermore, it was verified that flow capacity on an automated highway is sharply limited by certain vehicle characteristics if headway feedback is used for vehicle control."
"The mathematics of intermodulation (IM) generation are surveyed, and it is shown that for land mobile receivers, worst case IM is a third-order effect occurring in the first mixer. The importance of relating the IM specification to the receiver sensitivity is pointed out. RF gain reduction or elimination, selectivity at both RF and IF, and the new square law mixing devices are all mentioned as techniques used for receiver IM reduction. The new diodes and field effect transistors are examined in greater detail. Their advantages of low noise and high burnout resistance are contrasted with the problems of conversion gain and high required local oscillator power levels."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"Abstract—The nature of a class of division techniques which permit the selection of quotient digits in digital division by the inspection of truncated versions of the divisor and partial remainder is reviewed in detail. Two types of mechanisms, or so-called model divisions, for the selection of quotient digits are introduced. For both types of techniques, analytic tools are suggested for determining the number of bits which must be inspected as a function of the radix and form of representation of quotient digits. The analysis accounts for the representation of the partial remainder in a redundant form such as the one produced by an adder-subtractor which eliminates carry-borrow propagation."
"Abstract—This paper discusses a method of correcting almost unlimited errors1in a single channnel of an f-channel system. The method uses a two-dimensional variable-length code (2-DVL). The encoding and decoding systems are implemented by a parallel linear-feedback shift register (LFSR)."
"Abstract—Three prime tools of time series processing are convolution, recursive filtering, and the Cooley-Tukey spectral analysis algorithm. These three algorithms can be performed in a single special-purpose device. This device can be a high-speed digital convolver with some additional features which allow it to perform recursive filtering and the Cooley-Tukey algorithm. Recursive filtering requires that the convolver be able to store computed values back into its input. The Cooley-Tukey algorithm can be performed if the convolver has sufficient indexing flexibility. These additional features should not impair significantly the efficiency of the convolver, since its primary function is to calculate dot products, an operation common to all three algorithms."
"Abstract—The problem considered is the mapping of a functional's multidimensional bounded domain onto a bounded interval of the real line. This transformation is to have the property that \"neighboring\" points in the bounded interval are necessarily mapped from \"neighboring\" points in the bounded domain. The multidimensional bounded domain is partitioned into a finite number of elementary regions while the bounded interval is partitioned into the same finite number of elementary intervals. A one-to-one correspondence is defined between the elementary regions and intervals such that neighboring elementary intervals have corresponding multidimensional elementary regions that are neighboring. The degree of neighborliness is controlled by controlling the fineness of partitioning. By suitably defining an equivalent function over the bounded interval, properties of the original functional can be displayed."
"Abstract—An algorithm, which determines whether or not an arbitrary sequential machine can be realized using a set of equal-length shift registers, is developed. When realization is possible, a basis for state assignment is also given."
"Abstract—This paper introduces a method of synthesis of digital systems and develops a theory by which this new concept may be applied to problems of both theoretical and practical significance."
"Abstract—An algorithm for multithreshold threshold element synthesis, generalizing Haring's \"run measure minimization\" algorithm, is presented. The algorithm is based on the possibility of assigning equal weights to variables in a symmetry group of a given Boolean function (for totally or partially symmetric Boolean functions). Thus, although a supplementary operation is required for determining the symmetry group of the Boolean functions, both an important reduction in the number of tests required to minimize the number of thresholds and a more economic solution are assured, when synthesizing totally or partially symmetric Boolean functions."
"Abstract—This note discusses a method for the simulation of initially unrelaxed, linear third-order type-zero and type-one systems having nonzero initial conditions. The simulation is accomplished with one operational amplifier and 2-terminal multipath feedback RC networks using a minimum number of elements in an a priori assumed network configuration."
"Abstract—The continuous output voltage of a radiation sensor is quantized for PCM transmission. A simple technique is presented which enables the computer to continuously detect the presence of a new radiation level by performing data decorrelation, data normalization, and a threshold test. Computer results verify the feasibility of the data processing technique."
"Abstract—A procedure for incorporating the deleterious effect of solder connections into reliability calculations for integrated circuits is presented. This is incorporated into a study concerning the advisability of applying triplicated majority voting to integrated circuits."
"Abstract—This note is concerned with the design and the function of an electronic digital system of simultaneous addition of several binary numbers, using an arithmetic procedure based on mathematical recurrence formulas established by L. Ponticopoulos.1This electronic digital system presents advantages, compared to the known electronic digital arrangements of series and parallel addition. It is much faster as the set of numbers becomes larger. Also, in all cases, the adder presents simplicity of circuits."
"Abstract—A reliability criterion and a technique for improving the reliability of threshold elements which have the \"perfect-zero\" property are suggested. Normally, additional inputs with negative weights are required, but examples are given in which the technique does not require additional circuitry."
"Abstract&#8212;This correspondence discusses the design of counters based on the feedback-shift-register principle, but having input connections which enable the length of the generated sequence to be controlled."
"It would be very simple to yield to the temptation for cheap wit and call this work \"an introduction to an introduction.\" However, it is certainly much more than this, even though it may be advisable for the novice to read it first, before attempting to unravel the intricacies of the author's Introduction to Metamathematics. Rather, it represents an honest effort to present parts of the former work to a more general audience, and in this the author succeeds admirably, producing a very readable and lucid work, in many ways superior to other books written with the same intention.1"
"This paper describes an all-parallel DDA with electronic patchboard, high iteration rate (one million complete computation cycles per second), and reasonable word length (20 bits), built by Teledyne. It further describes the hybrid LSI packaging used (MEMA hybrid multichip flatpack), computer-aided methods of programming, and automatic methods of documenting the resultant coding."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"This page or pages intentionally left blank."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"Abstract—Adaptive control of complex manufacturing processes can provide significant improvements in production rate and product quality. To maximize these advantages, the adaptive control system must be capable of making accurate measurement of process per- formance. This paper describes the implementation of a general- purpose performance computer which makes use of a combination of two techniques: trainable pattern recognition and linear regression. The description covers the system concept, the training procedures or algorithms, and the detailed design."
"Abstract—The charge-storage subharmonic parametric oscillator may be switched from one state to the other within one cycle of pump voltage. This property is used in the design and construction of a 6-element delay line. This delay line is shown to perform predictably when the elements are connected in a loop to give a self- switching arrangement."
"Abstract—This paper deals with computer-aided design of digital systems and presents a formal method for designing a digital system via state tables. The steps of the design method can be summarized as follows: a) a system is described by a set of microprograms written in a \"transfer language,\" b) the set of microprograms is translated into a set of flow tables by an algorithm, and c) the flow tables are converted into logical diagrams by synthesis procedures. The purpose of step a) is to aid the designer in describing the system; the result of step b) makes it possible to reduce the logical complexity of the system by using systematic techniques of the sequential network theory; and the result of step c) is a system of interconnected sequential networks, operating simultaneously which may include iterative asynchronous networks."
"Abstract—A 1024-word by 80-digit exploratory plated-wire store using diode-matrix word selection has a cycle time of 100 ns or less for READ and 140 ns for WRITE, while the destructive READWRITE asts 150 to 200 ns. To match the fluctuation in the type of request encountered, typically 80 percent READ, and thus maximize the throughput, it is advantageous to switch memory mode in an interlaced manner at logic speed. This is done by exploiting the plated-wire properties of NDRO and fast WRITE. A charge storage diode is used for memory protection and common word current control; READ 400 mA, WRITE 900 mA."
"Abstract—A new residue number system algebra has been previously proposed by the author. The algebra has solved an essential theoretical barrier in the residue number system and has enabled one to pursue additive operations in the residue number system to their full extent, overcoming such difficulties as restrictions on the sign or magnitude of numbers in the system. In this paper, basic theorems in the algebra are introduced first, and then, based on the theorems, table look-up oriented solutions for hardware overflow checking, sign detection, and floating-point additive operations are given. The theorems expound the behavior of a quantity treated as a veiled mysterious function in the literature. To the best knowledge of the author, hardware overflow-checking schemes and floatingpoint additive operations in the residue number system have never been reported elsewhere. So far, the upper limit of the magnitude of numbers in the system ever discussed has been the one that is theory-limited, and floating-point operations in the residue number system have never been discussed."
"Abstract—Maitra cascades are introduced here using two-input NAND and/or NOR. Tests for function synthesis by these kinds of cascades are introduced. The same methods can be used to design a cascade to realize a given function, when it exists. Finally, some procedutes are given for making such a cascade as short as possible."
"Abstract—In recent years, considerable attention has been focused on the problem of improving the logic implementation capability of logic elements in digital computer circuits. This paper investigates the theoretical properties of a logic element called the multithreshold threshold element. The concept of this logic element is a generalization of the concept of the single-threshold threshold element."
"Abstract—This note describes an edge-weighted pair-graph method for easily calculating the glb and lub of any two partitions on a finite set. The criterion for two partitions to be complements of one another is also easily described by use of an edge-weighted pair-graph."
"Abstract—A speeded-up multiplication technique is considered wherein the two numbers to be multiplied are first examined and the one with the fewer 1's is selected as the multiplier. It is found that the speeding-up diminishes towards 0 as the word length increases."
"Abstract—The principal synthesis example of Schneider and Dietmeyer's paper [1] is examined by applying a new synthesis algorithm. The minimum NOR gate realization thus obtained is used to illustrate the nonoptimality of their approach and to question their definition of delay. Arguments are advanced for synthesis with simple modules."
"Abstract—A probability model of queue storage allocation problems is devised and an analysis is provided based on the theory of random walks. Two types of queue storage allocation are discussed and analyzed, after which examples are given to illustrate their relative advantages and disadvantages."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Since BNF (context-free) grammars have been found so useful in describing the syntax of programming languages, a large number of parsing algorithms for context-free grammars have been developed for use in compilers and compiler-writing systems. A significant class of these algorithms have the following properties."
"This narrative comprises a rather subjective and limited summary of queuing analyses that are applicable to the design of computer scheduling algorithms. The queuing disciplines are all treated as priority disciplines, and are categorized according to priority dependence on running time, system state, external factors, or waiting time. A single-server system is assumed for most of the discussion, but a section on multiple-server systems is included at the end of the paper."
"This paper describes a monitor system for a small display computer, attached as a satellite to the Berkeley SDS-940 time-sharing system. It describes some modifications made to the interrupthandling hardware of the small machine, a DEC PDP-8. It also gives details of a set of calls to the monitor, which allow multiprogramming of tasks in the satellite."
"This paper gives a description of the \"virtual machine\" of MULTICS, the multiple-user computer system conceived at M.I.T. and implementedfdhuf on the General Electric Model 645 time-sharing computer. The virtual machine is the machine which is seen by the system \"user,\" i.e., the application programmer working at the assembly language level. The MULTICS virtual machine has a number of salient features which distinguish it from conventional machines."
"This paper should cheer both system programmers and application programmers. The authors describe the methods used to measure the performance of both the GE-625/ 635 GECOS II operating system nd the user programs running under the operating system. Anyone who works on computer operating systems or who is involved in computer system measurement and improvement would probably find this paper interesting."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"Abstract—Block-oriented simulation languages are a powerful tool for solving simulation problems. A problem of major importance in simulation, however, is the choice of the integration formula to be employed in the integration block. Users of early simulation languages had no difficulty selecting a formula since these languages provided only a single formula. Advanced languages have a number of formulas available, but leave the choice to the user who does not have much to go by except the good names of the formulas. Difficulties which were encountered in the use of multistep formulas made formulas of the Runge-Kutta type more popular. Experience has shown that they are less critical with respect to stability. However, the computing time for a Runge-Kutta formula is considerably larger and for this reason multistep formulas, which include the predictor- corrector scheme, are still appealing."
"Abstract—Asynchronous circuits are analyzed from the stand- point of different constraints which may apply to the stray delays (zero-line delays, bounded delays, and the use of delay elements). The relationship between \"hazard-free\" sequential networks and \"speed independent\" circuits is illuminated. Speed independence is defined relative to a fundamental mode circuit (which in turn may be described by a flow table); the analysis is carried out from this stand- point. The allowed sequence graph may be used to detect critical races. A circuit is seen to be speed independent if and only if its circuit-derived excitation matrix has no 1-input change critical races. The generalization of the essential hazard has been studied in detail and is shown to be an obstacle to hazard-free realizations when line delays can be arbitrarily large."
"Abstract—The Cambridge System, comprising a standard IBM System/360 Model 40 and an associative memory, is described from the viewpoint of its implementation using the READ-only control storage of the Model 40. In particular, we discuss the use of the ROS in 1) controlling the flow of data between the CPU and the associative memory registers, and 2) handling translation control, absent page indications, and variable field operand pretesting, when the associative memory is used for page translation in a time-sharing mode of operation. Although the main use of the system is as a computer facility that may be shared simultaneously by up to fifteen users, it may also be used as an ordinary batch processor having a small experimental associative memory among its facilities. The magnitude of the ROS additions and modifications, in terms of numbers of microinstructions, is given."
"Abstract—This paper describes the concept of a hardware sequential decision-making device consisting principally of an array or network of nodes which can support a plurality of connections among the nodes on a simultaneous basis. The connection \"chains\" the nodes together. The application of the device to a dynamic computer memory allocation system is described in the paper. In this use, each \"node\" would correspond to a word or a group of words in a storage device, the access to which is controlled by a control unit employing the node network. Thus, only one node needs to be selected to either load a record into the controlled memory unit, or to read the record from it."
"Abstract—In this paper a least-square approach to multiclass pattern classification is undertaken. The generalized inverse computation is used to furnish a quick solution to the problem of fixed training samples. The use of recursive on-line computation is also recommended. Experimental results are presented to illustrate the approach. Both deterministic and statistical interpretations have been given to the approach. The pattern classifier proposed by Chaplin and Levadi [1] and the adaptive pattern classifier proposed by Patterson and Womack [2] are special cases of this approach."
"Abstract—This paper presents a technique for generating a nonlinear decision surface that separates two finite classes of elements in n-dimensional real space. It incorporates the principle of cascaded threshold gates in evolving the required separation surface. At each stage of the design, an additional cascaded gate is added which will separate at least one new element. Necessary and sufficient conditions are developed whereby one may readily determine if two new elements may be properly separated by the addition of one cascaded threshold gate. The results are illustrated by means of numerical examples."
"Abstract—An implementation of an algorithm for near-optimal ordering of sparse network equations is described. Such ordering can result in considerable savings in computer time and may be applied to various types of analysis programs. A sample problem demonstrates a saving in computer time in excess of 50 percent."
"Abstract—This note discusses a particular kind of ternary functional decomposition based on a ternary function ↑ to be performed on the set of composite functions. Such function is closely related to the cycling concept of Postian algebras. A systematic method is given to determine the set of all decompositions of that kind admitted by the function. Such set is called the cyclo-set and it is proved that it is a filter in the partitions lattice. Since any partition of the lattice can be expressed as an intersection of cardinality-2 partitions, it follows that the method consists merely in finding the infimum of the cardinality-2 partitions belonging to the cyclo-set and then determining the filter having this infimum as vertex. The existence of proper subsets of the cardinality-2 partitions set leading to the determination of the ifiter-vertex is discussed, and results obtained for functions of domain-order up to seven are stated. Finally, the total number of cyclo-decompositions for a given partitional structure is calculated."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"\"Getting rid of the patchpanel\" has long been the dream of analog computer users (and designers). Besides the aesthetic value of eliminating \"all those messy wires,\" there are the more substantial advantages of shortened turnaround time, long-term low-cost problem storage and greatly simplified programming."
"This paper is worthy of attention. Written with the facility one has grown to expect from Prof. Dijkstra, this is an announcement of a new operating system designed and constructed at the Technologi-cal University at Eindhoven for the EL X8."
"This paper describes a scheme for organizing and creating the control portions of an interactive graphical program. Since the response of such a program to some console input may depend on the history of previous inputs, the author structures his control programs as finite-state automatons. Thus state diagrams are used as the notation for defining the behavior of an interactive graphical program. Such notation does indeed add clarity and order to the description of this information."
"This page or pages intentionally left blank."
"This page or pages intentionally left blank."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"Abstract—A new technique that uses the transistor itself as a computing element has been developed for simulating transistors on the analog computer. The method is called the separation technique since it separates the high-and low-frequency behavior of the simulated transistor. The high-frequency behavior of the transistor is time scaled by a factor (typically one million) suitable for computer simulation."
"Abstract—A computer-oriented algorithm for synthesizing combinational logic circuits from a collection of functionally packaged circuits is developed. The algorithm uses a hierarchy of \"goals\" in an iterative decision process in a manner similar to that employed by theorem proving and gamne playing programs. With each iteration a set of \"tasks\" finds the circuit package which satisfies the highest level goal while meeting circuit constraints."
"Abstract—In an earlier paper, Unger showed that any normal mode flow table can be realized by an asynchronous sequential circuit without inserted delays in the feedback paths if and only if the flow table contains no essential hazards. No restrictions were placed on the relative magnitudes of line and gate delays. In this paper, we show that if the line delays are less than the minimum gate delay in the circuit, any normal mode sequential function can be realized without inserted delays. It is also shown that a weaker line delay assumption is sufficient. Two procedures for realizing asynchronous sequential circuits without inserted delays are presented."
"Abstract—Given a set of n input variables, let D(n) denote the smallest integer y such that n2y. It is shown that the complete set of input variables may be inverted using just D(n) inverters and n+D(n) positive-weight threshold gates."
"Abstract—The operation speed of a one-dimensional, unilateral, iterative switching network with strictly combinational cells is often drastically limited by the propagation delays of carry variables. In this paper an attempt is made to extend to other iterative networks the scheme of a fast carry-propagation circuit proposed by several authors for parallel adder. The class of the networks which are realizable according to this scheme is small but contains many networks of practical interest."
"Abstract—A method is presented for realizing any flow table that does not contain essential hazards with a circuit requiring no delay elements for proper operation. The procedure generally requires considerably fewer state variables than did an earlier technique for achieving the same result. It is based on a modification of a method by Tracey for constructing single-transition-time row assignments."
"Abstract—This paper investigates various aspects of functional and structural complexity in Boolean polyfunctional nets. These are nets each of whose constituent elements are capable of performing any single function from a prescribed set of functions assigned to the element. Such nets are characterized in the paper as functionally redundant, universal, ultrastable, perfect, imperfect, etc. These descriptors are measures of net function complexity and describe, in general, the range over which net function varies as the function of each element varies over its assigned set of functions. For example, in a net which is functionally ultrastable, any allowable variation in element function produces no variation in net function. In a net which is functionally perfect, every variation in element function produces a corresponding variation in net function; furthermore, every possible net function is obtained. All nets which are not perfect are called imperfect."
"Abstract—A new group of dead-time approximations for use in analog simulations is presented. These approximations were synthesized in the time domain using a least-square norm and a gradient search technique. The combined frequency and transient response of the new approximations is better than that of previously reported approximations."
"Abstract—A more general adaptive procedure for determining linear or piecewise linear discriminant functions for multiclass pattern classification is proposed. The adaptive procedure is a many-pattern or group-pattern adaptation. The training sequence consists of groups of vectors in matrix form instead of single vectors. The convergence proof shows that this procedure terminates in a finite number of adaptions if the solution exists. A necessary and suffcient condition is developed for testing the linear separability of each subset of (d + 1) samples. Furthermore, the proposed procedure can be implemented with the addition of only a little complexity to existing systems. Computer simulations indecate satisfactory results."
"Abstract—An algebra for switching circuits that may have multiple values is introduced. A minimization technique suitable for computer implementation is then presented."
"Two errors have been found in the classical theory of two-level minimization of multiple-output switching networks. First, the prime implicant theorem must be modified to cover certain degenerate cases, and second, the widely accepted notion that there can always be found a miinimal network corresponding to a set of equations that are entirely sum-of-products or entirely product-of-sums is incorrect in a less trivial way, viz., sometimes the minimal network corresponds to a mixed representation (a set of equations some of which are products-of-sums and the remainder of which are sums-of-products). Counter examples are displayed to support these claims. Networks are exhibited in which AND gates feed AND gates."
"As a prime example of the difficulty of technical communications in this day, I cite the case of the Review R67-41, on page 380 of the June, 1967, issue of this TRANSACTIONS. This review, by E. Massell of an article entitled \"An Analog Photoresistive Multiplier,\"1has belatedly come to my attention. In it the reviewer states, quite correctly, that this article \"is a very complete description of a design effort-so complete that it should avoid the necessity of anyone repeating the same work.\""
"I greatly appreciate V. Azgapetian's bringing to my attention the work that he has done in applying photoresistive elements to analog computation. Unfortunately, his letter does not contain sufficient technical information to permit me to evaluate the situation. My patent attorney will obtain copies of the patents which he cites and we will review them in detail."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"These three papers, based upon the first author's Ph. D. dissertation, are concerned with the problem of assignment and sequencing of computations on multiprocessor or parallel computer systems. Although individually the papers suffer from the usual abstracting difficulties, the results are significant and warrant serious study by readers interested in computer system modeling and analysis."
"This paper was written in reaction to a body of literature on continious parameter tracking that has by and large ignored the use of continuous regression techniques introduced by A. I. Rubin in an earlier paper.1The case for the use of continuous regression in the parameter tracking problem is presented in a concise and professional manner. A distinction is made between t, the \"real world time\" employed in the formulation of the model, and in the development of the regression performance measure, and τ, the \"data processing time\" employed in the steepest descent circuits that are performing the minimization of the performance measure with respect to the parameters. This distinction is an important contribution, both analytically and conceptually, to the parameter identification literature; the authors' belief that other workers in the field might profit from this distinction is well founded."
"The authors are to be congratulated on their perseverance in coming up with an analog circuit which permits simulation of some of the effects that are observed in a ferroresonant device."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"Abstract—Two practical methods for obtaining a pure transport time delay are described which are well suited for analog computer applications. Examples of transmission line simulations are given where traveling wave phenomena are of interest. An alternate approximare method of transmission line representation is derived utilizing the natural frequencies of the primitive line and requiring only standard computer components."
"Abstract—As an approach to clarifying the basic properties of threshold logic, the completely monotonic function is investigated. Its testing procedure, functional form, etc., are discussed by using a new concept, mutual monotonicity."
"Abstract—Finding simple or \"canonical representations\" for regular events is one of the important problems concerning finite automata. The present paper is an attempt to find concatenative canonical decompositions for regular events. Five different decomposition types of regular events are defined, imustrated by examples, and their properties investigated. The main tool in our investigations is the notion of a decomposition set; it is a generalization of the notion of a decomposition state, introduced by the authors in a previous paper.[7]Let A =(S, M, s0, F) be a finite automaton; a subset S̄⊂S is a decomposition set if A goes through a state of S̄ whenever it accepts a tape. In order to determine whether a given subset S̄⊂S is a decomposition set one has to check only tapes whose length is not greater than |S|-|S̄|-1, where |S| and |S̄| are the number of states in S and S̄, respectively. Thus, one can deternine all decomposition sets of A. The knowledge of the decomposition sets of A enables one to determine whether and in what form T(A), the set of tapes accepted by A, is decomposable."
"Abstract—This paper is concerned with the study of logic hazards in threshold gate networks. Eichelberger has proved that logic hazards are not present in a sum-of-product (product-of-sum) realization which realizes all of the 1(0) prime implicants of the given Boolean function.[2]Logic gates of the AND or NOR (OR or NAND) variety realize single l(0) prime implicants; therefore, a gate is required for each 1(0) prime implicant to be realized, and the problem of eliminating logic hazards is straightforward."
"Abstract—This paper considers the problem of obtaining realizations of synchronous finite automata from their regular expression specifications. A polylinear sequential circuit realization is defined, and it is proven that every synchronous finite automaton has such a realization. A method is developed for the derivation of a polylinear sequential circuit realization of any automaton specified by a regular expression. The method uses a derivative approach and is applied to the reverse of the given regular expression. As a by-product of developing the method, a connection between the state assigmnent problem and regular expressions is established. Another by-product is a simple method for obtaining polylinear sequential circuit realizations of automata specified by flow tables instead of regular expressions."
"Abstract—A high-performance data-acquisition system, now operational, combining analog and digital techniques is described. Up to 48 channels of information can be digitized continuously at rates up to 240K samples per second and then divided into standard contiguous computer records by a tape shuttling method. Various input and output modes permit the tailoring of data gathering and matching of output to a number of subsequent digital processing systems. It may also be used as a \"black box\" analog recorder with a wide choice of bandwidth and channel capacities or as a digital recorder with transfer rates to 5 Mbaud. The uniqueness of the system lies in the use of a 33-track, 1-inch inline recording head which permits densities above 2000 bit/in, multiple A/D converters to economically match tape capacity, and a shuttling operation instead of a buffer to produce gapped output records."
"Abstract—In the solution of a system of equations of the form X=-AX by analog computers, errors will result due to the nonideal characteristics of the integrators and summing amplifiers. In this note a method is given which predistorts the coefficient potentiometers in a manner governed by the models of the active elements which forces the output to be the same as the expected analytical solution. The method does not require the analytical answer to be known before hand."
"Abstract—A system is linear if and only if it is zero-state linear, zero-input linear, and its input-output state equation has the decompostion property. In this note, it is shown that zero-state linearity is sufficient to imply that the set of states accessible from the zero state can be made into a vector space over the output field and the zeroinput response is a homomorphism on this vector space to the output space of the system. An application of the theorem to finite-state systems is given."
"Abstract—A procedure is described, based on a theorem of Post, for determining the nonredundant complete sets of logical functions. Kudielka and Oliva's determination of these functions for two and three variables was verified by means of this procedure in less than a minute of computer time. The procedure requires the computation of irredundant coverings, and novel features of the algorithm which was used to carry out this computation are also described."
"Abstract—This note establishes the fact that an optimal synthesis technique (even for a small number of variables) must abandon the basic assumption of assigning only +1 weights to the primary inputs. Examples are presented where both negative primary weights and/or nonunitary primary weights are required to achieve minimality. A method of network analysis is presented which leads to optimal synthesis in a significant number of new cases. The previously accepted lower bound on the number of devices needed to realize a symmetric function is questioned, and a proof is given to establish its validity. A previously published assertion about a least upper bound on the number of devices is shown to be incorrect."
"Abstract—A switching function which is 2-summable is not linearly separable (a threshold function). A test for 2-summability is given which uses the decimal numbers corresponding to the standard products (minterms) of a function, a slide rule like device, and a preformed chart. The device may be used with functions of up to six variables."
"The numerical integration performed in a digital differential analyzer (DDA) is always associated with a truncation error [1,2]. This correspondence deals with truncation errors generated when the direction of the independent variable (the sign of the △X) is reversed, which will be subsequently referred to as reversibility errors."
"It has been observed, perhaps facetiously, that \"the world's best programmer is also the world's top computer engineer.\" For indeed, when designing computing systems one attempts to provide a mechanism which permits the convenient solution of many disparate problems. The design of such a system will necessarily encompass both programming and engineering considerations."
"This paper is basically concerned with determining readback distortion in magnetic recording. This determination is obtained, not by closed-form analysis, but by simulation of the readback system, consisting of the head and load. The simulation environment allows the author to avoid two limiting assumptions of the past. In this case, he is able to treat a head of finite permeability and a nonzero load. The load considered is a rather standard and adequate parallel RC network. For the finite permeability head, an RL series equivalent circuit is used in which the resistance and inductance are frequency dependent and determined experimentally. The argument is made that the open-circuit readback voltage (zero load) is linear with the input (variation of flux in the storage medium). This fact allows superposition to be applied, and the actual readback voltage computed at the various harmonics of the input. Since R and L vary with frequency, a different equivalent circuit of the head applies for each harmonic. The analysis and superposition of the linear network responses for each network is performed digitally. Finally, some digital filtering is performed in an attempt to offset the effects of distortion, to no avail."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"Abstract—Any narrowband signal can be represented by two low-frequency functions, containing only frequencies lower than the bandwidth, which represent the envelopes of the in-phase (cosine) and quadrature ( sine) components of the carrier frequency. To obtain the transient response of a narrowband system efficiently by computer simulation, the system can be represented by a low-frequency equivalent system, avoiding time-consuming direct simulation of carrier frequencies. This paper presents techniques by which a wide variety of narrowband systems, expressible mathematically as block diagrams, can be converted into block diagrams consisting only of low-frequency functions. The resulting low-frequency equivalent systems can be simulated on either an analog or digital computer by well-known techniques. Although the low-frequency equivalent representation presented here includes an extension of the bandpass low-pass analogy, it is not subject to many of the restrictions normally applied to this analogy. It is not necessary that the modulation be simple AM, that the filtering be symmetrical, or that only the envelope velope of the output be of interest."
"Abstract—It is shown that there exist finite-state universal sequential machines which are also feedback-shift-register realizable. This proves from another point of view the recently proved fact that any arbitrary sequential machine can be realized with two shift registers: one which is not always binary, stores the input, and has no feedback; and the other which is always binary, is driven from the first shift register, and has feedback. In addition, it is proved that the communication between the two shift registers can be reduced to a single binary line."
"Abstract—The problem of determining secondary state assignments for sequential machines such that the binary memory elements are connected in the form of shift registers is studied. An algorithm for finding such state assignments is developed. One or more code words may be assigned to a state of the sequential machine. The only restriction is that the realizations be unitary. A single shift-register realization of a sequential machine is unitary if and only if all the code words assigned to a state have the same first digits. A multiple shift-register realization of a sequential machine is unitary if and only if all the code words assigned to a state have l identical digits, where l is the number of shift registers in the realization. With our technique, the unitary realizations with the minimum number of shift registers can be obtained for any finite, deterministic, synchronous, and reduced (minimal-state) sequential machine, each of whose states has a nonempty predecessor set. The algorithm is suitable for programming on digital computers."
"Abstract—Autonomous sequential networks are represented by transformation graphs, i.e., finite directed graphs, each vertex of which has outdegree one. A network that can be realized by a set of simpler, parallel networks corresponds to a transformation graph representable as a Cartesian product of simpler graphs. An algorithm for obtaining the various decompositions of a given transformation graph into irreducible factors is presented. The particular decomposition into a minimum number of factors is directly reached by the method. Decompositions into a greater number of factors are also obtained so that a balance may be struck between number and complexity of factors."
"Abstract—This paper states the necessary and sufficient conditions for the existence of a feedforward inverse for a feedforward linear sequential circuit and gives an implicit procedure for constructing such inverses. It then goes on to give the necessary and sufficient conditions for the existence of general inverses with finite delay and gives procedures for constructing a class of such inverses. The discussion considers both the transfer function matrix description and the structural matrix description of the linear sequential circuit, together with the complementary nature of the results obtained from these two viewpoints. Finally, a large part of the work is motivated by results and techniques which have been applied in the study of continuous-time linear dynamical systems and thus serves to point out the advantages which may accrue through simultaneous study of both continuous-time systems and linear sequential circuits."
"Abstract—The concept of mutual monotonicity developed in the previous paper[1] is applied to the compound synthesis of an arbitrary logic function by a combination of completely monotonic functions or in most cases by threshold functions."
"Abstract—he problem of designing test schedules for the testing or diagnosis of a small number of nontransient faults in combinational digital circuits (switching networks) is considered in detail. By testing and diagnosis we mean the following: 1) detection of a fault, 2) location of a fault, and 3) location of a fault within the confines of a prescribed package or module. It is shown that minimal test schedules can be readily derived–using procedures already worked out for solving certain problems in pattern recognition and switching theory–under the assumption that the selection of the test inputs in the schedule is independent of the response of the circuit under test. When this assumption is not made, it is shown that much shorter test schedules are sometimes possible, and procedures are offered for obtaining good ones. Finally, the general status of diagnostics for digital circuits is reviewed and evaluated, and specific problems remaining to be solved are described."
"Abstract—A common nonparametric method for designing linear discriminant functions for pattern classification is the iterative, or \"adaptive,\" weight adjustment procedure, which designs the discriminant function to do well on a set of typical patterns. This paper presents a linear programming formulation of discriminant function design which minimizes the same objective function as the \"fixed-increment\" adaptive method. With this formulation, as with the adaptive methods, weights which tend to minimize the number of classification errors are computed for both separable and nonseparable pattern sets, and not just for separable pattern sets as has been the emphasis in previous linear programming formulations."
"Abstract—An efficient algorithm is presented for performing the Fourier transformation operation on a digital computer. This algorithm completes the transform calculation with Nlog2N complex additions (complex additions include complex subtractions) and ½N [log2(N)-2]+1 complex multiplications. This is a considerable savings over a brute-force method of N2complex additions and multiplications, especially when considering the use of digital machines whose MULTIPLY time is much longer than ADD time."
"Abstract—Sensitivity functions which relate the effect of parameter variations to system variables may be calculated for linear systems by simultaneous integration of two sets of first-order linear differential equations. These sets have the same homogeneous part. This note describes how an analog computer may be used to solve these equations without using two distinct simulations wired together. The number of integrators in the analog simulation is equal to the system order."
"Abstract—Generally applicable accurate diode voltage selectors are described as well as means for the reduction of static errors in cascade multipliers and in multiplier input converters. An analysis of static errors is given."
"Abstract—A method is described for modifying pseudorandom noise generators to obtain normally distributedor Gaussian spectral densities. This is achieved by using digital filtering techniques of weighted summation of digits stored in the shift register."
"Abstract—A model of autonomous logic nets composed of n threshold elements is presented and several properties of a single threshold element are generalized to this model. The number of these nets is shown to be 2kn³(½≤k≤l) for completely specified machines. The capacity of the net is defined and conjectured to be 2, similar to the case of a single threshold element. P and NPN classifications of the machines are proposed and applied to the enumeration of all periodic sequences of length 2n(n≤4) realizable by this net. The state assignment problem of the net is also treated. The existence of transition diagrams which cannot be realized by this model for any state assignment, or of those that can be realized for any state assignment, is shown, and it turns out that almost all completely specified machines belong to the former class when n is sufficiently large. Considering the synthesis of a net, an application of learning procedure is also discussed and it is pointed out that only periodic sequences of length 2\" can be learned automatically."
"Abstract—In this note, a class of switching functions, called threshold-product functions, whose definition is analogous to that of threshold functions (which will be called threshold-sum functions), is studied in detail. It is shown that both threshold functions and parity functions are special cases of threshold-product functions. A simple and economical threshold-logic realization method is established for threshold-product functions. This economical realization method is based on constrained solutions for threshold-product functions. A systematic technique for finding a constrained solution for a threshold-product function is obtained, and this technique can be employed for testing whether a switching function is a threshold-product function as well. When the number of variables in a switching function is not large, say no more than 6, a simpler method for the above purposes is found. Furthermore, a threshold-logic realization method which yields a minimal realization for certain threshold-product functions is obtained."
"Abstract—The results of three experiments with Highleyman's hand-printed characters are reported. Nearest-neighbor classification is used to explain the high error rates (42 to 60 percent) obtained by general statistical procedures. An error rate of 32 percent is obtained by preceding piecewise-linear classification by edge-detecting preprocessing. The minimum human error rate is estimated, and suggested as a performance standard."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"With this paper the authors are announcing development in progress on a simulation programming language which they have named SODAS ( Structure Oriented Description and Simulation). Motivation for the development is provided by an opening discussion of desirable attributes of a language for general system design. A brief description of SODAS syntax and semantics follows, and then a SODAS program for simulation of a highway traffic control system, a fairly detailed example of how the language fulfills the desired objectives."
"Second generation computing systems rarely had an aggregate of peripheral devices with high enough data transfer rates to tax memory speed or to degrade central processor ( CP) performance. Whenever they did, there was no attempt to overlap transfer with computing, and the CP remained idle. But in many third generation systems, there are several processors-both I/O devices and arithmetic units-operating asynchronously and independently, each of which has a high transfer rate to main memory. Thus, the question of designing sufficient bandwidth into memories and buses is significant. Experience with some of the commercial multiprocessing systems (e. g., UNIVAC 1108 or IBM 360/67) shows, however, that sufficient bandwidth is not enough. The system must be organized so that the full bandwidth, or at least a large fraction of it, can be used effectively. It is this problem to which the author has ably addressed his paper."
"The deliveries of the new third generation computers have presented users with a multitude of problems. Not the least of these is the question of machine configuration. One of the characteristics of the new systems is the flexibility of configuration relative to the older equipment being replaced. No longer can one install \"system x.\" Rather one selects central processor unit (CPU) x and then adds a wide variety of I/O channels, control units, and devices. Equipment selection is not the end of the problem either, for there are many ways to arrange any particular set of devices. Further, not only can configuration changes significantly affect performance, but the effectiveness of any particular configuration is dependent upon an installation's workload. Thus, a configuration which is quite satisfactory for Company Y may be very ineffective for Company Z."
"This paper is an introduction which presents only the first layer of the makeup of graphics. While this layer is explained sufficiently and clearly, as in many tutorial papers, value judgements are studiously avoided. The primary purpose, therefore, of this review will be to place in perspective some of the alternatives presented."
"Hawryszkiewycz describes a dual-mode problem-oriented simulation language. He utilizes the microprogram capability of the CIRRUS computer to simulate the function of certain analog components in the solution of differential equations. These equations are presented to the analyst in block-diagram form."
"The paper by Smith is representative of a class of spacecraft-guided simulation problems wherein the body dynamics of the spacecraft are eliminated by assuming that the inertia of the body is zero. Thus rotational accelerations become infinite and attitude system-response times are taken to be zero. The simulation of such problems is most generally performed entirely on digital equipment because the rate of change of the guidance function is generally of the same order as the rate of change of the trajectory parameters."
"The purpose of the investigation reported in this paper was to test the feasibility of solving Laplace's equation in a three-dimensional region having asymmetric boundaries by means of an electrolytic tank and also by a three-dimensional network of resistors. The region considered was one octant of an ellipsoid."
"The purpose of this paper is to develop design equations for switched positive-resistance digital-to-analog converters. The authors state that no synthesis method heretofore has existed for the design of this type of ladder network. The problem to which the paper addresses itself is the following"
"In conventional digital computation, continuous quantities are quantized and represented by binary words in which the number of bits determines the precision of representation. In stochastic computation, as described in this paper, continuous quantities are represented as a sequence of one-bit binary words (i. e., as a pulse stream or sequence of logic levels) in which the probability of an ON logic level is a measure of the quantity. Since probability is a continuous variable in the range O≤p≤1, this removes the effects of quantization. However, a probability cannot be measured precisely, only estimated subject to random variance, and hence there is an effective random noise in the output of the computer."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"Abstract—This paper considers the problem of determining whether a sequential machine, given by its flow table, can be realized in the form of a single binary shift register. One-to-one and many-to-one assignments are considered. Binary partitions are introduced, and shift registers are characterized in terms of binary partitions. An algorithm is given for the determination of the required partitions for a shift-register assignment. Binary set systems are introduced and shift registers are characterized in terms of binary set systems. It is proven that there exists a sequential machine that cannot be realized by a single binary shift register of finite length. Methods for determining the set systems necessary for a single shift-register assignment are given. For machines where every state has two distinct next states, a method is presented whereby a number of machines can be easily eliminated as being not fsr realizable. It is then shown how this can be extended to all machines."
"Abstract—A new class of modular networks, called \"modular tree networks,\" is presented. In these circuits every input of the first-level gate is connected to the output of a different second-level unit, and, in general, every input of every ith-level unit is connected to the output of a different (i+1)th-level unit."
"Abstract—A class of networks is described that has the capability of permuting in an arbitrary manner a set of n digital input lines onto a set of n digital output lines. The circuitry of the networks is arranged in cellular form, i. e., in a two-dimensional iterative pattern with mainly local intercell connections, where the basic cell behaves as a reversing switch with a single memory flip-flop. Various network forms are described, differing in the number of cells needed, in the shape of the array, and in the length and regularity of intercell connections. Also discussed are some ways of setting up the array to achieve a desired permutation."
"Abstract—Recent studies have shown that many noise processes in sequential networks can be described as a multinomial process, a Markov process, or a linearly dependent process. This paper extends the results of those studies to show how the statistics of any sequence selected from processes of this type can be calculated."
"Abstract—This paper treats the problem of finding efficient secondary assignments for synchronous sequential circuits. It presents a straightforward approach which identifies codes resulting in the least number of memory elements and sets of simple next-state functions, expressed in the sum-of-product form."
"Abstract—The display system, named MODEL T, accepts coded digital data from a voice grade telephone line and displays graphical and alphanumeric information on a direct-view storage tube. Since a storage tube is used, no local refresh is required to maintain the display. The essential virtue of the MODEL T is the combined graphic and alphanumeric capability in an economic design. The MODEL T operates in an incremental vector mode, each vector being described by 7 bits. A vector calls for the display to move the beam from its present location along one of eight directions, a distance of one of eight permissible lengths, with the beam either on or off. A vector is drawn as a series of dots which are written at a uniform rate. A minimnum command structure is provided. The MODEL T draws 240 vectors per second (over a 2400-baud telephone link) and can thus display rather complicated patterns in a matter of seconds. Normally alphanumeric symbols are formed from a sequence of vectors under software control; a character generator can be added for increased speed. The MODEL T, without a character generator, can write text substantially faster than a TELETYPE."
"Abstract—The possible introduction of changeable control memories in fourth-generation computers may color the manner in which programming systems are designed and implemented. With this type of machine, we will be able to implement varieties of instruction sets by writing microprograms to interpret them. The trade-offs involved in deciding what part of a system is to be handled by the hardware and what part is to be handled by software will provide a challenge for future systems designers and implementers."
"Abstract—A digital processor capable of computing the discrete Fourier transform for a range of audio signals in real time has been built as part of a facility to conduct research in signal processing. The digitized sample values can be complex. The arithmetic unit is configured to perform complex connectives, and automatic array scaling is used to make numerical accuracy independent of signal level. The Cooley–Tukey \"fast Fourier transform\" is the algorithm used."
"Abstract—An unconventional approach to character recognition is developed. The resulting system is based solely on the statistical properties of the language, therefore it can read printed text with no previous training or a priori information about the structure of the characters. The known letter-pair frequencies of the language are used to identify the printed symbols in the following manner."
"Abstract—This note defines a general F matrix that arises from a tree that is formed according to a specific element priority. An alternative based on this matrix is presented to the usual method of repeated matrix manipulation for arriving at the solutions of various network quantities. The conditions required for this alternative and its limitations are also presented."
"Abstract—This note describes several methods of performing fast, efficient, binary-to-decimal conversion. With a modest amount of circuitry, an order of magnitude speed improvement is obtained. This achievement offers a unique advantage to general-purpose computers requiring special hardware to translate between binary and decimal numbering systems."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"The design considerations leading to the decision to equip a large time-sharing system at Carnegie–Mellon University with a very large addressable—but slow—core memory, instead of using the standard disk or drum swapping devices, are illustrated."
"Slow access to files of information (directories, tables, executable code, etc.) held on secondary memory devices such as drums and disks is often the prime limitation on the response time and throughput of a computer system. Therefore, the algorithm used for scheduling data transfer requests involving these devices should be carefully considered in the design of large-scale systems. In this paper an attempt is made (by closed form analysis of mathematical models) to compare the effect of several different scheduling algorithms for drums and disks. The scheduling algorithms treated are primarily designed to improve the utilization (or throughput) of the device over that obtained by serving all requests in order of arrival (FCFS). The results are of interest but in the case of the disk analysis the comparisons are invalid because the author, unwittingly, has not derived the same parameter for each case."
"This paper proposes an approach to improving the regularity of computer logic for the more effective use of LSI which has been limited by the number of pins and wiring layers."
"This paper combines a useful review of progress during the past year, a description of present programs and immediate goals, and some forecasts of ultimate goals. Although the author, as director of Texas Instruments' semiconductor research and development laboratories, deals primarily with programs and points of view at TI, he makes enough references to work at other companies to build up a reasonably comprehensive picture of the large-scale integration field. Four main areas are covered: bipolar chip technology, full-slice technology, MOS technology, and hybrid technology."
"For more than fifteen years, people have been talking and writing about the possibility of chess playing programs. Previous \"successful\" programs have played a scaled-down game, parts of the game, or a weak overall game. This paper describes the first chess program to play a creditable amateur tournament game; it won the class D trophy in a Massachusetts State Chess Association Amateur Tournament. The paper is a well-written case study in artificial intelligence."
"One of the most important problems in computer development today is the difficult job of constructing programs and programming languages to handle a wide variety of tasks. There are two pure approaches to programming language design and an endless number of mixed approaches lying between them. One of the pure approaches, often taken by graduate students in universities, is to create a new programming language for each problem. The other approach, perhaps typified by certain supporters of PL/I, is to design a language which is intended hopefully to be all things to all programmers. Unfortunately, neither of these pure approaches is really practical. People have long recognized the common features of programming problems and most agree that certain techniques are applicable to almost all of them. However, with the burgeoning use of the machine it is not possible to assert with any degree of confidence that we have discovered all useful techniques. A reasonable way to proceed seems to be to design a programming language which contains most of the common features which people have discovered in various problems, but which allows the user to extend and mold the language to suit his particular application."
"With the growing abundance of time-sharing systems we begin to hear more and more about text editors. These programs were originally designed to satisfy the common need for creating and modifying source language programs for the various programming language processors found in a time-sharing system. Soon it became obvious that editors could be used in many other situations, for example, in data preparation, report generation, manuscript editing, and in some cases even as the programming language itself. This paper describes a text editor, QED, which has been in use in the Berkeley time-sharing system for the SDS-930 and which has benefited from two and a half years of user experience."
"Howe has included a variety of valuable information in this paper, the unifying thread being the improvement of precision in analog devices, a topic in which he has long been a leader and innovator. This paper describes 1) precise means of implementing with hardware nonlinear mathematical models involving function generation, multiplication, and division, and 2) techniques of scaling the mathematical model so as to obtain full benefit of the precision available in the analog devices. It is unfortunate that the details of this latest work are somewhat obscured by several errors in the published paper."
"This page or pages intentionally left blank."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"Abstract—This paper deals with theoretical and experimental aspects of estimating correlation functions of signals generated by nonstationary processes. The estimation process is based on approximation of the expectation or ensemble average definition of the correlation function. The assumption of stationarity regarding the signals under analysis need not be made. Emphasis is placed on off-line analysis, where immediate readout of a correlation-function estimate is not required. Hybrid or digital computation may be used for off-line analysis, resulting in drift-free, repeatable results. The estimation procedure is developed with the aid of filtering theory. Three different solutions for estimation are presented: two-dimensional filtering, one-dimensional filtering, and one-dimensional filtering with deficient a priori data. Experimental results obtained from the digital computer are presented for the latter solution."
"Abstract—In the design of magnetic film memories and high-speed printed wiring systems, it is often necessary to estimate the coupling between adjacent conductors which are, in effect, strip lines with asymmetric ground planes. No solution to this problem exists in the literature. An heuristic approximation is found, and validated experimentally, which allows a very simple calculation (over the resultant coupling range of 0.1 to 20 percent) to have an error of less than 25 percent. This is, in general, adequate for such purposes."
"Abstract—An improved switch core principle is described which can be applied to a pulsewidth as short as 50 ns. The factors usually limiting switch core performance, such as pulse distortion due to low field strength, heat, and noise are eliminated by the use of long, thin permalloy needles. These needles can easily be provided with coils with a large number of turns and thus high field strengths can be applied. Because of its improved cooling properties and the fact that a permanent magnet bias can be used, the heat problem is greatly reduced . Finally, the permalloy material has such extremely good saturation properties that the noise figures are reduced in spite of the higher speed."
"Abstract—The magnetic second-harmonic analog memory is a device capable of performing the functions of an integrator and an analog memory. The device consists of two magnetic cores wound in such a way that an output voltage of even-harmonic relationship to a drive voltage is produced having an amplitude proportional to remanent core flux. In the following paper, device performance and fundamental design criteria are discussed. Although electrical characterization is emphasized, device performance in a hostile thermal and mechanical environment is also considered briefly."
"Abstract—A frequently imposed restriction in theoretical treatments of asynchronous sequential circuits is that only one input variable be allowed to change during a transition. In this paper, we present three methods for realizing asynchronous sequential circuits allowing multiple-input changes, but requiring that all input changes associated with an input transition be completed within a specified time after the first change. We also show that a single delay element is sufficient in the realization of normal mode flow tables, under these conditions."
"Abstract—In this paper, methods are presented for designing error-correcting capabilities into threshold gate networks so that the logic gates themselves will correct errors of other gates in the network . In all but one of these methods, a given realization is modified by the addition of redundant gates to obtain an error-correcting network . Realizations are obtained by the first three methods which require that an error of any given number of gates be corrected by the gates immediately following those which are in error. This is the multiplexed realization. In the remaining methods, this requirement is replaced by the requirement that a given number of errors be corrected by some gates in the network. Errors of the output gate are not corrected. The last section discusses a method for obtaining an error-correcting network directly from the Boolean function to be realized."
"Abstract—Repetitious activity is assumed in randomly interconnected networks of elements with spacial and temporal summation of input excitation and exponentially decaying threshold and stimulation. Bounds on the period of that oscillatory activity are theoretically established, and verified by computer simulation. The dependency of such bounds on threshold and stimulation decay rates, number of inputs to each element, maximum and return values of threshold, the presence of inhibitory elements in a network, and the profile of network activity is shown."
"Abstract—A simple synthesis procedure has been derived for the simultaneous realization of two arbitrary binary functions of the same 4 variables in a single two-rail cascade. The synthesis method is based on successive transformations of the given table of functions into the table realizable by a 2-cell cascade. Usable transformations relate to 13 classes of 2-input, 2-output networks, a list of which is presented. Every transformation of the table of functions requires the use of one cell in the cascade. The canonical two-rail cellular cascades for functions of 4 and more input variables are also presented and the use of a common decoder for great cellular arrays is suggested."
"Abstract—A number of techniques exist for realizing completely symmetric switching functions.1 Completely symmetric switching functions are particularly simple and economical to realize using contact-type gating elements. This paper shows that any switching function can be transformed to a completely symmetric switching function in which some of the arguments are redundant. (Obviously, if a given function is already completely symmetric no transformation is necessary.) The partial symmetry information inherent in a given function plays an important role in the transformation. Efficient machine-oriented methods exist for detecting the partial symmetries present in a switching function."
"Abstract—Triple modular redundancy becomes common when applications place a high premium on the reliability of a digital computer . As the weight, volume, and cost of electronic components decrease, 5-, 7-, or 9-fold redundancies should be considered. This short note presents expressions on the reliabilities of a general n-fold redundant system."
"Abstract—A particular method for storage of first-in-first-out queues in random access memory is analyzed. The storage scheme gives minimum overhead costs at the expense of storage utilization. The resulting queue is analyzed as a Markov chain and the stationary, joint probability distribution is obtained for the queue length and the relative location of the head of the queue. Expressions for the mean length and the locations of the head and the tail of the queue are also derived."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Broadly speaking, an automaton can be considered to be an abstract device consisting of an input tape, a finite state control, and some type of auxiliary memory. Automata have been classified according to the structure of the auxiliary memory and the manner in which information can be stored and retrieved from this memory."
"The advent of microprogramming is likely to cause a major change in the way we use computers. The reason is that it provides a nearly complete decoupling between the efforts of computer design engineers and programmers. When the engineers provide a microcode that can be changed under program control, they will be able to pass on to the programmer a major portion of the design of the machine instruction set. The question is what the programmers will do with it when they get it."
"A simple model of a hydroelectric generation system is described in this paper, as well as its implementation on an analog computer. Dynamic optimization of the system, its implementation using analog and digital computers, and applications of the self-optimizing system are briefly discussed."
"This paper describes work carried out by the author while working for his Ph.D. degree. The work was done at the University of Arizona, Tucson, under the supervision of Prof. G. Kron, using Arizona Statistical Repetitive analog Computer (ASTRAC II). The ultra-high speed of ASTRAC II permitted the author of obtain Monte Carlo solutions of partial differential equations at a much higher rate than previously reported and to continuously display these solutions."
"This paper is addressed to people who utilize hybrid computation facilities for the simulation of control systems and other applications invoking the stability of a closed loop. It could also be useful to anybody, with or without an available hybrid facility, who is concerned with the problems introduced by discontinuities and fixed time delays in control and feedback systems."
"This page or pages intentionally left blank."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"Abstract—An extensive survey of logic and memory component manufacturers conducted by the NASA Electronic Research Center and the industry has resulted in estimates of the state-of-the-art of components available to designers of on-board guidance and control computers for long-term deep-space missions for the 1970-72 period. The vehicle for the survey were the mission requirements for the synchronous satellite, lunar orbiter, Mars orbiter, and Jupiter fly-by solar probe missions."
"Abstract—A computer, the Visual Image Processor, is described which is designed to process visual images. Images are read by a vidicon camera and stored in any of three identical cathode-ray electrostatic storage tubes. Two storage systems are read simultaneously, with the reading beams spatially displaced from each other, and a signal which is a function of the reading signals is written into the third storage system. The spatial displacement of the reading beams and the function are variable and under control of the computer operator."
"Abstract—This paper describes a computer program for analyzing a class of transmission line configurations which arise in the design of memory arrays. The systems analyzed by the program consist of interconnected pairs of mutually coupled distributed parameter transmission lines driven and terminated by linear lumped element networks. A brief discussion of the mathematical model and its implementation is given and applications of the program to the design of 2½D and 3D memory arrays are described. The applications illustrate how the program can be used to evaluate pulse propagation characteristics and noise generation mechanisms within a memory array."
"Abstract—This paper analyzes invertible length-preserving convolutional transformations of binary sequences, when the perfect inverse feedback transducer is replaced by a finite feedforward (i. e., convolutional) transducer which represents an approximation of the former. This replacement eliminates the error propagation effect, but the finiteness of the \"inverse\" transducer (decoder) results in a restriction on the input sequences, for which exact replication is achieved in the two-way transduction (transformation and recovery). The entity of the input restriction can be taken as a measure of performance for sets of transformations, and can be described in terms of the upper bound of the entropies of the binary sources which are \"matched\" to the system (direct and inverse transducers). This bound is clearly the capacity of the system viewed as a noiseless channel. It is shown that, if r is the number of decoder stages, the channel capacity has an asymptotic expression C≃1-Abr, where the parameters b < 1 and A depend solely upon the structure of the set of resynchronizing states (RS cluster) possessed by the given set of transformations."
"Abstract—Variable-threshold threshold elements (V-T threshold elements) are threshold elements in which the weights are fixed while the threshold may be varied. When the threshold is varied, a set of functions is generated."
"Abstract—A variable-threshold net is a network of variable-threshold threshold elements in which the threshold of all elements is a common variable parameter. Synthesis of such nets to realize a given set of functions not realizable by a single element is discussed. An application to realizing sequential machines is described. The problem of prevention of malfunction due to component drift is formalized and solved."
"Abstract—The Boolean difference is defined. It is shown through example how the Boolean difference is used to analyze the effect of errors on the outputs of logic circuits. Examples are given of error detection problems, analysis of redundant logic, and the generation of diagnostic sequences."
"Abstract—A definition of the tolerance for the weights of adaptive threshold elements is given which is more relevant to the characteristics of real adaptive components. A learning procedure is then proposed, which employs a sequence of different and increasing values of dead zone. This procedure achieves the determination of the set of maximum tolerance weights and its soundness is shown by systematic tests performed by simulation on an IBM 7094 digital computer on all the binary functions of 5 variables."
"Abstract—This note discusses possible advantages to be gained through use of associative memory in finding the shortest path through a large graph having edges of unequal lengths. An algorithm is described which exploits associative memory's highly parallel search and arithmetic capabilities and which is economical in storage requirements."
"Abstract—In this note we describe a new way of computing the inner product of two vectors. This method cuts down the number of multiplications required when we want to perform a large number of inner products on a smaller set of vectors. In particular, we obtain that the product of two n×n matrices can be performed using roughly n3/2 multiplications instead of the n3multiplications which the regular method necessitates."
"Abstract—Two design techniques are presented which allow one counter circuit to divide a fixed-reference frequency by a wide range of counts. In the examples used the output frequency is preselected on three 10-position selector switches, providing for division of the input reference frequency by N, where 1≤N≤999. The techniques described are not dependent on the type of digital logic used and are therefore applicable to any family of binary logic modules."
"Abstract—A switching function A is viewed as a subset of vertices of the unit n-cube. The power parameter of A is the number of vertices comprising A and the characterizing vector is the vector sum of the vertices of A. It is shown that the characterizing vector (without the power parameter) uniquely determines a threshold function within parity."
"Abstract—A \"synthesis technique\" is presented for \"realizing\" any arbitrary binary input-binary output \"synchronous sequential Moore machine\" in the form of a network composed of identical 2-state \"component machines.\" With slight modification the synthesis technique presented can be used to realize any given n-input-p-output synchronous sequential Moore machine in the form of a network composed of identical 2-state component machines."
"Abstract&#8212;Two consistent and complete formal systems for the algebraic transformation of regular expressions involving intersections and complements are given. Both systems are extensions of the system F<inf>1</inf>presented in Salomaa [5]. As a result, a method of eliminating intersections and complements from regular expressions is obtained. This solves a problem proposed by Eggan."
"In a recent paper Graham and Distler1have shown how all the possible combinations of the input equations of an RST flip-flop can be displayed simultaneously on the Karnaugh maps. This claim is valid only if a1, a2on the R map and a3, a4on the S map are replaced by ai, and each aican be chosen independently of the others. Whereas, in the Graham and Distler techniques, a1chosen to be 1 (or 0) on one vertex of the Karnaugh map implies that all a1are to be 1 (or 0), and the same is true about a2, a3, and a4."
"The paper by Mine and Kogal appears to have some unstated assumptions and inconsistencies which affect the validity of their claim to have presented \"an effective method of logical design for fail-safe systems.\""
"In Theorem 3, it is clearly stated that the fail-safe output of a basic function is severely restricted by the failed output of the preceding basic functions (though two Iff's in the statement of Theorem 3 should be If's). It is obvious, as a matter of course, that a single failure of an element in a logical circuit may cause different effects on its following logical functions. It should be noted here that we do not deal with types of internal failures of logical circuits but with outputs of logical functions being restricted by their following logical functions. If open inputs to the terminal logic shown in Fig. 1 of Mr. Foster's comment are allowed, then the conditions in Theorem 3 are not satisfied any more. This apparently does not cause any inconsistency in our paper.1Examples of fail-safe NOR circuits shown in Section V are illustrated for the construction of fail-safe logical systems only with NOR circuits. This should have been noted in our paper."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"This paper describes an Integrating Analog-to-Digital Converter whose principle of operation is as follows. The output of an analog integrator is monitored by two comparators for positive and negative overflows with respect to a given level q. The comparators drive a bidirectional counter. After every overflow, a pulse of current is added to the integrator input; the polarity, magnitude, and duration of this pulse are calculated to offset the output of the integrator by the amount q."
"This paper describes a number of computing elements, each combining AD or DA conversion with one or more arithmetic operations or function generation. The elements, termed PHENOs, are claimed to have bandwidth-accuracy products equal to or better than the best linear analog computing components. The authors suggest that PHENOs may be put to good use in two areas. First, in general-purpose hybrid computation, where they represent a logical extension of the MDAC (multiplying digital-to-analog converter) in improving the AD interface. Second, in applications requiring miniaturization, the ability to function in an adverse environment, and the ease of interface with DDA (digital differential analyzer) components, as in airborne and shipboard devices. Both claims appear to be well-founded and merit further investigation by hardware experts in these two fields."
"This is a somewhat discursive but informative article on the hybrid Apollo docking simulation. The authors do not identify their objective in writing the paper until the very last sentence of the concluding section, where they state: \"It is hoped that some part of the description of the problems, solutions, and experiences will be useful to others who are now involved, or who may become involved, in simulations similar to the one described.\" With that as an objective,much of the detailed material on problem characteristics and specifications of the docking test device could have been condensed into an introductory or parenthetical paragraph. The discussion of why a hybrid computer was selected in preference to an all-analog or all-digital system, and of the way the problem was distributed between the analog and digital portions of the hybrid system, also adds little to the paper or to previously published material on these subjects."
"This paper deals with the problem of selecting the best approximation to an arbitrary function, using a given number of straight line segments to form the approximation. This is, of course, the basic problem of programming functions for generation by analog function generators. The author has formalized a noteworthy technique for optimal selection of breakpoints, and coupled his technique with a slope-selecting procedure based on least-squares optimization."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"This page or pages intentionally left blank."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"Abstract—A new READ-only memory design using resistive linear coupling has been developed for high-speed operation. Cost, reliability, and high-speed considerations lead to the use of large-scale integrated resistor matrices. Principles of operation, signal-to-noise ratios, circuits, and memory organization are discussed. The design and fabrication of large-scale integrated resistor matrices is emphasized. Cycle times as fast as 50 and 100 ns have been achieved on 256-word 80-bit modules."
"Abstract—An analysis is made with equations developed for the capacitive effect of RC loading with multiple reflections on pulse-signal transmission lines. The capacitive hold waveshape and hold time are described and compared with experimental results. Isolating the capacitive effect from the purely resistive case is accomplished so that this effect can be used to modify existing solutions. The analysis results show that a significant capacitive hold time occurs before the wave approaches its final value with oscillations occurring about the initial voltage value. The number of cycles of oscillation are equal to the number of times the wave has been reflected, and the amplitude of oscillation increases with each cycle. These effects are independent of transmission line length. Results are applicable for any system with RC loading and transmission-line effects and, in particular, for high-speed pulse systems. The mathematical results can either be directly applied in reflection analysis or the relative capacitive hold-time results can be added as a corrective factor."
"Abstract—An analysis is made of the forms in which linear transformer trees may be operated. It is determined that in a voltage mode—voltage source configuration, a transformer tree can yield the 22<R>n</R> discrete outputs corresponding to an n-bit input word, requiring a single diode or equivalent nonlinear element per logical product. It is also shown in this configuration that by including additional input transformers, use can be made of flux storage to produce a synchronous automaton whose ultimate speed is limited by the switching rate of the active elements and distributed reactance only. In a voltage mode—impedance source configuration, a system producing 2<R>n</R> decoded outputs results, which appears to have particular significance in core-store and READ-only memory drive applications. Based on this, a high-speed storage system is proposed."
"Abstract—The structure of ILLIAC IV, a parallel-array computer containing 256 processing elements, is described. Special features include multiarray processing, multiprecision arithmetic, and fast data-routing interconnections. Individual processing elements execute 4×10<R>6</R> instructions per second to yield an effective rate of 109 operations per second."
"Abstract—An overview of the ILLIAC IV system is given and its software plans are discussed."
"Abstract—There are several algorithms that determine directly an irredundant normal form (INF) of a Boolean function without generating the entire set of prime implicants. These algorithms can generate solutions for the minimization problem much more rapidly than the algorithms determining minimum normal forms (MNF), and the cost of these solutions is, in many cases, very close to the minimum."
"Abstract—This note describes the application of sensitivity analysis techniques for the design of closed loop nonlinear systems with specific inputs. The optimization of the gains and the time constants of the various linear plants of the system as well as the design of nonlinear compensators are discussed. Sensitivity functions, which indicate the effect of variation of these parameters on the system response, are derived and the analog mechanization is shown. As an example, a position servosystem is considered and the design of a nonlinear compensator is attempted. A reference model is chosen and the system response is compared to this reference in the minimum-integral-error-square sense. Use is made of the sensitivity functions of parameters of the compensator and the optimization of these parameters is carried out on an iterative analog computer. The gradient technique is used for finding the optimum point in the parameter space."
"Abstract—The problem of resolving multiple responses to a search in an associative or content-addressable memory is considered. A resolver is presented whose maximum delay is proportional to the logarithm of the size of the memory."
"Abstract—In this note, three suboptimal solutions are obtained for the joint sequential feature selection and pattern classification problem. These solutions allow the comparison of two distinctly different approximations to the optimal procedure. One approximation involves simplifying assumptions on the underlying distribution of features for each pattern class, while the second involves an approximation in the implementation of the optimal procedure."
"Abstract—A variable-length distinguishing sequence (VLDS) is a preset distinguishing sequence X<L>0</L> such that, if the machine is started in an unknown state, the output response of the machine to some prefix of X<L>0</L> will identify the initial state. The length of the required prefix is a function of the initial state. The properties of such sequences are investigated and a method which employs a modified version of the diagnosing tree is developed for generating and displaying all such sequences. The fixed-length distinguishing sequence (FLDS) is shown to be a special case of the more general VLDS. The VLDS is next applied in the design of simple and efficient preset fault-detection experiments for sequential machines."
"Abstract—A structure of distributive lattice is defined on the set of partial coverings of a finite nonempty set. From this structure is derived an algorithm for calculating a minimal closed covering of the states in an incomplete sequential machine."
"Quine shows [2], [3] that a logical formula expressed as a sum of products may be transformed into the sum of all its prime implicants by repeated application of the following two rules."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"The title of this paper is misleading. It should read \"Suggestions for New Data Types and Manipulations for PL/I.\" It is not about programming without data, but about accessing highly structured data in a systematic way. The goal is to minimize the difficulty of changing the data structure at a late date in the programming cycle."
"The purpose of this paper is to explore the effect of multiple modules of memory together with multiple bus lines for providing effective communication between memory and processors or channel controllers. Apparently the study was undertaken to determine an optimum configuration of equipment for an installation to be made by a computer manufacturer to a university. It suffers from the necessary evil which abides in studying a particular system under specific limitations applying to that system. The author has made no attempt to generalize his results regarding priority and processor performance as effected by the number of modules and buses available. The special restrictions which apply are in terms of channel controller timing and drum unit datum acquisition."
"In analog computation there is a tendency not only to strive for the highest possible accuracy, but very often the ciiterion for accepting an analog scheme also requires minimizing the number of computer components and the duration of the problem preparation time. On the other hand, in analog or hybrid computation every sophistication intended to improve accuracy usually calls for more computer equipment, and every sophistication introduced to reduce comptuter equipment usually requires more time for problem preparation. Having this in mind, the method of Bessel function generation, discussed in Bingulac and Humol (Reference 5 in Hausner's paper), may be considered as the first degree of sophistication, since in developing this method the only criterion was to reduce the complexity of the analog computer scheme, thereby decreasing the number of computer components. Van Remoartere's method, 2 however, represents the second degree of sophistication because a) it divides the whole range of the independent vatiable into two subintervals, and b) in the first subinterval it approximates the solution by a Taylor series. This of course improves the accuracy but on the other hand, the number of analog computer components increases."
"While the title of this paper is technically correct, it perhaps would have been better to entitle it \"Curve Fitting, by Analog Simulation Methods, to Obtain the Transfer Function of a Crustacean Muscle Bundle,\" since this short paper is almost entirely concerned with the analog techniques used to measure the amplitude and phase response of a transfer function subjected to a sinusoidal input forcing function. If the input sinusoidal frequency is slowly swept across the frequencies of interest, then such measuring circuits (if they are fast enough) will allow the experimenter to generate a continuous Bode plot (i.e., gain and phase versus frequency) of the simulated transfer function."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"This page or pages intentionally left blank."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"Abstract—Four-phase MOS circuits exhibit many peculiar features not observed in other families of logic circuits. In this paper, a mathematical model which characterizes the circuits is presented for logic simulation. It is shown that this model enables us to develop a computer program which can rapidly and efficiently verify and evaluate the logic design of the circuits."
"Abstract—In high-speed magnetic surface recording devices such as disk memory and drum memory of digital computers, the read-out signal may be as low as 1 mV. If the read-out circuit is not properly designed, the signal-to-noise ratio could easily drop down to a level such that the digital information could not be reconstructed. It is, therefore, of vital importance that the data reconstruction circuits be designed to have high output for signal frequency while keepingminimum response to noise frequencies."
"Abstract—A method of extending the usefulness of residue coding (or congruence checking) to check for errors in operations such as complement, shift, and rotate (or cycle) is presented. The checking logic and a practical method for its implementation are derived. The cost of check circuitry is only of the order of 30 to 40 percent of the part of the processor that is subjected to checking. In another paper presently under review, a method for single error correction using a new code called \"bi-residue code\" is presented."
"Abstract—Successful design and manufacture of future digital systems will depend upon the availability of a suitable design language. A precise, concise language is presented which facilitates the specification of complex digital systems. The language 1) is independent of any particular technology, design procedure, machine organization, etc., 2) allows specification at different levels of detail from architecture to detailed Boolean equations, and 3) may be com- piled into manufacturing information. Its syntax and semantics per- mit documents with an organization which parallels the block struc- ture of the systems they specify."
"Abstract—A nonparametric training procedure for finding the optimal weights of the discriminant functions of a pattern classifier in any optimization criterion, expressible as a convex function from an arbitrary sequence of sample patterns, is proposed. This design procedure is based on the stochastic approximation technique, and has the updating property because it processes the sample patterns whenever they become available. This procedure is used to find the optimal weights for the least-mean-square error criterion, and is shown to require very simple computation which leads to simple implementation. Both two-category and multi-category cases are considered, and an acceleration scheme to increase the rate of convergence for the training procedure is also presented. These results are demonstrated by examples."
"Abstract—A method is presented for synthesizing a sequential network for detecting a given n-place nonperiodic binary sequence within a data stream. The n-place nonperiodic sequence is characterized as a binary (n, r) ring sequence. The state assignment for r 2-state memory elements is determined from an ordered set of n distinct subsequences r bits in length. The minimization of r simultaneous Boolean functions of r+l variables yields a representation of internal combinational logic in two-level form."
"Abstract—The cost, or complexity, of a switching network is defined in two ways: by its diode count and by the number of modules from a predefined set required to build it. These modules were chosen as representative of a modular diode-transistor technology. With the aid of Monte Carlo methods the following formula was obtained for the average cost, C(n, g, h), of the two-level minimal form of a 1-output combinational logical network which implements a Boolean function with g \"one\" vertices, h \"zero\" vertices, and n independent variables: where the K's are constants. Since the same formula, except for the values of the constants, was obtained for the two different definitions of cost, one hopes that it would only be necessary to change the value of the constants to use the formula with other technologies. The formula was tested on 195 computer-generated samples. The average error was found to be 15.3 percent for the diode count and 15.7 percent for the module count. With the values of the K's set for predicting average diode count, the formula was tested on 48 existing networks. The average percentage error between predicted and actual cost was found to be 32.9 percent (the higher error is possibly due to a nonrandom selection of the input codes)."
"Abstract—A new method of designing and implementing intrinsically failure-tolerant counters with error-correcting state assignments is proposed. Threshold logic elements are used, and state recovery circuitry is united with the flip-flop input logic. A decimal counter built according to this method requires considerably fewer components and has a lower probability of failure at less cost than a diode logic version."
"Abstract—The application of a fast division algorithm, particu-larly suitable for floating-point arithmetic, to signed-digit number systems is described. This method, based on the method of A. Svo-boda, is performed in two steps: 1) the divisor is adjusted to be of the form (1+e) where e is a fractional quantity, while the dividend is adjusted accordingly, and 2) the generation of each quotient digit is determined by only one digit in the partial remainder together with the transfer digit (or carry/borrow) emanating from it. A working example of radix 16 is given."
"Abstract—A general analysis of conventional high-speed, linearpassive, binary, READ-only stores is performed by the application of the scattering-matrix formalism. It is found that for a broad class of cases, which include most READ-only stores that have been discussed in the literature, the maximum transmission of power from a word driver to a sense amplifier is one divided by the number of bits stored in the memory. Other types of stores are considered that do not suffer from such a severe power degradation, but these appear to be pattern-sensitive."
"Abstract—This note describes a new analog-memory or variable- weight device that can be set to any of 100 stable states and switched between states in 100 ns or less. The device uses the coupling between a circularly polarized microwave signal (as generated by a helical structure) and a partially switched ferrite core."
"Abstract—The problem of embedding nonlinear machines into larger, linear ones is considered. The notions involved are carefully defined, and a set of necessary and sufficient conditions for a submachine of a linear machine to be nonlinear is given, for the case in which the submachine utilizes the full input alphabet. An example illustrates the most important theorems."
"Abstract—A new approach to solving a set of nonlinear equations, described by fi(x1, x2, . . ., xn) = 0, i= 1, 2, ..., n, is presented. The computation is carried out by simple matrix inversion and matrix multiplication without evaluation of ∂fi/∂xj. Thus, computation time is saved. The method converges rapidly if the initial approximation is close to the solution. A specific example, using nonlinear equations with two variables, shows the application of the method."
"In their recent short note,1 Miura et al. present a unique hybrid computer solution to certain optimal control problems. However, the authors give the impression that they are unaware of current research in this area represented by a voluminous amount of literature and numerous conferences devoted to this topic. The authors enumerate the problems and shortcominings of \"conventional\" techniques, yet do not reference recent contributions. The intent of this correspondence is to cite a few inconsistencies in the note and to chronologically alter their definition of \"conventional.\""
"Recently, Fischler and Tannenbaum2indicated a counter example to Theorem 2 of this author's short note.1Theorem 2 (as well as the other theorems in the note) is a statement of the sufficiency conditions only. This means that if the conditions given in Theorem 2 are satisfied, then it is always possible to find a minimal realization for five positive transitions. It does not say that if the conditions given in Theorem 2 are not fulfilled, it is not possible to obtain such a network. The counterexample is such a case. The author regrets the use of the phrase \"necessary and sufficient conditions\" in the abstract and elsewhere in the note.1This should be read as \"sufficient conditions only.\""
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Quite frequently, a subject of considerable academic interest will emerge with a flow of textbooks that range from very narrow to very broad in scope. Not quite so frequently, a well-organized and comprehensive textbook is written—Booth has written such a book"
"Innumerable papers by Russian authors using probabilistic models for physical systems are prefaced by a comment explaining that the results obtained must follow from dialectic materialism, and therefore the same results could in principle be derived deterministically ll as statistically, save for mathematical convenience. A similarly political motivation may unconsciously underlie many papers in the computer field which explain that ever more elaborate executive programs are motivated exclusively by a desire to increase hardware efficiency and improve system economy"
"The author has chosen a somewhat inappropriate title for this paper; the file records he discusses are not \"generalized,\" but rather tailored to predictable real world constraints, and the \"management information systems\" he considers form only a portion of the spectrum. Nevertheless, he presents an objective technique for file record design quite applicable in certain cases. Given 1) known and predictable data and basic interrelationships subject to 2) known and predictable use (processing/querying), then the design techniques presented by the author should certainly ease the designer's conscience, if nothing else, and will probably materially assist in \"tuning\" a record- oriented data management system. The analytic design techniques presented form one element in a suggested iterative design loop \"of data collection, preliminary file design, simulate (sic), analyze (sic) results, . . . .\" Additional consideraton of \"tuning\" a system might well lead to consideration of special instrumentation, special reduction for the data gathered by such instrumentation, adaptive systems which \"tune\" themselves for optimum performance, and other subjects. This article concentrates on the analytic design techniques, to the exclusion of the other aspects of the complex design cycle"
"This paper concerning two IBM programs was written by two IBMers for an IBM publication. This might given reason to question the objectivity of the paper and its value to the general community. In actuality, though, the two programs discussed are of sufficient general interest, if for no other reason than the popularity of the machines for which they have been implemented, and the authors have maintained sufficient perspective to warrant reading of the paper by all persons interested in continuous system stimulation"
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"A very simple and economical circuit is presented which functions as a bilateral variable-ratio direct voltage transformer.The circuit, which consists essentially of two thyristors, two diodes, and an inductance, is a modification of the familiar pulse converter. When used for the controlof dc machines, dynamic braking is accomplished automatically by feedback of power to the supply. Furthermore, the armature circuit of the machine may provide sufficient inductance for satisfactory operation. Factors which influence the efficiency and the selection of circuit parameters such as operating frequency, component ratings, and the magnitude of the circuit inductance are investigated. The problem of obtaining safe and economical commutation of the thyristors is to be dealt with in a subsequent paper. Test results from an experimental circuit are presented."
"This paper is the second of two dealing with the design and operation of a simple circuit consisting essentially of two thyristors, two diodes, and an inductance which functions as a variable-ratio dc transformer. The circuit provides an economical means of speed control for dc motors by replacing the prime mover and generator of a traditional Ward-Leonard set. This paper considers the behavior of the circuit during commutation under a range of circuit operating conditions and establishes the necessary criteria for the selection of the values of the commutating components which will give reliable and economical commutation."
"Circuits comprising saturable reactors driven into negative saturation offer very interestingpossibilities from both the theoretical and practical points of view."
"A nonreciprocal all-pass network employing a minimum number of reactive elements is presented. Since the basic network uses only gyrators and capacitors, the configuration is well suited to integrated circuit methods. The all-pass parameters can be changed electrically by adjusting the gyration conductances. An example of phase shift and time delay adjustment is presented."
"The basic principle of this integrating circuit is to allow the current integrator to integrate to a preset reference, reset the current integrator by discharging the integrating capacitor, and count each reset. Thus the total integration can be found by observing the total number of smaller integrations. Each of the smaller integrations represents the same incremental integration since the current integrator is only allowed to integrate to the preset reference. The step motor is used to count the smaller integrations and to move a recording arm in certain applications."
"A procedure is developed for determining optimum values of the LC commutating circuit components in the resonance commutated thyristor dc switch or chopper circuit. Based on an approximate analysis of the circuit by Gutzwiller et al. [1], a more accurate expression is obtained in parametric form and solved graphically. With this solution, values for the series inductor and commutating capacitor can be selected which minimize component size and cost for given values of thyristor turn-off time and peak load current. It is shown that for a given reverse-biasing time, the influence of the value of commutating capacitor on rate of rise of voltage across the thyristor is not pronounced."
"In modem processes the accurate positioning of damper drives and control valves is of prime importance. In order to fulfill these requirements this servo amplifier for the control of a dc motor was developed, resulting in a solid-state SCR output unit capable of being operated over a widerange of ambient and environmental conditions. In addition to high sensitivity and position accuracy,the amplifier can incorporate such features as high over-torque capabilities, torque limiting, speed control, and battery backup for power failure protection."
"Feedback regulators are well known for maintaining given parameters such as current, voltage, speed, torque, etc. Frequently the controlled variable is converted by a transducer to a direct voltage which is compared to a reference potential. This simple technique becomes difficult and/ or expensive in designing an alternating current regulator. The use of a magnetic amplifier to control the output results in a waveform of varying form factor. Thus, maintaining its average value does not result in a constant effective value."
"This paper describes a temperature control using SCR ON-OFF zero switching. The heart of the logic circuitry is a transformer wound on a square-loop core. It makes use of the basic constant-volt-second principle. The transformer performs the dual role of providing isolation from the sensor to the line and supplying isolated gate pulses to a pair of inverse parallel SCR's. It is designed to operate with a positive temperature coefficient resistance PTCR as the sensing element which results in a very narrow ON-OFF temperature band. A negative temperature coefficient resistance can be used by adding a few additional components."
"The transient performance of a polyphase induction motor is studied using an analog computer simulation of the dynamic equations. The study clearly demonstrates the frequency dependent nature of the induction motor stability. The problem is also investigated using root-locus techniques in order to show that a computer solution is required when accurate results are needed."
"A control system manufacturer reviews his applications of purchased solid-state power supplies (with emphasis on dc-to-ac inverters) and indicates areas that the customer and manufacturer of power supplies should stress in order to increase reliability. System reliability, in many cases, can be aided by clear specifications and an exploring engineering analysis of load characteristics and distribution. The analysis is critical and should consider advantages or disadvantages of loads being ac versus dc."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"The past years have seen a change of emphasis in process control languages. Most of the software for the early process automation systems developed at the General Electric Process Computer Department was implemented in assembly language. Today, FORTRAN is being used at least partially in many of our applications. Some of our experiences in this area are briefly reviewed and evaluated and an opinion is expressed on what direction future efforts might be expected to take."
"The coded condition mask implementation of decision tables was developed for a high-level process control language, SPL. The technique is explained by a simple example. It is then applied to translate extended entry tables. The advantages gained by the automatic translation of decision tables into coded condition masks are stressed."
"P250 FORTRAN IV, the process control language used by the Westinghouse Corporation's Hagan/Computer Systems Division, is described. This is a standard FORTRAN made more powerful with extensions, but various executive and object code modifications (as opposed to language modifications) have been made to enable this compiler language to be applicable for process control systems."
"The arguments for the necessity for the coexistence in the process control programming environment of both procedure-oriented languages like FORTRAN and problem-oriented languages like the Foxboro Company's LAM are presented. An example is given of how these different kinds of languages complement each other in use."
"CDC 1700 FORTRAN, the process control language for the Control Data 1700 computer, is described. This is USAS Basic FORTRAN with extensions including new statements and a reentrant library. These additional features and the characteristics of the object code are discussed."
"PROSPRO is a real-time on-line system for implementing automatic control of process units. It requires a knowledge of the industrial process and its control characteristics, but not of computer programming. Fill-in-the-blanks forms are provided for specifying generalized logic, calculation, and control procedures with the capacity for implementing not only normal control actions, but also special-exception operations and advanced control techniques. The generalized features permit reliable interprogram communications and automatic documentation."
"Real-Time Fortran IV, the process control language used by Honeywell's Computer Control Division, is described. This language consists of the standard USASI Fortran IV with syntactical extensions that allow process control problems to be stated entirely in compiler language. The description deals mostly with the extensions and the reasons for their inclusion. An example program is appended."
"MISSIL, a high-level computer language with out-standing data handling capabilities, is described and the use of MISSIL programs in the real-time environment of automatic control is discussed. The MISSIL language and programming system are described, and the interpretive and symbolic aspects of the language are explained. This general description is followed by a discussion of design criteria, language characteristics, and the ways in which MISSIL makes the work of the engineer-turned-programmer both easier and more effective. Finally, a discussion is presented of how MISSIL iS placed into the executive routines of the IBM 1800 process control computer, and several applications are given for which on-line MISSIL has been found highly useful."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"This document is a Report on the state-of-the-art of measuring field strength of radio-frequency electromagnetic waves, with respect to available and desireable accuracies, general principles of measurement techniques and calibration methods, and references to pertinent literature."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"This bibliography consists of 1930 references from over 332 joturnals and other publications, and represents contributions from over 1664 authors. The reader is reminded that the individual papers of this survey contain a large number of worthwhile references, many of wihich are not included in the bibliography because of issue date or for other reasons. The bibliography in its entirety is set up to provide multiple entry points into a subject area. The subject matter of this bibliography includes theoretical and experimental informiiation on underwater acoustics and related fields. A rather liberal policy has been followed in defining boundaries of the subject area to be included. Information specifically concerned with ocean waves and currents as well as ocean bottom topography, sedimentation, and layers has been included only to the extent that it is important to the acoustic propagation and transmiission lproblems in the oceani and as far as it crystallizes the geometry and physical nature of the acoustic boundaries of the oceans. Papers which present new or novel combinations of old mathematical methods useful in ocean acoustics have also been includle(d whenever it was foun(d desirable. Of particular importance in this survey is the bibliography pertaining to the detection, estimation, and i(lelntification of acoustic signals. This part of the bibliograplhy can largely be identified with what is known as \"time series analysis.\" In an effort to scrutinize the literature on timie series analysis as thoroughly as possible, it was also found niecessary to peruse the literature in statistics, probability, and stochastic processes. There is, consequently, a large number of references in statistics and probability theory in this survey."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"An analog tracking device has been constructed which continuously monitors the peak frequency and Q of the first (8 Hz) resonance mode of the earth-ionosphere cavity. The device employs a phaselock technique to keep a tracking filter tuned to the center frequency of the natural spectral peak. Data from the resonance mode tracker illustrate the response of the cavity resonance to ionospheric disturbances, and to the source-receiver geometry."
"A study of several closely related adaptive processors for array data has been completed. Processors were designed to converge approximately to a minimum-variance linear unbiased estimator of an unknown signal common to all elements of the array. Any spatial structure of the background noise is used by such a system to enhance the output signal-to-noise ratio. Possible areas of application include sonar, underwater communication, space communication, and seismology. The basic linear adaptive processor has variable coefficients adjusted by a rule similar to that for the minimization by the projection gradient method of a quadratic form which is subject to a linear constraint. Modifications of the basic adjustment procedure have been introduced to reduce system sensitivity to data anomalies, decrease computational requirements, and decrease memory requirements. Experimental evaluation of the adaptive array processors has been completed using data from an actual array of seismometers. Both transient recovery from initially poor processor coefficients and steady-state operation have been found quite satisfactory."
"It is the objective of much geophysical research to increase the resolution of signals recorded on a sluggish measuring device. The approach genreally followed is to use inverse digital filters. This treatment presents an iterative technique for obtaining \"stable inverse digital filters.\" A stable inverse filter is one whose impulse response decays to zero with increasing time. An optimum inverse filter R() is defined here as R()=1/H(), where H()0; R()=0, where H()=0. It is shown that one can converge to this solution by operating in the time domain using the method of successive substitution. This approach to inverse filtering is unique in that the inverse filter is obtained by an iterative technique, thereby eliminating the dependence on computer limitations, as indicated in some reported techniques. In addition, a method of handling the zero crossings of H() is posed. A smoothing technique to modify these filters for inverse filtering in the presence of noise is also presented."
"An extensive observatory for the measurement of long-period and ultra-long-period earth strains is being operated in a mine of the St. Joseph Lead Company at Flat River, Mo. The principal instruments in the observatory, three 100-foot quartz extensometers, provide electrical outputs proportional to earth strain. Each extensometer output consists of a number of components at various levels and frequencies-ultra-long-period secular strains, earth tides, earthquake waves and resulting free earth oscillations, microseisms, and high-frequency noise. The various signal components are to be recorded on instruments designed for their respective frequency bands. A system is designed to divide the signal into various frequency bands, filter out high-frequency noise, and provide compatibility between the signal components and their desired recorders in terms of power amplification and signal attenuation. The design is accomplished by use of active RC networks. A general description of the system is given in the form of specifications, block diagram, and required circuitry. There is also a discussion of some special problems associated with the hardware required. Finally, there is an evaluation of the system as to fulfillment of the stated objectives."
"Investigation of means for reducing the amount of signal-derived digital data to be stored or transmitted leads to two general lines of attack. One is to provide analog compression of the signal before digitizing. The second is to digitize the signal linearly, subsequently treating each digital number as composed of two parts, one of which identifies the number's exponent, the other representing the value to a limited set of significant digits. Discussion of the two lines of attack in terms of discrete integers shows the similarity of concepts and points up the fundamental reasoning basic to system design. One interesting result for logarithmic analog compression is that the logarithmic base should approach unity as the available recording integers increase in number."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"It is customary to time share or commutate the return data link from spacecraft. This means that the data transmission is periodically interrupted. Sampling of time series data under these conditions results in violation of the fast rate Nyquist limit with the consequent folding of the spectra density distribution function of the data unless the presample filter bandwidth is determined by the commutation frequency. In the time domain, the consequence can be to replicate components of the spectrum about various frequencies including zero. These conditions are applied to a hypothetical magnetometer experiment and it is shown that, depending upon the frequency content, the data can be intrinsically aliased at the commutation switching rate of the telemetry system and, further, second order aliased in the data reduction sampling procedure. The presence of the doubly aliased time series for each of the magnetic field components can lead to potentially serious errors depending upon the form of the spectral amplitude functions which, in turn, are unspecifiable if folded."
"After a study of contingent methods of measuring the local acceleration of gravity on the lunar surface, it was decided that state-of-the-art devices for absolute measurements of gravity on early manned missions to the moon were significantly lacking. Alternative methods of obtaining wide dynaniic-range, Earth-reference measurements were investigated. Initially, the most promising device appeared to be the single vibrating-string meter, which could be employed for traverse studies in lunar exploration. Two such meters were compared in a series of qualitative tests. The vibrating-string gravity meter constructed by Esso Production Research Company (EPRC) was found to be the more promising device of this type for extra-terrestrial applications. During the course of this study, the Bell Aerosystems gravimeter gained attention and was tested in the same manner as the other meters. Although results of testing the Bell system show that the range, stability, and operational characteristics are within the requirements of wide-range lunar gravimetry, further environmental testing of a modified unit is necessary. A prototype instrument for the first lunar base station and traverse gravity measurements is presently being constructed."
"In recent years the dependence between the propagation of elastic waves in anisotropic rocks and the preferred orientation of grains in the rocks has been under intensive study. The disadvantage of the conventional visual comparison of both quantities in graphical representation is the impossibility of quantitatively expressing the assumed similarity. In this respect, by using the cross-correlation approach, the authors have improved on this. According to the quite different character of both quantities, and to the special properties of the range of definition (sphere), a new method was needed for computing the cross-correlation function. This paper deals with experimental data processing and with determining the form of the cross-correlation function. The proposed method was successfully proven on a sample of marble. In the case investigated, the maximum value of the cross-correlation function corresponded to a mutual angular shift of the correlated quantities by approximately 15°."
"This paper describes a weather balloon tracking system designed to be both portable and quickly erectable. The purpose of this system is to enable upper air soundings to be made over the oceans from rented space on merchant vessels. The system is based upon the telemetry of existing long range navigational aids for determining relative balloon position and track. Details of instrumentation are given, along with results of flight tests performed in the latter part of 1966."
"This paper describes the design and operation of a new weather radar intensity contouring device. This device accepts raw video information and averages these data in range and azimuth to obtain improved estimates of the mean echo intensity. The averaged video signal is then level sensed and encoded to produce a radar display with seven categories of precipitation intensity."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Oceanographic instrumentation represents one of the most important problems shared by the ocean engineering and marine sciences communities. In comparison with other areas of technology-notably with the aerospace fields-the state-of-the-technology in oceanographic instrumentation is still relatively primitive. Continuation of this situation is intolerable as it produces unreliable data and is wasteful of time, ships, manpower, and money. This paper examines some of the current problems of oceanographic instrumentation as they affect both the collectors and users of data from the marine environment and as they are derived from present policies and procurement practices of the Government agencies which are the major buyers and users. Several recommendations are developed for new policies and action programs by the Federal Government to support the advancement of the state-of-the-technology and improvement in the quality of oceanographic instrumentation that will remove the present constraints to meaningful change in this area."
"Rapid advances in technologies useful to the Coast and Geodetic Survey (C&GS), larger responsibilities within the new organizational pattern of the Environmental Science Services Administration, and the anticipated growth of responsibilities in oceanography call for vigorous improvement of the technological systems of C&GS to meet future needs. A study performed in 1966 revealed many opportunities for C&GS systems improvement and recommended the establishment of this service. Priorities have been established among the many important requirements. These requirements have been matched against available resources. The result has been an active program that features automation of information handling, improved nautical charting data acquisition systems, and the development of the Coast Survey's Marine Observations System (COSMOS). This paper summarizes the planned developments in these three areas."
"Present methods of telemetering data from the oceans by low-frequency over-water paths are unreliable and require high-powered transmitters and large platforms. The Interrogation, Recording, and Locating System (IRLS) has been developed for satellite interrogating and locating land-based moving platforms via the UHF band. This paper describes the feasibility of utilizing the IRLS system for oceanographic purposes. Included in the paper are discussions of: 1) the effects of the ocean on antenna performance, and the selection of the \"best\" antenna among existing and new configurations for an ocean-based system, and 2) the communication link reliability and accuracy, and the overall performance of the IRLS system, utilizing a full-scale satellite simulation experiment."
"An analysis is made of the performance characteristics of a salinity/temperature/depth (STD) system manufactured by Bissett-Berman Corporation and used widely for oceanographic measurements. Particular attention is given to the influence of ambient vertical temperature gradient and rate of instrument descent on the registrations of salinity. An equation is derived for adjustment of indicated salinity values."
"The measurement of wave height and direction spectra is a classical problem; it has been attempted in a variety of ways with various degrees of success In this paper, the Oceanics Division (formerly National Marine Consultants) of Interstate Electronics Corporation extends these previous efforts, utilizing applicable background work to obtain the desired electronic wave height and direction system. The system basically provides the time history of amplitude and wave slope to allow the two-dimensional wave spectrum to be uniquely computed. For simplicity of thought, the surface of the sea is most easily considered as sinusoidal. However, the statistical and spectral mathematical tools used allow the more random and confused surface characteristics to be taken into account. Efficient processing, recording, reduction, and evaluation of the data thus provide the oceanographer with the desired spectral coefficients related to power density and directional spectra. Typical installations are discussed showing applications to pier or pole mounting as well as deep-moored buoy installations."
"A Doppler current meter was developed to provide an instrument for the measurement of water-flow velocity. This type of instrument detects the Doppler frequency shift which occurs in the acoustic signal received from reflections from moving microscopic particles in water which are excited by an acoustic beam of high-frequency energy. Mechanical inertias are minimal and there are no moving parts, so high accuracy is possible even under transient conditions. A test facility was designed to determine the instrument accuracy. Certain unusual phenomena were revealed."
"A 24-foot compliant-tube parabolic reflector, with a flextensional transducer at its focus, has yielded acoustic source levels up to 122 dBbaryd1 at 420 Hz in 85 feet of water off Fowey Rocks near Miami, Fla. The projector is part of a research program to study underwater sound propagation and related environmental parameters. Modulation signals of continuous wave pulses and pseudorandom sequences are transmitted by wire from the Institute of Marine Sciences Laboratory, Miami, to the transducer, a distance of 12 miles. Bottommounted hydrophones are employed at various distances, with the principal sensors on the island of Bimini, which lies 45 miles eastward across the Florida Straits. The reflector provides a main lobe of 28° at the half-power points; the back lobes are down more than 25 dB and the directivity index is 15 dB. The effective mechanical Q of the transducer-reflector combination is 4. At the present depth, the transducer is cavitation limited to an acoustic output of 4 kW."
"This bibliography consists of 974 references from over 247 journals and other publications, and represents contributions from over 1087 authors. The individual papers of this survey contain a large number of worthwhile references, many of which are not included in the bibliography because of issue date or for other reasons. The bibliography in its entirety is set up to provide multiple entry points into a subject area. Coverage of this bibliography is extensive but not exhaustive. It is international in scope, and spans the time period 1966-1967. The initial search was made in the 1) mathematical reviews, 2) applied mechanics reviews, and 3) geophysical reviews, as well as 4) the abstracts sections of the journals of the IEEE. In addition, indices and tables of contents of over 247 journals were scanned for further references. Only the open literature is covered, but this includes conference records, monographs, and books, as well as journal articles. The subject matter of this bibliography includes theoretical and experimental information on underwater acoustics and intimately related fields. A rather liberal policy has been followed in defining boundaries of the subject area to be included. Information specifically concerned with ocean waves and currents as well as ocean bottom topography, sedimentation, and layers has been included only to the extent that it is important to the acoustic propagation and transmission problems in the ocean and as far as it crystallizes the geometry and physical nature of the acoustic boundaries of the oceans. Papers which present new or novel combinations of old mathematical methods useful in ocean acoustics have also been included whenever it was found desirable. Soviet literature is the most heavily represented foreign literature in this survey."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"The First Annual International Geoscience Electronics Symposium, sponsored by the IEEE Geoscience Electronics Group, will be held at the Twin Bridges Marriott Hotel, Washington, D.C., USA on April 16-18, 1969. The purpose of this symposium is to provide scientists and engineers working in the geoscience area with an opportunity to review current applications efforts and remote sensing techniques that may have future application to the exploration and exploitation of land, sea, air, and space. The technical sessions will focus on techniques and equipments for measuring geophysical parameters. The symposium will be concerned with the acquisition of data for research, exploration, exploitation, and operation. Data acquisition systems include the following building blocks: sensors, storage devices, data processors, encoders and decoders, communication and telemetering equipments, data display and recording devices, power supplies, and platforms on which the equipment is located."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"This paper presents formulas for the interpretation of the results of tests utilizing the modulated subcarrier version of the sine-squared pulse when both gain and delay inequalities are present. Exact expressions as well as suitable approximations are given, along with graphs and a nomograph to facilitate use. The region of validity of these expressions is explicitly stated."
"There are 1173 AM radio stations in the United States using two or more towers. California leads the list with 101. Texas is next with 87, followed by Pennsylvania with 62, Florida with 61, and New York with 56. Rounding out the top ten are Michigan (52), Ohio (50), Illinois (45), North Carolina (34), and Indiana (33). As workable AM frequencies become more scarce, directional arrays are more complex and stability requirements more severe. A O.1 percent phase monitor, combined with the very best engineering practices in phasor design and tower and ground system installation, becomes an important part in an applicant's quest for a critical frequency. Since the early days of directionals, the sampling of tower currents has been accomplished through the use of loops placed on the tower, or with a tuned sampling transformer located at the base. Both systems have disadvantages, particularly when long-term stability is required. This paper will discuss a broadband untuned phase sampler-a current transformer-utilizing modern ferrites encapsulated in a simple tamper-proof assembly."
"The increased proportion of color TV broadcasting and the use of lead oxide camera tubes having linear transfer characteristics have called for increased attention to the use of proper gamma correction circuitry in the studio. Agreement on a limiting value of scene contrast ratio is helpful in order to achieve some degree of standardization in this area. A contrast ratio of 40 is suggested as a practical value."
"Side channel interference has been a problem in the standard (AM) broadcast band since the advent of radio broadcasting. The two major contributing factors are: 1) radiation of audio-frequency components greater than 5 kHz, and 2) receivers having poor selectivity characteristics. Other more or less controllable factors are overmodulation of the carrier and inherent distortion in the transmitter."
"Considerable study has been done in recent years by propagation analysts in regard to the effects of precipitation loss in the 10-13 GHz region. This paper assembles this work, relating it it to earlier propagation estimating rules. These rules are presented in conjunction with practical problems of planning radio link systems in the 13-GHz band, for specific performance objectives."
"Certain transmitter adjustments are customarily made by optimizing performance as measured at the output of a visual demodulator. For reasons discussed in the text, demodulators used at the transmitter must have different design characteristics than typical home receivers. As a consequence, picture quality on the station monitor may be somewhat different than that seen on the average home receiver. The differences are described in the paper. Even if the transmitter were adjusted with typical receiver performance in mind, it is shown that the best transmitter adjustment for one receiver would not be the best for receivers designed with different selectivities and/or different envelope delays."
"Three techniques using partial skew are developed in this paper. They do not lead to the same degree of smoothing of the patterns of circular arrays as the 90 °skew, but they present the advantage of being less sensitive to the presence of the supporting structure. They also provide a large flexibility in the choice of dimensions and feeding systems of such antennas."
"It is shown that the familiar 180-degree (or \"rat-race\") hybrid ring is a particular case of a more general device which may be realized with a line of any impedance, provided it is less than √2 times the impedance required at the four ports. Although the ratrace presents the widest possible band, more general cases may be usefully employed especially in the UHF region where the instantaneous bandwidth required is usually small (a few percent)."
"This page or pages intentionally left blank."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"This paper describes the Voice of America facilities at Greenville, North Carolina. This is the largest radio broadcasting station in the world. In addition to special receiving facilities for program feeds from overseas locations, monitoring, and communications, it has six 500-kW, six 250-kW, and six 50-kW shortwave broadcast transmitters, many high-gain curtain and other type antennas, and other associated equipment and installations."
"The usefulness of the high-frequency spectrum for international broadcasting is in serious jeopardy. A rapid increase in the number of transmitters operating in the broadcast bands between 3 and 30 MHz has resulted in a corresponding increase in co-and adjacent-channel interference levels. At present, a condition of extreme congestion exists, with many channels over-loaded by a factor of three during certain peak broadcast periods."
"The distribution of television programs over Europe and Africa via a geostationary satellite is considered on the basis of the satellite-earth liaison. The subjective quality of the image to be expected on the domestic TV receiver is expressed in terms of the ground antenna diameter for values of the satellite output power ranging from 10 to 100 watts, for different values of the RF bandwidth and several locations of the ground terminals in Europe, Africa, and the Middle East. The modulation technique used is the standard FM and the values considered for the carrier frequency are 4, 8, and 12 GHz. The effect of the dimensions of the ground receiving antenna on the subjective quality is given graphically for black-and-white and color television systems in both high and low field strengths relative to the local distribution station."
"A symmetrical, linear, four-wire system in a special hybrid configuration provides a simple method for combining the balanced output of two transmitters operating on the same frequency and feeding the combined output power to a common balanced load. Due to its simplicity of operation, economy of construction, power capability, and broad-band characteristics, this combiner provides significant advantages over the conventional lumped-constant combiners that are commonly used for combining high-power transmitters. It provides complete protection in the event of failure of either transmitter without affecting the input impedance or operation of the other; and, given a constant resistive load equal to Z4/2, it will take power at any frequency up to about 30 MHz. If symmetry is realized in practice, the two tuning adjustments may be mechanically coupled to reduce the operating controls to one. An analysis of the system demonstrates that the distributed voltages and currents for two 50-kW transmitters fall well within practical limits, and that with careful design, it is applicable for combining the outputs of transmitters as large as are presently being built. Such a combiner has been constructed for two high-frequency, 50-kW, broadcast transmitters at the Radio Free Europe transmitter plant near Biblis, Germany, and its performance characteristics confinn the theoretical expectations."
"The performance of high-power curtain antennas which have been designed for international broadcasting stations is presented along with details of design and construction. The antennas described provide horizontal beamwidths ranging from 190°to 28 °, vertical beamwidths from 4°to 12°, and power gains ranging from 18 to more than 23.5 dB above a half-wave dipole in free space."
"This paper discusses the present popularity of shortwave broadcasting; who listens, where, and in what numbers. Considering the competitive aspects of medium wave, FM, and television broadcasting, as well as the possibility of broadcasting satellites, the paper concludes that shortwave broadcasting is very much alive today, and that all signs point to a continued healthy development of this service for at least the next decade or two."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"This paper is primarily concerned with the stereophonic separation provided in a transmitted FM stereophonic signal. The equation derived, however, involves only parameters whose values are obtained from oscilloscopic displays of the composite stereophonic signal and is even more applicable to unmodulated composite stereophonic signals. There is a discussion of accuracy limitations imposed by methods and associated test equipment required for practical applications of the equation. It is pointed out that the so-called \"pilot phase\" [FCC Rules and Regulations 73.322(c)], should have a tolerance associated with it since it is one of the parameters involved in separation. A value of 500 nanoseconds is reasonable."
"The history of the creation of a new national TV network for the United Kingdom is given. From the start, the United States has been accustomed to free enterprise radio and television services (not forgetting the FCC). But in the United Kingdom and Europe, however, broadcasting was strictly state-controlled and no advertising was permitted. Then, in 1954, a British Conservative government, against severe opposition from the Left, introduced a new \"Television Act\" which permitted a Public Authority—the Independent Television Authority (ITA)—to provide a second television service for the whole of the country by granting a franchise to a number of separate, financially self-supporting program companies, each with their own technical facilities and staff. These companies were to supply programs that they and the ITA considered to be of national merit to various regions of the country and to broadcast such programs over a comprehensive lines network and a series of transmitting stations sited, built, and operated by the ITA itself. This was a unique combination of private initiative and public control. In contrast to a centralized organization such as the BBC, the ITA established its service as a federal system. The considerable influence of this policy on the way the new network should be engineered and the technical developments that followed are described. In particular, it is interesting to note the spectacular rate of increase in the number of viewers receiving the ITA programs as the new service was developed."
"There are many applications on which one would want to obtain an omnidirectional pattern by mounting many directional antennas around a large structure. If the structure is many wave-lengths in size and if the directional antennas are mounted pointing radially out, then the resulting pattern will usually present very rapid excursions in amplitude with very deep nulls. If one assumes that the directional antennas are of the type cosn ϕ(-π/2⩽ϕ⩽π/2 and zero elsewhere), which are closely approximated by many practical anteunas, then it is possible to smooth out considerably the resulting pattern by pointing the directional antennas tangentially to a circle circumscribing the structure and by properly choosing the radius of the circle. The number of antennas to be uesd determines the value of n."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"The Grade A and Grade B service contours of a television broadcast station are used for a host of administrative purposes by the FCC including the regulation of CATV systems. Additionally, the contours are used by most stations for promotional and marketing purposes. The numerical values associated with these contours represent levels of field strength; consequently, assumptions were made in their determination as to noise limitation, the antenna gain, and transmission-line loss of the receiving system. Also, consideration was given to the subjective nature of picture quality and the statistical variation of field strength with time and location. The nature of these variables is discussed and the assumed values are tabulated in a format suitable for easy understanding and for analysis of possible future changes."
"A loudness limiter which reduces disparity in loudness levels, when a program is controlled on a vu basis, has been developed by CBS Laboratories. The device evaluates the loudness level of the program by a \"loudness level summation\" method described previously by the authors, and automatically reduces the program level when a preset threshold is exceeded."
"This paper presents various factors associated with \"live\" telephone subscriber participation in radio programs. Specifically, it describes the factors related to connecting message network telephone lines into broadcast transmitters."
"Report on experience of WRGB, Schenectady, N. Y., in the design and operation of an automated television station providing automatic switching and automatic preparation of the daily operating logs, availability schedules, programming, sales, accounting, and financial analysis, and with provision for future control and programming by a remote computer."
"This index covers all technical items - papers, correspondence, reviews, etc. - that appeared in this periodical during the year, and items from previous years that were commented upon or corrected in this year. Departments and other items may also be covered if they have been judged to have archival value. The Author Index contains the primary entry for each item, listed under the first author's name. The primary entry includes the coauthors' names, the title of the paper or other item, and its location, specified by the publication abbreviation, year, month, and inclusive pagination. The Subject Index contains entries describing the item under all appropriate subject headings, plus the first author's name, the publication abbreviation, month, and year, and inclusive pages. Note that the item title is found only under the primary entry in the Author Index."
"This page or pages intentionally left blank."
"This page or pages intentionally left blank."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Presents the cover/table of contents for the proceedings."
"A design algorithm for adaptive control of systems described by nonlinear integral operator equations is considered. Kulikowski's original approach is extended to include bounded input functions. The limited range of performance criteria considered previously is similarly extended making use of the concepts of nonlinear functional analysis. The plant operator is assumed to be only partially known, and the optimization problem is formulated as a conditional-minimization problem. The solution is obtained in the form of an iteration and two such iteration techniques are described. The first one is based on the principle of contraction mapping; the second on Newton's modified method. The identification procedure is briefly mentioned and an analog implementation scheme is presented."
"A method of designing multivariable adaptive control systems using sensitivity methods is discussed. By means of a Lyapunov type of synthesis procedure, stability of adaptation is almost assured. Computational aspects of the sensitivity vectors that are employed in the adaptive control are also briefly examined."
"A system is described which employs an adaptive modeler to estimate the state and future trajectory of the unknown plant. Control is automatically synthesized to minimize a performance index involving this estimated future. The effects of perfect and imperfect modeling and of optimal and suboptimal control laws are considered. Experimental results are presented."
"In this paper, a learning controller model is applied to the on-line optimization of a general class of discrete stochastic control systems. Stochastic properties of the plant are unknown to the designer. Using the plant's output, the controller iteratively applys a reinforcement learning algorithm to learn the optimum control policy while minimizing an expected performance index. A technique that accelerates learning and improves performance is discussed. Computer simulation results of the successful application of the learning controller model to several different cases are presented."
"Pattern recognition techniques are being applied to the analysis of data gathered from a multiband optical-mechanical scanner mounted on an aerospace platform. The purpose of the system is to provide automated techniques for making surveys of earth resources such as agricultural crop status, forest inventories, bodies of water, etc. This paper describes techniques used in the research including aspects of categorizer design, feature selection algorithms, and other methods suitable for carrying out research in a high data volume environment."
"The use of performance measures for selecting features in pattern recognition systems is reviewed. An approximation to the information content measure is derived. The approximation reduces the computation required to calculate the measure. The accuracy of the approximation depends directly on the nature of the patterns and their features. Computational requirements for the approximate measure are specified."
"The use of the techniques developed for adaptive learning and pattern recognition have been applied to the social system discussed in, Intergroup Conflict and Cooperation - The Robbers' Cave Experiment by Sherif et al. This was an experiment in social psychology designed to trace over a period of time the formation and functioning of attitudes of one group toward another in an experimental situation. Two methods of simulation were attempted, the first a sequential learning system employing a matched filter machine; the second a parallel self-adaptive machine bearing the acronym GELISIMA GEeralized LInear-element SImulation MAchine. The simulation models of the second kind provided accurate replication of the social system suitable for hypothesis generation, variable manipulation and control, internal structure variations and other parameter manipulation."
"This paper surveys the developments in the field of pattern classification to describe the current state-of-the-art. The author divides the pattern classification problem into deterministic and statistical approaches although, in many instances, both converge to the same result. The approaches are further subdivided into: Adalines and Madalines, linear discriminant functions, mathematical programming, mode-seeking, nearest neighbor, Bayes and minimax, statistical criteria, and fuzzy sets subclasses. A major effort is devoted to show relationships among procedures. The conditions under which procedures are equivalent are discussed. Such relationships are summarized through a graph. The problems of supervision, adaptive property, sample size, and sequential analysis are discussed."
"A procedure for determining the modes of a continuous univariate probability density function (p.d.f.) is suggested. Inherent in this procedure is the use of a new nonparametric estimate of the p.d.f. An extension of this method to the multidimensional case is posed and some results of the procedure applied to real data problems are presented."
"A recursive Bayes optimal solution is found for the problem of sequential, multicategory pattern recognition, when unsupervised learning is required. An unknown parameter model is developed which, for the pattern classification problem, allows for (i) both constant and time-varying unknown parameters, (ii)partially unknown probability laws of the hypotheses and time-varying parameter sequences, (iii) dependence of the observations on past as well as present hypotheses and parameters, and most significantly, (iv) sequential dependencies in the observations arising from either (or both) dependency in the pattern or information source (context dependence) or in the observation medium (sequential measurement correlation), these dependencies being up to any finite Markov orders. For finite parameter spaces, the solution which is Bayes optimal (minimum risk) at each step is found and shown to be realizable in recursive form with fixed memory requirements. The asymptotic properties of the optimal solution are studied and conditions established for the solution (in addition to making best use of available data at each step) to converge in performance to operation with knowledge of the (unobservable constant unknown parameters."
"The empirical Bayes decision problem is considered. Let {ai}, i=1,..,N be a sequence of Markov dependent random variables, ai∈ {1,...,m} where ai denotes the category of the ith sample also called the state of nature. Let pl j be the elements of the transition matrix of the Markov process and consider that the initial probabilities are equal to the steady state probabilities of the Markov chain. Let xN = {x1,...,xN} be a sequence of random observations where xi has probability density function fa i(xi). Suppose that the receiver does not know which state of nature is acting after the reception of the sample xi and after N observations, it is desired to partition the received samples into m sets with minimum probability of misclassification with respect to the true partition induced by the states of nature. Such a problem may arise in recognition of written characters Ref. [4] and in receiving signals over a noisy channel with intersymbol interference Ref. [3]. In the present work it is assumed that the fj(xi) are unknown, it is only known that fj(xi) belong to a family F of pdf's with known functional form. It is assumed that the probability transition matrix of the Markov chain is unknown. It is shown that if the family F of pdf's satisfies certain identifiability and differentiality conditions, then by using moment estimates of the unknown quantities, a decision function t can be determined such that the corresponding risk converges to the optimal Bayes risk. The present work extends the results obtained in Ref. [4] by considering that the transition probabilities and the pdf's are unknown. The work of Ref. [3] is extended by showing file convergence of the risk corresponding to t to the optimal risk, without requiring that the signal to noise ratio converge to zero."
"A non-parametric feature selection technique is proposed. It is hoped that a finite number of classes is represented by some finite number of unknown probability structures which are distributed in a finite discrete measurement space. No assumptions of statistical independence between pattern measurements will be made. The proposed non-parametric feature selection criterion is based on the direct estimation of the minimal expected error rates for a given data set of training samples and is independent from the classification technique used. The properties of the proposed feature section are demonstrated using data from agricultural remote sensing."
"A general method is proposed to find non-linear transformations for discrete data in information processing problems. The main feature of the method is random perturbation of the data subject to constraints which ensure that in the transformed space the problem is in some sense simpler. The technique has been applied to pattern recognition by finding a nonlinear transformation of the feature space such that all classes become linearly separable."
"We consider the samples x(i) belonging to one of the two non-overlapping classes, ω1 and ω0, which possess a separating function f(x). The observed membership of pattern x(i) is represented by the variable z(i) which can assume only one of two values, ± 1, or z(i) = [sgn f(x(i))]η(i) where η(i) is the measurement noise and E(η) is known. Thus the membership of the training samples may be erroneous. Using only the available sample pairs {x(i),z(i)}, i=1,2,..., we will obtain either a separating function or an optimal approximation to the separating function f(x)."
"A sequential algorithm for designing piecewise linear classification functions without a priori knowledge of pattern class distributions is described. The algorithm combines, under control of a performance criterion, adaptive error correcting linear classifier design procedures and clustering techniques. An error rate criterion is used to constrain the classification function structure so as to minimize design calculations and to increase recognition throughput for many classification problems. Examples from the literature are used to evaluate this approach relative to other classification algorithms."
"Two new rapid adaption procedures are presented in this paper. The first one, Multi-Pattern Maximum Adaption Procedure, corrects all errors simultaneously, instead of one by one (Ref. 2-5), exactly to the unity of the worst dot product, X.W. The second one, Multi-Pattern Random Adaption Procedure, simultaneously adapts every pattern with undesired output to the unity of any one of the wrong dot products. Both procedures converge to a solution weight much faster than the increment, relaxation and modified relaxation adaption procedures. The results of some illustrative examples solved by computer simulation are tabulated for comparison."
"Workers in pattern recognition will have to cope, initially, with great complexity to solve most real world pattern-recognition problems. In this paper we seek to describe how we feel the interactive graphic computer can be used to aid the worker in pattern recognition. Our goal in examining interactive graphics is, in addition to doing the old things better, to use the new medium to do things differently."
"The Signature Analysis Research Facility (SARF), based on the utilization of interactive computer graphics, provides pattern recognition and general signature analysis capabilities. SARF is operational at AC Electronics - Defense Research Laboratories (AC-DRL) in Goleta, California."
"In considering applications of satellite sensors to exploitation of earth resources, it becomes apparent that imagery from a variety of sensors will be required to accommodate the various disciplines and the environmental constraints. To attempt crop surveys, for example, it appears that both the visual and the infrared spectrum will be utilized. This may be augmented by radar information to assist in defining water boundaries, regions, land with high water content, or to permit penetration over areas of continuous or seasonal cloud cover. One immediately becomes concerned by the lack of commonality in the data acquired by these sensors. The infrared imagery may be obtained by utilizing an optical line scanner with 20-30 channels covering the 0.3µ to 30µ band. The photographic imagery might be obtained by a panchromatic camera with 20-50 lines/mm resolution. The radar data could be provided by a side looking radar with several hundred foot resolution. The registration and resolution compatibility problems appear insurmountable, if one wishes to simultaneously utilize all the imagery to achieve the data classification. However, examining this in the light of information extraction as opposed to data processing one sees an immediate reconciliation. A specific sensor can be used as a primary sensor in establishing an initial categorization. Upon command the other sensory data can then be interrogated to provide supporting or verifying information."
"Stochastic approximation schemes are applied to the identification of linear distributed parameter systems. The dependent function is assumed piecewise continuous and is approximated by a finite number of functions chosen from a \"complete\" system of orthonormal functions. It is also assumed that noisy measurements of the function are available at random points in space and time. Therefore, the identification is performed off-line. The constant parameters multiplying the approximating functions are obtained sequentially by stochastic approximation algorithms that minimize a mean-square error performance criterion."
"A Kiefer-Wolfowitz procedure for identifying a Finite Memory, Time Discrete, Linear System is developed. The procedure is shown to reduce to a Robbins-Monro method. Two algorithms are presented to sequentially identify the linear system. The first one is derived directly from the Kiefer-Wolfowitz procedure and is shown to develop a bias which depends on the input measurement error noise variance. The second algorithm is a modification of the first assuming that the input noise variance is known exactly. For this algorithm the system can be identified correctly in the limit as time increases indefinitely."
"There has been renewed interest recently in the application of multivariate linear regression analysis to the problem of identifying a dynamic process fram normal operating data. The present paper mentions some of the inherent limitations of the linear regression approach and discusses alternative, but related recursive parameter estimation procedures which overcome some of these limitations."
"In many applications it is desirable to approximate an unknown probability distribution by a finite expansion in terms of known functions. In this paper, a double stochastic approximation algorithm is presented which recursively computes the optimal coefficients to minimize the mean square error in the approximation. The only required data are independent samples from the unknown probability distribution function. The procedure is derived in a straightforward manner and is computationally very simple in comparison to the results of others. A simulation was performed and the results are presented for both one sample run and for an average over several runs. The convergence rate appears to be comparable with that obtained by more complicated procedures that were previously proposed."
"An adaptive approach is presented for optimal estimation of a sampled stochastic process with finite-state unknown parameters. It is shown that for processes with an implicit generalized Markov property that the optimal (conditional mean) state estimates can be formed from (i) a set of optimal estimates based on known parameters, and (ii) a set of \"learning\" statistics which are recursively updated. The formulation thus provides a separation technique which simplifies the optimal solution of this class of nonlinear estimation problems. Examples of the separation technique are given for prediction of a non-Gaussian Markov process with unknown parameters and for filtering the state of a Gauss-Markov process with unknown parameters. General results are given on the convergence of optimal estimation systems operating in the presence of unknown parameters. Conditions are given under which a Bayes optimal (conditional mean) adaptive estimation system will converge in performance to an optimal system which is \"told\" the value of unknown parameters."
"Some classes of sampled-data signals can be divided into epochs of equal duration. Each epoch or segment can be represented by a small discrete set of values on an orthogonalized basis. This paper investigates an iterative method for finding a suitable orthogonalized basis by using the digital computer for the case in which a complete description of the sampled-data signal is available. The signal is divided into equal segments. For each segment the iterative method defines at each iteration a \"trial basis\" which then provides an approximate discrete representation for the epoch in the succeeding iterations. A suitable basis can thus be generated for the entire signal by starting with an initial trial basis which may provide only a poor representation. The process is terminated when no further improvement is obtained. An example is presented to demonstrate various features of the method."
"Arguments are presented in support of the hypothesis that the brain accepts information by forming an ignitible threshold device for every new \"thing\" it absorbs. The scheme itself is outlined, then its supporting arguments, physiological, psychological, and information theoretic, are presented."
"W. Ross Ashby's Homeostat represents one of the oldest and simplest theories of self-organizing systems. Originally proposed as a model of the human nervous system, the Homeostat has seen limited application, due mainly to the extremely long times required to achieve adaptation. Recent work however, which is summarized here, has corrected a number of deficiencies of the Homeostat. The purpose of this paper is to try to renew interest in applications of Ashby's work."
"A class of learning stochastic automata can be defined by the sextuple {S, F, Φ, g, π→, T} where S is the input set, F is the finite set of r outputs (or strategies) of the automaton, Φ is the finite set of r states, g is the output function which is a one-to-one mapping between the states and the outputs, π→ is the state probability vector whose ith component is the probability of the ith state being chosen. T is the reinforcement operator which guides the automaton in its learning by specifying the manner in which π→ is to be changed in response to the environment. The environment is specified by the penalty structure; namely, its response in the form of penalties to the outputs of the automaton. The reinforcement scheme enables the automaton to choose its outputs in such a manner as to reduce the mean penalty. This paper considers the collective behavior of the above finite state stochastic automata. This is of interest in view of the possibility of modelling group behavior of subjects in terms of these automata. The natural language for considering the collective behavior is that of game theory. After a brief introduction to a class of deterministic automata, the stochastic automaton is formulated and a nonlinear reinforcement specified. The finite state stochastic automaton is first considered in a game with nature, and conditions under which the automaton's winnings reach the von Neumann value of the game are established. Next, two stochastic automata with arbitrary number of states for each are considered in a game, the game matrix being specified. Performance of the automata for various conditions on the elements of the game matrix is considered. In a comparison of performance with deterministic automata, it is established that for performance comparable to that of the finite state stochastic automaton, the deterministic automaton needs an infinite number of states. Finally some games are simulated on a computer which verifies the general analysis and further throws light on the details of the game."
"Several adaptive random search techniques for the solution of optimization problems involving noisy multimodal hills have been proposed in the literature. In this paper, the convergence properties of several of these methods are compared experimentally using digital simulations. In these methods, the performance index is evaluated at each iteration of the search. The rate at which the performance index, evaluated at the sample points, decreases as a function of the number of iterations is used as an estimate of the convergence rate of each method. The comparisons are based on average results obtained using several simulation runs. These runs start at random points. Therefore, the effects of the starting point tend to be averaged out."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"The Power Group is an organization of IEEE members whose principal interest is in the advancement of the science and practice of electric power generation, transmissibn, distribution, and utilization. All members of the IEEE are eligible for membership in the Group and will receive this TRANSACTIONS upon payment of the annual Group membership fee of $6.00. For information on joining, write to the IEEE at the address given."
"The proposed publication schedule for the February, March, April, and May issues of the IEEE Transactions on Power Apparatus and Systems is listed below. The schedule is tentative and subject to revision."
"With the increasing use of extra high-voltage transmission in power system expansion, the manufacturers of power apparatus and the electric utilities are studying the nature of overvoltages in power systems due to lightning and, in particular, switching operations. For such analyses, knowledge of the natural frequencies of the windings of transformers under a wide variety of conditions is important. The work reported by the author in a previous paper is extended and equivalent circuits have been developed to represent several sets of terminal conditions. These equivalent circuits can be used to determine the natural frequencies and transient voltages in the windings. Comparison of the measured and the computed results obtained with a model transformer indicates that they are in good agreement. Hence, this method of analysis provides a satisfactory procedure for the estimation of natural frequencies and transient voltages in transformer windings."
"This paper presents the results based on detailed accumulation of lightning performance data on 140- and 250-kV lines in the Tokyo area. Data are arranged for the yearly variation of outage and the distribution of flashovers. The former changes through a rather wide range; the latter indicates the concentration of outage. The result of the investigation signifies that expression by means of an average not always indicates the real performance."
"This study is the continuation of research concerning electromagnetic and electrostatic unbalances of untransposed overhead lines.[1]-[6] The purpose of this investigation is to apply symmetrical component analysis to evaluate approximate expressions for ground displacement and negative sequence electrostatic unbalance factors of single circuit lines."
"High-voltage direct-current (HV dc) transmission is proposed by the Bonneville Power Administration (BPA) to transmit power from Oregon to southern California, via a balanced line. Balanced transmission lines pose little or no corrosion problems to buried lead telephone cables. However, because of the use of ground return under fault conditions or scheduled line repairs, the corrosion aspects of continuous ground return operation have been considered."
"The general problem of minimizing the operating cost of a power system by proper selection of the active and reactive productions is formulated as a nonlinear programming problem in accordance with previous work by Carpentier of Electricitéde France. This general problem is particularized to the minimization of transmission line losses by suitable selection of the reactive productions and transformer tap settings. An efficient computational procedure based on the Newton-Raphson method for solving the power-flow equations and on the dual (Lagrangian) variables of the Kuhn and Tucker theorem is discussed. This minimization procedure has been applied successfully to a 500-node system studied by the Bonneville Power Administration for which an effective power-flow program had been developed previously. The dual variables associated with the primary (electrical) variables are obtained in the course of the computation, and their engineering significance for power system design and tariffication is emphasized. The procedure has been extended to the general case of combined active and reactive optimization."
"In large metropolitan systems, the magnitude of reactive power can become so great that controlling it and system voltage demands more than the ordinary requirements in equipment and operating techniques. On the Consolidated Edison system, one of the major problems concerns an excess of charging Mvars from high-voltage cables during light load periods. At the outset this would seem to indicate that, with such excesses of capacitive Mvars, few capacitors would be required in the distribution area of the system. This unfortunately is not the case, since it is desirable and economical to have the reactive power for distribution located as near the load as possible, to maintain the megawatt capability of distribution stations and equipment at their maximum values. Additional capacitance is therefore required in the form of switchable capacitor banks at strategic locations, even though there may be an excess of charging Mvars on the high-voltage systems at the same time. Also, voltage control is usually held within relatively narrow limits in metropolitan areas and this aggravates the overall problem. On the system discussed here, a very large change has come about in the last two years with installation of approximately 65 miles of 345-kV cable. These situations and ways of handling them are discussed."
"The conventional mesh and nodal methods, their theories, and their algorithms are examined from an entirely new direction. This new direction, or viewpoint, assumes both methods to be special cases of the orthogonal network theories and methods. A deeper and broader understanding of the conventional methods and the topological tools that they employ are thereby obtained."
"The design, the implementation of, and the operating experience with a large-scale digital computer system used for optimum scheduling and on-line control of a complex hydro-thermal electric utility system is discussed. Dispatch techniques are outlined which produce optimal scheduling of steam, stored hydro, pumped hydro, and run-of-river hydro generation and economy interchange over a 32-hour period with full consideration given to unit selection and pumped hydro storage incremental cost-worth evaluation. Dispatch policy that results in the minimum practical dollars system power source cost within the framework of physical limitations and operational constraints is discussed. Operational features, including dispatcher-computer communication, scheduling program to on-line control program data interface, digital computer-analog load-frequency control interface, alarm-logging-monitoring programs, and off-line study mode programs are discussed."
"A digital simulation technique suitable for detailed analysis of both large and small disturbances on extensive power systems is presented. The analysis employs a hybrid reference frame for statement of the problem and for its solution. The equations of the interconnecting network are expressed with regard to a synchronously rotating common reference frame and are treated with the aid of matrix methods. Synchronous machine equations and equations of the voltage regulator and of the speed governor are solved in Park's reference frame fixed to the field of each individual machine. Provision is made for representing different machines in different degrees of detail. An efficient numerical technique for solution of the resulting complex nonlinear equations describing the behavior of the complete power system is introduced."
"The coefficient matrix for the set of first-order differential equations that describe a dynamic system is formed from the block diagram or equations that describe the system. The method for accomplishing this is described in terms of matrix equations. Then the derivative of this coefficient matrix with respect to one of the system parameters is found in terms of the matrices used to form it. The coefficient matrix and its derivative can be used to find the eigenvalues of the system and the sensitivities of the eigenvalues to the system's parameters."
"Methods for transmission and distribution system reliability analysis currently being developed and used require that the expected values of component outage rates and outage durations be known. The paper describes how the required component parameters can be estimated from field data. Also described are methods of placing confidence limits on the parameters estimated. The methods presented were developed through a study of six years of field records provided by a utility company. Sample expected outage rates and outage durations for various components such as transmission lines, substation transformers, and circuit breakers are presented. Also presented are data which tend to confirm the distributional assumptions made in system reliability analysis methods."
"THE FIRST pipe-type cable in the Western Hemisphere was a 2000-foot long experimental installation at the Plymouth Meeting Substation of the Philadelphia Electric Company in 1932. The first commercial installation was energized in 1935 in Baltimore, Md., as a part of the electrification program of the Pennsylvania Railroad. There were a few lines installed during the Depression and War years. Since World War II the number of installations has increased rapidly."
"The design and installation of six air-cooled heat exchangers to increase the capacity of existing double circuit pipe-type cable lines was completed on an emergency basis in ten months. Design increase in capacity ranges from 26 to 43 percent above the self-cooled rating. A method was developed for making connections to the cable pipe using liquid nitrogen to freeze the cable oil, a technique of cutting and prying to make a window in the pipe without danger of damaging the cable, and a special diffusion chamber that allowed the cable to be thermally insulated during welding. Coordination with the existing pressure maintenance plants was accomplished with the least trouble by maintaining pressure only on the line which is on the suction side of the nearest heat exchanger circulating pump. Transfer trip and sequential starting schemes were developed to minimize trouble on lines with more than one heat exchanger."
"Proposed cable cooling methods to increase the heat dissipation and rating of underground EHV cables are described. The factors governing the design of water cooled cable systems, obtained from an electrical analog, are presented and discussed together with both steady-state and transient operating conditions. Special cooling methods for cable joints are investigated and modifications to construction suggested. The use of special types of cable with enhanced heat transfer properties is considered."
"Specific proposals for revision of dielectric tests for EHV power transformers are made. An objective is improved operating reliability by specifying tests which are more compatible with service requirements. Impulse and switching surge tests are coordinated independently with lightning arrester characteristics. Low-frequency tests are disassociated from transient voltage requirements and are related to operating voltage only. Low-frequency test voltages are reduced and their duration is increased; absence of corona during the test is required. Suggestions for further development work are made."
"The impulse, switching surge, and 60-cycle breakdown characteristics of a pipe gap with an effective length of 18 feet and 36-inch spacing have been determined and the predischarge current for impulse surges measured. Superior protective characteristics of pipe gaps as compared with rod gaps for protecting 230 kV transformers against steep lightning surges are demonstrated. A pipe gap, developed for Ontario Hydro-Electric 230-kV stations, to be used in conjunction with the conventional rod gap, is described."
"Methods to determine the protection assured by a lightning arrester with reference to switching surge stress are discussed from a statistical point of view. Two methods are examined: the first considers the lightning arrester as a means to reduce the cumulative frequency of surge distribution, the second considers the arrester as a means to reduce the discharge probability of the insulation to be protected as a function of the prospective value of the applied surge."
"A system of power line carrier communication, utilizing insulated bundle subconductors and having an attenuation of about 0.1 dB/mi at 100 kHz, is described. Merits and disadvantages of this unconventional method are discussed. Push-pull coupling to the subconductors of one bundle is shown to exhibit an inherent property of high rejection of substation noise, a feature of particular interest for dc transmission lines. Simplified modal analysis is developed leading to a practical solution of coupling and transmission problems on 2-, 3-, and 4-subconductor bundles."
"A test method is described for the measurement of the probability of error due to noise in transfer-trip (TT) relaying using power line carrier. Noise levels recorded on 230-kV carrier installations are given to permit the interpretation of the measured error probabilities in terms of reliability and security. Three possible applications of the method are demonstrated: 1) finding the required biasing for frequency-shift-keying receivers, 2) preservice checking of transfer-trip channels, and 3) comparison of different transfer-trip systems."
"The results of an extensive field investigation of the use of a single insulated overhead ground wire for protective carrier relaying are summarized and discussed. Transfer-trip relaying channels using either a single, continuous insulated ground wire or short insulated sections at each end of the line as carrier couplers are shown to be practicable. Balanced-pair operation of two insulated ground wires was not studied in field, however, the reliability for transferred-trip line protection is inferred to be poor."
"A phase-angle measuring device is described which has a response time of one cycle of the signals whose phase angles are being measured. It has an adjustable full scale range which allows high-accuracy readings of small phase angle changes. An output is provided for continuous, fast response recording of phase angle changes suitable for use on an oscillograph. Some test results using the device are shown."
"A device to provide a signal proportional to changes in generator speed has been developed by Ontario Hydro. Field tests have been performed to demonstrate that use of this signal with a high-speed rectifier excitation system results in dynamic stability limits which approximate those which can be obtained with a zero reactance generator. Transient stability limits are greater than those obtainable with high-response conventional excitation systems. Results from the field tests and a computer study are compared."
"Water power sources in Finland which produce more than half the electrical energy are situated far from the consumption areas, thus necessitating the construction of a long-distance transmission system. Thermal power, which is rapidly gaining in importance and creates new versatility, does not change these conditions. As the economics of transmission system construction depends largely on the cost of lines, special attention was given to line design research and to system operation. This resulted, at an early stage, in adaptation of the guyed towers, characterized by low weight and cost, the design of which, in 110-, 220-, and 400-kV lines, is continuously developed. Switching stations have been simplified, shunt reactors and series capacitors installed, and remote control of voltage at power stations adopted. The economy of generation and transmission is increased by programmed regulation of water storage. Operation experiences are good and statistics display a low number of disturbances."
"The application of a real-time process-control digital computer to the control and operating requirements of a hydroelectric generating system is described. Discussed are control problems resulting from the utility's role as an exporter of power and operating a plant which is five plants from the standpoint of power sales arrangements."
"A method of analyzing the constant-speed performance of a symmetrical induction machine with applied stator phase voltages of any periodic form is presented. Symmetrical components are not used in this analysis. Instead, it is shown that by employing a series of reference frames, dc circuit theory may be used to determine the performance of induction machines. Since phasor and complex impedance concepts are not incorporated, the theory of multiple reference frames permits a convenient and simple method of analyzing steady-state modes of unbalanced or nonsinusoidal operation which have heretofore been limited to analysis by the method of symmetrical components. Also, this method establishes a rigorous approach to the analysis of constant-speed electrical transients of induction machinery."
"A stability study of a synchronous machine is performed by applying the Nyquist stability-criterion to the equations which describe the behavior of the machine during small displacements about a steady-state operating point. This investigation reveals that, in some cases, machine instability can occur at low operating speeds. Regions of machine stability are established from the results of a digital computer study and the maximum resonance peak Mm is used as a criterion for determining relative stability when the response of the electromechanical system is damped. The effect on machine stability for changes in different system parameters is given. Also, the maximum resonance peak is used to establish an equivalent second-order electromechanical system. The response of this system is found to compare favorably to that of an idealized synchronous machine at any operating speed."
"A new inverter type suitable for variable voltage ratio dc-ac power conversion is introduced. It was developed particularly for the control of speed and torque of wound rotor induction machines. The inverter \"short-circuit\" and \"inversion\" modes are described and examples of some means for switching from one mode to the other and for their time ratio control are shown. The behavior of the induction machine-rectifier-through-pass inverter cascade is analyzed and a simplified block diagram is deduced. Experimental results confirming the theory are given. The problems associated with the application of thyristors to the scheme for the slip power recovery are pointed out."
"The load on the induction motors is to be reduced under unbalanced voltage conditions so as to limit the temperature rise to the normal value. The rerating factors are determined experimentally and compared with four methods of prediction. The first two methods are drawn from previously published work and have failed to correlate the experimental and predicted values. An attempt to incorporate the effect of winding details and heat conduction is made in the third and fourth methods, respectively. Based on the third method, generalized curves are presented which can be applied to any motor having short-chorded windings. This method has its own limitations. The fourth method is a new approach, the results of which agree very closely with the experimental data on two types of motors tested."
"The effective resistance and inductance of electric machine armature conductors differ considerably from their direct current values. Their determination is of interest especially in connection with machines operated from nonsinusoidal power sources and large induction machines. This paper describes a new and very general method of finding the normal modes of current flow in a conductor of arbitrary cross section placed in an arbitrarily shaped slot. The method is based on finding Green's functions for the slot region, including the air gap, by a numerical technique, and subsequent solution of the resulting integral equation to find the normal modes. The modal solution may then be used to find any desired steady-state or transient performance characteristics or field distributions in the conductor and slot with ease. A computer program employing this technique is described. Steady-state characteristics of a few particular conductors are shown to illustrate the method. It is found, among other things, that the presence of insulation in the slot can have a marked influence on the effective resistance and inductance of the conductor."
"The paper considers the voltage-current relations of a 2-phase machine to be defined by the generalized impedance matrix. A modulation transfer function is derived which allows closed loop system performance to be predicted. An ac model suitable for use in ac servo simulations is presented, and a modified design criterion is propounded for obtaining best transient performance. A comparison of the appropriate transfer functions is made using the stalled torque as a criterion when"
"The dc voltage sparkover characteristics for a pair of sphere gaps, rod-rod gaps, rod-plane gaps, and insulator strings are described. The dc voltage was generated by a rectifier with rated voltage of 1200 kV and rated continuous current of 0.1 amperes (0.2 amperes for five minutes). The dc sparkover voltage of suspension insulator string whose surface was covered with snow was also obtained. Tests were conducted at the Shiobara outdoor laboratory."
"During the past two years, 4615 Pathfinder devices were installed on approximately 433 miles of HV and EHV transmission lines suitably divided into sample classes for significant data yield."
"Descriptions are given of measurements of switching surge generated by air blast breaker switching of charging current on no-load transmission line of the 187-kV effectively grounded system, with one-step insulation reduction, belonging to the Shikoku Electric Power Company, Japan. Measurements have been made on phase-to-ground surge overvoltages and phase-to-phase overvoltages at the sending end and receiving end, corresponding to various breaker operations, including high-speed reclosing. To examine the effect of system configuration upon switching surge, tests have been made on two system configurations. Maximum values of switching surge overvoltages which are likely to occur in the test system have been calculated by means of computer, and, making due reference to the measured results, insulation coordination has been examined."
"Tests were made at an altitude of 10 540 feet (3220 meters) using 10, 16, and 21 53/4 by 10 inch (14.6 by 25.4 cm) insulators. A 3600-kV impulse generator was used to provide 2 by 45 and 260 by 3600 μs test waves. Tests were made with the crossarms bonded and unbonded. Under the worst conditions of bonded crossarms and positive switching surges, it was determined that 14 insulators would be adequate for 230-kV operation at this altitude. The data also provide guides for high-altitude designs at still higher voltages."
"The criteria which provide a basis for a rational study of transient phenomena arising from switching operations are illustrated in statistical terms: in particular, the possible ways in which reduction of switching surges can be examined assuming suitable hypotheses are shown."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"This page or pages intentionally left blank."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"The Power Group is an organization of IEEE members whose principal interest is in the advancement of the science and practice of electric power generation, transmissibn, distribution, and utilization. All members of the IEEE are eligible for membership in the Group and will receive this TRANSACTIONS upon payment of the annual Group membership fee of $6.00. For information on joining, write to the IEEE at the address given."
"Tests were conducted on pantograph type disconnect switches to determine their dielectric characteristics. The data includes switching surge, impulse, and power frequency tests on insulations of 1300-, 1550-, and 1925-kV BIL, and open gaps of 130, 160, 180, and 200 inches. A comparison between the pantograph gap characteristics and various other vertical gaps, as well as vertical break switch gaps, is made. The effects of water resistivity on wet switching surge characteristics of the switch insulators was investigated for a 1550-kV BIL stack. The data is useful as a guide to the application of pantograph switches for EHV."
"In testing load circuit interrupting devices for electric power systems, it is necessary to determine the power factor of the test circuit. There has previously been some difficulty in making this measurement. This problem is discussed, and a circuit is described which has been used to measure conveniently the phase angle between the source voltage and the load current."
"Two generating stations on the same river were extended to accommodate the additional generation made available by their conversion from base load to peaking operation. The electrical features of Ontario Hydro's first experiences with such extensions are reviewed."
"Artificial commutation with series capacitors, to extend the operation of mercury tube or solid-state converters beyond the normally attainable control angles, is analyzed in detail, and performance assessed for application to HVDC transmission. Operating characteristics are presented, including details of tube voltage stress and attainable range of control for particular capacitor values and system quantities. The repercussions of arc-back and commutation failure are discussed, and control requirements outlined."
"The electrical strength of technically clean insulating oil in a direct voltage field is lower when the high-voltage electrode is sharper and of positive polarity. In a uniform field, with distances up to 100 mm, approximately 30 percent lower withstand values are obtained with direct voltages than with alternating voltages (rms values); this is also valid when the oil is heated up to transformer operating temperature. For longer applications of the test voltage (up to 30 minutes) a reduction in the electrical strength of approximately 15 percent, compared with 1 minute values, is to be expected. With direct voltages having a superimposed alternating component, the same results apply if the peak value of the combined voltage is used."
"Nineteen commercial tapes used for covering insulation in terminations were tested for tracking resistance. Accelerated test results are given for dust-and-fog, endurance wheel, and dip-track tests. While all tests rated classes of materials in the same order, correlation of ratings of individual tapes proved difficult. Vinyls readily tracked, polyethylenes and butyls were more resistant, and silicone rubbers showed least tendency to track."
"The flux densities under load are established in the cross section of salient pole alternators of low pole numbers. The two-dimensional partial differential equations describing the magnetic vector potentials are first transformed in partial difference equations and a new algorithm is given. A combination of rectangular and polar grids is used to follow the contours of the alternator. The reluctivity of the material is assumed to be the function of the magnetic induction. An iteration procedure consisting of relaxation of the vector potentials using a new form of blockrelaxation and underrelaxation of reluctivities is described. A computer program in FORTRAN language is given and applied to find the airgap radial inductions for a 2750-kVA, 2300-volt, 60-Hz, three-phase, eight-pole alternator."
"Calculations of the temperatures that appear at the faces of sliding contacts and brushes require certain assumptions concerning the mechanism of conduction and the size, shape, and number of contact spots. Previous calculations have been made based on certain arbitrary numbers for these factors. In this paper, a wide range of values for these factors has been investigated using computer techniques, and a correlation between the shape, size, and number of these contact points can now be made based upon the physics of oxidation and film breakdown that take place during conduction and sliding."
"A single-phase induction motor with one winding develops starting torque if the stator iron is not symmetrical about the winding axis. Four methods of producing the dissymmetry are described. The most significant design variables are rotor resistance, the location of the dissymmetry, and the difference of the magnetizing reactances perpendicular to and along the dissymmetry. Test and calculated data are shown. The motor can be used where low starting torque is required and, under certain conditions, it is superior to other motors."
"A practical method is given for solving the power flow problem with control variables such as real and reactive power and transformer ratios automatically adjusted to minimize instantaneous costs or losses. The solution is feasible with respect to constraints on control variables and dependent variables such as load voltages, reactive sources, and tie line power angles. The method is based on power flow solution by Newton's method, a gradient adjustment algorithm for obtaining the minimum and penalty functions to account for dependent constraints. A test program solves problems of 500 nodes. Only a small extension of the power flow program is required to implement the method."
"This paper presents a method for solution of the load flow problem which involves tearing a power system into pieces. This permits use of the impedance matrix method on larger systems than was previously feasible. A detailed tearing algorithm is given. Its validity is examined by presentation of test results for a small sample system. The new method retains the same features and convergence characteristics as the original impedance matrix method [1]."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"The Power Group is an organization of IEEE members whose principal interest is in the advancement of the science and practice of electric power generation, transmissibn, distribution, and utilization. All members of the IEEE are eligible for membership in the Group and will receive this TRANSACTIONS upon payment of the annual Group membership fee of $6.00. For information on joining, write to the IEEE at the address given."
"Provides a listing of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Fault detection during chopped-wave impulse tests on transformers requires that the time to chop be constant at various levels of applied voltage. Apparatus devised for this purpose is described. Time to chop in the 1-to 6-μs range can be selected and reproduced with a precision better than 0.1 μs at voltage levels up to 400 kV. This system has been successfully used for over five years in the impulse testing of transformers rated at 66 kV and under."
"Tests to show the attenuation of voltage and charge phenomena between corona sources located in power transformer windings and the terminals of the transformer are described. The attenuation of corona, or simulated corona, in both major and minor insulation is considered. A circuit developed specifically for the purpose of simulating corona is detailed and its application in the tests is described."
"Significant problems of 66-77-kV cross-linked polyethylene insulated cable are discussed. Improvements in cable construction and manufacturing processes realized over the past five years are described as well as their influence on cable performance. Higher impulse and ac breakdown voltage and higher corona starting voltage can be obtained, and the allowable electrical stress for long service performance is expected to be raised by use of the extruded semiconductive layer for both conductor and insulated shielding, and by the technical developments of the tandem extrusion of two or three layers to ensure firm bonding among two semiconductive layers and insulation. Descriptions are also given of the construction and performance of the cable joint and termination ion which is set up by the irradiated polyethylene tape-wrapped, molded method, as well as the specially made double-layer self bonding tape-wrapped method."
"Synchronous machine quantities are used in the various studies of power system behavior under both normal and abnormal conditions. Instead of the IEEE test code 115 [1] generally employed, this paper describes two approaches to measure synchronous machine quantities of each winding with the machine at standstill, namely, the indicial response method and the low-requency response method. These quantities are directly applicable as various coefficients in Park's equation of synchronous machine. Comparison with conventional methods and analysis in the short-circuit phenomena lead to the fact that it suffices to consider that both direct and quadrature axes each have one damper circuit and that the time constant of the damper winding and the coupling coefficients between windings can be considered almost constant in the low-frequency region (0-0.1 pu)."
"Tooth tips of the induction motor are very highly saturated by the tangential part of the total flux, especially at the short circuit. Actual values of the saturations were obtained by inverting the solution of the magnetic circuit. Air gap induction distribution under the tooth was assumed and the necessary form of the tooth tip was derived therefrom. From these considerations, the saturation factor for the inductance reduction was derived with the proof that its value depends mainly on the peripheral loading of the machine at a given load and very little on the tooth form."
"Stray load loss in dc machines is defined as the difference between the actual loss under load and the well-recognized loss. This paper describes a simple, reliable, and direct method of measuring this loss by means of a proposed short-circuit test with a correction factor for uncompensated-type dc machines. It also describes the sources and components of stray load losses as they occur under short-circuit test."
"This paper presents a method of calculating load flows by partitioning a system into subsystems of tree form, for which the node-voltage equations can be solved very efficiently by optimally ordered Gaussian elimination. The solution for the complete system is then obtained by coupling direct solutions for the trees by a blockiterative method. Results comparing the block method with the accelerated Gauss-Seidel method show that the block method is considerably faster."
"This paper aims to apply a network-flow method for the load-flow calculation in electric power systems and to discuss a computer handling technique from the computational aspects. An attractive feature of the new method is its ability to handle calculation rapidly without requiring so large an amount of computer memory. The program based upon the proposed method has been developed, and a flow diagram for the algorithm is presented. A numerical example for the calculation is also described as well as the convergence characteristics of the solution of computational processes. The method is compared with a conventional one from viewpoints of computation time and data storage space."
"This is a progress report by Houston Lighting & Power Company (HL&PCO) on testing 15-kV cable terminations in a marine environment. The test rack, which has been intermittently energized since December 10, 1965, supports 70 terminations on test including those with porcelain, tape, and other materials for an exterior surface. All failures are believed caused by leakage current. Eighty-one percent of the porcelain terminations that were on test are still operating. All of the taped outdoor terminations on test are considered failed. Some of the other terminations, the nonporcelain and nontaped terminations, are still operating and look very encouraging and promising."
"This paper briefly reviews the status of high-efficiency, coal-oxidation, solid-electrolyte fuel cells being developed under Project Fuel Cell, describes the manufacturing technique of thin- film batteries consisting of numerous fuel cells and a 100-kW power plant now under construction, and projects the economics of a 1000-MW fuel-cell power plant."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"The Power Group is an organization of IEEE members whose principal interest is in the advancement of the science and practice of electric power generation, transmissibn, distribution, and utilization. All members of the IEEE are eligible for membership in the Group and will receive this TRANSACTIONS upon payment of the annual Group membership fee of $6.00. For information on joining, write to the IEEE at the address given."
"In the planning and design of a high-voltage transmission network it is sometimes desirable to install controllable kilovar ar capacity at several locations to support bus voltages during emergencies. This problem arises when transmission line or generation outages cause bus voltage magnitudes to decrease below desirable limits. The problem of selecting where and how much kilovar capacity is required has many feasible solutions which satisfy the conditions imposed. A method for locating that solution with the minimum total installed capacity is presented. This nonlinear programming problem will be solved by using a linear approximation, solving the linear programming problem, and then correcting the linear approximation through the use of differences between the linear and nonlinear results. The method is illustrated by an application to a portion of a large high-voltage network."
"A decomposable mixed-integer programming model for simultaneous economic consideration of unit commitment and short-term dispatch of thermal power generating equipment is presented. An optimum solution procedure is described which takes advantage of the structure of the model and promises computational efficiency in practical applications. Characterizing the demand forecast as a discretized function permits a probabilistic forecast to be incorporated in the scheduling model. The model minimizes the total expected costs of start-up, shutdown, and unit operating costs subject to the demand, reserve, and unit commitment constraints. Extensions to multiple periods and to include additional constraints such as time dependent start-up costs and geographic constraints are given."
"A concept of load-frequency control associated with security actions to prevent system disturbances is presented. It utilizes a technique based on logic and adaptive circuits."
"Kyushu Electric Power Company (KEP) already has the automatic load dispatching control system by using a digital computer for process control. In addition to the existing computer control system, KEP put into service the control of power system voltage and reactive power early in 1968. The necessity, principle, and method of the centralized control system of system voltage and reactive power in KEP is discussed."
"A method is presented for determining power and energy losses in primary feeder, and a plan is described for mechanized data collecting and processing for the determination of such losses. A computer program capable of handling any number of radial distribution circuits with various line equipment has been developed to calculate primary-feeder losses."
"The two conference papers listed have been accepted for IEEE Transactions on Power Apparatus and Systems and are now open for written discussion until February 25, 1969. Duplicated double-spaced typewritten copies of each discussion should be sent to: IEEE Headquarters, Technical Conference Services, 345 East 47 Street, New York, NY 10017, on or before February 25, 1969. The papers are: (68 TP 162-PWR) \"TNA and Laboratory Study of the Switching Surge Behavior of Lightning Arresters\" by G. Carrara, A. Clerici, G. Mazza, and A. Taschini; and (68 TP 693-PWR) \"The Capco Group Probability Technique for Timing Capacity Additions and Allocation of Capacity Responsibility\" by L. Firestone, A.H. Monteith, and W.D. Masters. "
"Utilizing a concentric aluminum shell, aluminum foil, an epoxy sealant, and liquid nitrogen, an efficient and simple freeze chamber was designed and fabricated which is capable of effectively freezing pipe-type cable oil in a relatively short time. Designed to contain liquid nitrogen in contact with the pipe surface, the chamber permits heat absorption at a maximum rate. The short freeze times and freeze lengths attained by utilizing the cold temperature characteristic of liquid nitrogen indicate this technique to be a highly satisfactory method of sectionalizing oil in high-voltage pipe-type circuits in minimum time."
"A special insulating paper, developed for use in EHV power cable, is described. Generally speaking, where the insulating paper is made of the same pulp, the thinner the paper, the higher the impulse breakdown strength, and the lower the power factor. In view of this fact, a special insulating paper (combination paper), with a high-impulse breakdown strength, low power factor, and great mechanical strength has been developed by making thin insulating paper and cementing a plurality of sheets together with a suitable adhesive. 275-kV, 1 ×1200 mm2 oil-filled cable and 275-kV, 3 ×1400 mm2 pipe-type oil-filled cable using this combination insulating paper have been proved to possess excellent properties, such as shown in Table IV and Fig. 10, respectively, and the special characteristics of the insulating paper are fully displayed in the finished cable. The motive for the development of the combination paper, its theoretical background, and the properties of the insulating paper and of the cable using that insulating paper are reported."
"The paper presents a block diagram representation of the reluctance synchronous motor and investigates its dynamic stability under different operating conditions using the linear servo theory. Both the stability of torque and power angle functions and of the overall system, including the system dynamics, are analyzed for different steady-state power angles and working voltages as well as for different supply frequencies. The significance of armature resistance on stability is brought out and a means of compensation for improving the dynamic response is suggested. The effect of damper winding is not included."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"This page or pages intentionally left blank."
"Lists all society officers and members as of October 1968."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"The Power Group is an organization of IEEE members whose principal interest is in the advancement of the science and practice of electric power generation, transmissibn, distribution, and utilization. All members of the IEEE are eligible for membership in the Group and will receive this TRANSACTIONS upon payment of the annual Group membership fee of $6.00. For information on joining, write to the IEEE at the address given."
"Provides notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Stability studies were made[1] on a digital computer of the British Columbia Hydro and Power Authority Peace River System which indicated the advisability of using high-speed excitation with a stabilizing feedback. Consideration of the novelty of this technique led to a decision to conduct field tests to confirm that the equipment would behave as forecast. In addition, these tests could provide confirmation of the assumptions and techniques employed in the use of the digital computer program. The tests were made on a small hydroelectric station connected to the main system by a relatively weak line. Single phase to ground faults were applied to the station 132-kV bus. The results of these tests and of computer simulations are shown."
"Higher voltages than anticipated and large neutral currents were measured on 345-kV shunt reactors installed at each end of a 261.4-mile 345-kV circuit operated in close parallel with a 138- kV circuit. The phenomenon existed only when the 345-kV circuit breakers at both ends were open, the line ungrounded, and either or both of the EHV shunt reactors connected. Field investigations and measurements are presented."
"Shunt reactor compensation on multicircuit untransposed overhead transmission lines may interact with the intracircuit and line-to-ground capacitances of the lines to produce severe near- resonant coupled voltages on a de-energized circuit."
"A technique is described for approximating the effect of various factors on the radio noise level, due to conductor corona, on EHV transmission lines. The technique is essentially one of comparison. Relations are given in the Appendix for calculating the conductor gradients and results are presented in curve form. The application is intended only for comparison of radio noise generated by conductor corona on ac lines, with conductors ranging only from 0.3 to 1.3 inches radius (1.5 to 3.3 cm) and for the frequency range from about 0.2 to 1.6 MHz. If an existing line has been evaluated statistically the technique can be used to approximate the radio noise level of another line. A relation is also given for obtaining curves of 3-phase voltage to conductor radius for the same radio noise generation. Because of possible conductor surface differences and environmental differences, which cannot be too accurately evaluated, care is necessary in any final estimation of the average radio noise level."
"In the absence of standards governing insulation levels and clearances for live line maintenance practices, recommendations for minimum requirements are submitted. It is intended to base these requirements on realistic evaluation of the transient voltages to which equipment may be subjected, and to establish flexible rules that will not restrict future progress."
"This paper shows possible ferroresonant overvoltages on wye-delta transformer banks during single-phase switching as a function of transformer size and lateral length. Application guide is based on industry standard voltage criteria. Secondary loading and neutral resistor requirements are given. A neutral resistor presents an attractive solution in many cases. Simple to use equations are given to allow application of test data."
"This paper describes the results of sparkover tests made with switching surge voltages superposed on 50-Hz voltage, standard deviations of sparkover voltage of a pair of sphere and air gaps, sparkover characteristics of 11- by 6.75-inch suspension insulators, the influence of electrode size on switching surge sparkover voltage, and the humidity correction factor for switching surge voltages of an air gap. The tests were conducted at the Shiobara Laboratory; a 10 000-kV, 750-kJ surge generator was used."
"Unlike conventional cables, the operating temperature of sodium cable lies close to its melting point. Although this does not affect the current rating at normal ambients, one cannot reap the full current rating benefits which normally accrue from a lowered ambient temperature. This paper describes how the ambient temperature affects the maximum operating temperature of sodium cable."
"This paper supplements and updates previous bibliographies on transformer noise. A separate section on transformer noise patents is included."
"The T-T connected transformer is a connection of two single-phase transformers which will yield the same phasor relation as a standard 3-phase transformer. However, because of the unsymmetrical nature of the T-T connected transformer, undesirable negative and zero-sequence voltages may be introduced into the electric system. Fortunately, these voltages are quite small for a properly designed T-T connected transformer under normal load. A method for determining the induced negative-and zero-sequence voltages (or currents) by utilizing the interconnected sequence impedance circuit for the T-T connected transformer is presented."
"The development of resin-bonded paper bushings for extra-high voltages is described. The problems of thermal stability, internal partial discharges, breakdown along laminae, and the manufacture of large insulating bodies are discussed. An evaluation of the merits of resin-bonded and oil-impregnated paper bushing is made. The suitability of new bushing designs is shown by reporting the experiences in operational and experimental networks up to system voltages of 1050 kV."
"A method is described for determining the electrostatic field strength with the aid of a high-speed computer. The method is based on the conformal mapping according to Schwarz-Christoffel, and it is suitable for the calculation of voltage gradients in the vicinity of bare or insulated rounded boundaries governed by three potentials, particularly with reference to transformers."
"A draft of proposed standards for switching surge tests on oil-insulated power transformers is presented for study and information. A brief review of the background leading to such tests is followed by the proposed standard dealing with switching surge test specifications, the test code which includes wave shape requirements, suggested methods of generating switching surge transients, sequence of tests, failure detection, core saturation, and test connections. A table of switching surge test voltage corresponding to basic impulse insulation level is presented for oil-immersed apparatus to be used when switching surge tests are specified."
"The major objectives of this paper are to show how a properly tuned coupling network may be selected, how the appropriate component values may be determined, and how the network may be accurately tuned. Two new concepts relative to power line carrier coupling are introduced. The first deals with the establishment of workable limits for the range over which the coupling network may be detuned by 60-Hz bus conditions (while still meeting transmission objectives), and the second shows means for evaluating the effect of the coupling unit (return loss) upon the standing wave ratios in the wire line as well as in the entrance cables. The resulting tuned coupling network has the following characteristics: 1) performance unaffected by substation bus conditions at the point of coupling; 2) predictable bandwidth and band location; 3) low coupling loss (less than ½dB) from entrance cable to phase wire; 4) smooth frequency response (high return loss) over the derived band; 5) high blocking loss (greater than 25 dB) from phase wire to substation bus."
"In considering the use of insulated and transposed ground wires for communications or other purposes, the magnitude of the ground wire losses were determined so that the losses could be properly evaluated as a cost or credit for this use when compared to the conventional construction of grounded steel ground wires. Three structure configurations and three different ground wire conductors were studied to determine the variation in the losses for different designs and conductors. The effect of changing the phase wire or ground wire configurations and changing the conductivity of the ground wires makes it necessary to analyze each combination of conductor configuration and ground wire conductivity."
"The impulse and switching surge flashover characteristics of a horizontal double-break disconnecting switch have been investigated. Starting with a single-pole arrangement the open-gap dimension was coordinated with the flashover of 1050-and 1300-kV BIL supporting post insulators for positive-polarity switching surge waves under dry conditions. In a similar manner the open-gap and pole-to-pole dimensions of a 3-pole arrangement were coordinated to the flashover of the insulators. With the terminal-to-terminal and pole-to-pole dimensions so determined, probability of flashover data was obtained for wet and dry conditions with a 150 X 5000-μs wave to represent switching surges and a 1.3 X 50-μs impulse wave. Critical flashover values were obtained during the probability tests. With the pole spacing of a closed switch coordinated with the insulator flashover a 50 X 3000-μs bias voltage of opposite polarity was applied to the pole adjacent to the one being tested. Presented are derived mean slopes of the probability curves that may be used with confidence to select a withstand value based on a 50-percent flashover level."
"Fusible elements of a uniform cross-sectional area, such as wire, produce an arc voltage that is directly related to available fault current, but is not basically related to circuit voltage. Conversely, nonuniform area elements, such as perforated ribbon, generate maximum arc voltages independent of fault-current magnitude, but proportional to circuit voltage. The instant of fault-current initiation determines whether the fuse will encounter maximum let-through current, arc voltage, and arc energy."
"This technical paper deals with two phases of wet testing of EHV station insulators; one for conventional rainfall tests with prescribed rate of precipitation and water resistivity and the other for artificial contamination or pollution tests under wet conditions. The authors recommend a change in USA Standards for rate of precipitation and resistivity of water and offer supporting test data confirming the ability to distinguish between satisfactory and unsatisfactory insulator designs as a result of employing their new proposal. They also offer a proposed contamination test procedure which is convenient to use, which gives reproducible results, and which is sufficiently flexible for use in varying the severity of the applied artificial contaminant according to user requirements. The artificial contamination, or pollution, test may be used in rating insulator designs concerning performance under contaminated and wet conditions."
"Practical calculations of transient resistance effects in conductors are reported. Included are the current density distributions in cylindrical and semi-infinite solid conductors for an applied surface step electric field E, and the density in a flat wide conductor. Two analogies are used to yield useful results: thermal diffusion in a cylinder and voltage transients on a semi-infinite transmission line. Results are applied to the calculation of time constants of a transmission line and force build-up in a solenoid."
"Distribution transformer secondary faults are shown to be potentially difficult for a primary interrupting device to clear. Evaluation test programs, therefore, should include this type of fault-interrupting test. Secondary fault recovery voltage data presented is derived from synthetic techniques, field interrupting tests and laboratory interrupting tests. TRV frequency is confirmed to be inversely proportional to the transformer voltage rating, directly proportional to the one-half power of kVA rating, and dependent upon transformer and system grounding connections. The trend toward lower transformer impedances may create problems for interrupting devices since TRV frequencies and the resultant rates of rise of recovery voltage are higher. Laboratory circuits using typical distribution transformers can be set up to be equivalent to field conditions and are satisfactory for exploring the adequacy of interrupting devices for clearing transformer secondary faults."
"The broad principles are described which are used in the planning of VAR supply and control on the American Electric Power System. The discussion relates to the selection, utilization, and coordination of various VAR supply and control equipment, such as generators, synchronous condensers, static capacitors, and shunt reactors. Emphasis is placed on the importance of a well planned and coordinated VAR control in the design of a reliable power system."
"A sound theory of forecasting may be defined in two steps. The first step is to separate the whole into components that are more easily analyzed and reasoned than the whole. Previously existing techniques supplemented by new applications of regression analysis[1] are available to solve this step. The second step is to forecast the components and to reunite them to obtain a forecast of the whole. A digital computer program that has been developed to solve this second step will be discussed. Most significant in this new load forecasting program is the addition of another dimension-the probability dimension. The user of this program expresses to the program his uncertainty of the component forecasts, and it generates the resulting uncertainty of the final whole forecast. The required probability theory and methods of expressing uncertainty are stressed."
"The electric utility industry under the auspices of the Edison Electric Institute (EEI) is engaged in a research project to study the parallel operation of ac and dc transmission lines. An intermediate-power-level model, the major facet of this project, is described in this paper. The system model includes complete representation of a power system from generation to load and the system buses are interconnected by both ac and dc transmission lines. The model generation includes analog simulation of a steam turbine as well as alternator excitation and regulation. Transmission lines are represented by distributed parameters. The converter stations include 50-kW mercury-arc rectifier bridges and complete automatic controls similar to those used on actual dc transmission lines."
"Growth of system loads and the establishment of new interconnections have resulted in increasing the magnitude of inadvertent energy interchange. This paper describes the principle causes of such interchange and suggests various ways to minimize it. The interchange cannot be completely eliminated, and after-the-fact balancing is necessary. Balancing methods are reviewed, a new method suggested, and recommendations made as to the preferable methods."
"The interrelationship of time error, frequency deviation and inadvertent flow is discussed as it affects each system of an interconnection and the interconnection as a whole. The various quantities causing inadvertent flow and time error are evaluated. In addition to power flow (MW) and time error, the flow of energy (MWh) is treated. Numerical examples of conditions of inadvertent flow are included."
"The first part of this paper deals with the response of a large load-frequency control system (power system) when subjected to a major disturbance. If the system becomes unstable, upon the occurrence of a disturbance, incidents like the great blackout of 1965 in the Eastern United States and Canada can occur. This paper differs from much previous work in the respect that the assumption that the system be linear is not made. A numerical method is presented to solve for the nonlinear system. The linear case can be treated as a degenerate case of the more difficult problem. Since it is possible to find an exact solution for a linear system, examples are presented to show good agreement between the exact solution and the solution obtained by the numerical method."
"While in the first part of this paper the response of a large load-frequency control system (power system) when subjected to a major disturbance has been considered, in this second part nonlinear programming is used to minimize the effect of such a disturbance on a system. This sharply contrasts with the old cut and try procedure, which consisted of adjusting the control parameters to improve system performance."
"The basic concepts of stationary Markov processes and particularly their application to transmission system reliability evaluation are discussed and illustrated. Transmission components are assumed to operate within a 2-state fluctuating environment described by normal and stormy weather conditions. Markov processes are used to determine the system failure rate and the probabilities of failure for simple configurations and to illustrate the bunching effect of storm associated failures on parallel facilities. The variation in the failure probabilities is shown as a function of the expected repair time and the degree of storm associated failures. The results are compared with those obtained using a previously published approximate method."
"Modem generator excitation systems provide good voltage regulation at normal system frequency and assist in maintaining transient stability during disturbances. However, a number of abnormal system operating conditions should be considered in evaluating excitation system performance. Some of these conditions are extended periods of operation at other than normal frequency, or voltage, or both, simultaneously. These system conditions can cause excessive output from the generator excitation system and impose overloads on the generator and step-up transformer."
"Challenging management to face up to the realities of computers, this paper makes a strong case for recognition of software (programming) as the second half of a computer system. A step-by-step review of the decisions involved in planning the successful implementation of a computer system is given. The software (programming) is broken down into four functions: program specifications, program planning, program manufacture, and program installation. In each, a concise description of the work and the qualifications necessary to perform it are provided. A training program is added that includes descriptions of training courses, on-the-job training recommendations, and prerequisite qualifications of personnel being considered for such training. A concluding section deals with a discussion of factors to be considered by management in determining whether the customer should buy programming or develop the capability to do it with his own organization."
"The structures comprising the Wells Hydroelectric Project depart from the usual concept of other low head developments in that the powerhouse, switchyard, spillway, and fish facilities are incorporated into one structure which for simplicity of description is designated a hydrocombine and is illustrated by the artist's concept shown in Fig. 1. Combination of powerhouse and spillway functions is accomplished by placing the generating units in individual structures and providing spillway openings between the structures as illustrated in Figs. 2 and 3. The generating structures are joined at the top by a deck which spans the spillway openings. Transformers, 230-kV switchyard, and service cranes are located on a continuous top deck of the hydrocombine. The unique arrangement of the structural design of the hydrocombine dictated some variations from conventional electrical design thereby introducing some new control and plant layout concepts. This paper presents the project's electrical design."
"This paper is a review and comment on a number of factors to be evaluated in the design of a station service system. It deals particularly with auxiliary power schemes for large multi unit plants, and describes recent hydroelectric developments in Eastern Canada."
"This paper establishes the fundamental laws relating to the speed control of induction motors by simple voltage control and emphasizes the problems that may be caused by excessive input currents which cause stator overheating. Eight different thyristor voltage control circuits have been tested to determine a best control circuit for three-phase motors and test results are given. A practical speed control for a 4-hp motor is described and the way in which a special rotor design can minimize the problem of excessive stator losses is convincingly demonstrated."
"This paper discusses the results of tests made on a 3-phase solid iron rotor motor and substantiates simple design equations that give a clear understanding of the motor performance. From this understanding, areas in which the motor could be exploited are suggested, and it is concluded that the solid rotor machine has characteristics that are particularly suitable for solid-state power controls."
"The widespread interest in applying semiconductor switching elements to induction motor speed control has created. a need for a fast and accurate means of predicting motor performance under the unconventional excitation inherent in these systems. In many cases this excitation takes the form of alternate periods of normal sine-wave excitation and periods of open-circuit operation. This paper presents an analytic means of determining steady-state performance under these conditions. Use of the techniques presented permits direct computer solution without iteration. Solution time is thus much shorter than can be achieved by iterative solution of the system differential equations and the necessarily long computation times required to allow the solution to reach steady state from arbitrary initial conditions. Computer results for a single-phase motor and for a capacitor run motor are presented. Results include average torque, motor losses, and efficiencies, and instantaneous torque, current, and voltage as a function of speed. Run time on an IBM 1620 Model II is approximately 100 seconds for each of the desired speeds. The method is thus well suited to evaluation of proposed motor designs and subsequent design optimization."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"The Power Group is an organization of IEEE members whose principal interest is in the advancement of the science and practice of electric power generation, transmissibn, distribution, and utilization. All members of the IEEE are eligible for membership in the Group and will receive this TRANSACTIONS upon payment of the annual Group membership fee of $6.00. For information on joining, write to the IEEE at the address given."
"The seven conference papers listed have been accepted for IEEE Transactions on Power Apparatus and Systems and are now open for written discussion until April 25, 1968. Duplicated doublespaced typewritten copies of each discussion should be sent to: IEEE Headquarters, Technical Conference Services, 345 East 47 St., New York, NY 10017, on or before April 25, 1968."
"Variable frequency stepped-voltage wav eforms generated by an SCR bridge-inverter are used to drive a 3-phase induction motor. The system coefficient matrix associated with the volt- ampere differential equations of a polyphase induction machine is cyclic symmetric about its major diagonal axis. A basic property of this type of matrix is that it can be diagonalized by a transformation of variables by use of the well-known symmetrical component transformation. Here mutual cross-coupling terms give rise to speed- sensitive coefficients in the solution equations. Hence, the contribution presented in this paper is in the formulation of the solution of high-order complex systems in closed form. Solutions are obtained for phase currents and line and phase voltages on a per mode basis, where a mode is defined as one sixth of a cycle. Two cases arise as a result of both speed and slip conditions of the load. In one case conduction takes place over each entire mode and in the other case conduction ceases at some intermode time τp. The latter case requires two sets of solution equations per mode. Torque equations are derived and typical response curves are plotted. Experimental testing of a prototype system corroborates derived analytical solutions."
"Induction motors excited with static frequency converters almost invariably are subjected to nonsinusoidal voltage waveforms, and the presence of time harmonics in the applied voltage results in currents at the harmonic frequencies. These currents result in additional and sometimes rather large losses. A method for calculating these harmonic currents and losses is presented, and experimental data are included to substantiate it. The losses are separated into various components and it is shown that the largest loss is usually in the rotor bars as a result of deep bar effect. Harmonic losses are shown to be nearly independent of motor load and the fundamental magnetizing current is found to increase over that which would be present for the same rms fundamental voltage. These observations are explained on a theoretical basis. The encouraging correlation between test and calculated data confirms that the important elements which differ between motor performance on sinusoidal and nonsinusoidal waveforms have been identified and accounted for."
"Neither the analog study of electric machines[1]-[4] nor the modeling technique in feedback control systems is new. However, modeling a multimachine system with parameters directly determined from tests and checking the steady-state and transient performances from analog studies with those from actual machine tests are very complicated but indispensable for complete modeling."
"In an earlier paper it was shown that machine instability might occur when a reluctance-synchronous machine is operated at low speeds (low frequencies). In this paper, several methods of stabilizing a reluctance-synchronous machine during operation at low speeds are presented. The basis of the stabilizing technique is established by employing the theory of small displacements to show that system damping can be introduced by altering the effective value of the applied voltages according to the change in rotor speed. A control system which continuously adjusts the amplitude of the source voltages as well as a control which employs controlled rectifiers to adjust the effective value of the applied voltages are presented. Results of an analog computer study are given to demonstrate the feasibility and performance of these control systems with sinusoidal and stepped voltages applied to the stator terminals of the machine."
"A homopolar machine has been analyzed to ascertain whether it is possible to use it as a high-current, low-voltage pulse generator. A transient expression for the field flux has been deduced and the time constant determined. The effect of the eddy currents produced in the solid metal body of the machine has been included and an expression for the flux density due to eddy currents has been deduced, as well as an expression for the transient current in the magnetizing coil."
"The effect of a sudden short circuit on a homopolar generator is analyzed and the transient time constant is deduced. The effect of nonuniform air gap flux is considered. It is shown that the time constant of a machine with a very small air gap and thick cylinder is quite large, while the time constant of a thin cylinder machine with a larger air gap is small."
"The consideration of slotting in the armatures of dc machines increases the number of grid points to be considered beyond the capacity of normally available computers. To reduce the memory storage, a combination coordinate system characteristic to the parts of the lamination is proposed. To satisfy a large number of boundary conditions, a scheme is described to separate the rotor and stator lattices used for the calculation of the vector potentials. A modular scheme to take care of the profile repetitions in the armature is described. The flow charts of subprograms to be used with existing computer programs are given."
"The calculation of flux densities in dc machines using digital computers requires a representation of the magnetization curve of the materials either as H = f1(B) or B = f2(H). A figure of merit of the approximation is defined. The representation can be achieved by the use of simple algebraic or transcendental functions. For satisfactory fit, however, the B-H characteristic has to be subdivided into several parts. As a better alternative a numerical method is proposed in which the magnetization curve is subdivided into a large number of sections. A method of linear interpolation is then employed. A computer program to accomplish this task is described."
"Normally applied maintenance tests do not evaluate the condition of insulation between the turns of generator coils. The existing standards recommend neither methods of turn insulation testing nor values of voltage for testing turn insulation. This situation exists in part because of the difficulty in applying a proper test voltage to the turns without overstressing the ground insulation. Occasions arise, particularly with large hydro generators, where it is necessary to either test the turn insulation to assess the quality of the coils in a stator winding or else to completely rewind the machine."
"This paper supplements two previous bibliographies on rotating electric machinery."
"The control and operational principles of HVDC transmission are briefly reviewed. Basically no telecommunication is necessary for operation, with the exception of telephone connections. As the demand for service and system control increases, telecommunication requirements will grow. General requirements of telecommunications are summarized and specific requirements regarding signal speed and volume and channel bandwidth are listed for different purposes, for instance, link operation, protection, and frequency control. Multiterminal arrangements are considered from a telecommunications viewpoint. Different transmitting media, e.g., line carrier and microwave, are discussed. It is shown that the capacity of line carriers transmitted on overhead dc lines will normally be sufficient whereas long cables may demand further measures."
"Propagation of high-frequency signals along a power line is adversely affected by deposits of ice or hoarfrost on the conductors. A difficulty arises in the application of conventional modal analysis to a study of the effects of ice on propagation since the lossy ice layer forms a discontinuity at its surface with the lossless air. An analytical method to eliminate this difficulty is proposed, based on the transformation of nodal charging current networks derived for ice-covered systems of parallel conductors. The method allows conventional lossy line analysis to be applied to propagation problems on ice-covered multiconductor power lines. Calculation of ice contribution to power line carrier attenuation on a two-pole dc line with bundled conductors is demonstrated."
"The effects of external surface contaminants and moisture on the internal sparkover of lightning arresters is of prime concern in the design of extra high voltage (EHV) stations. This paper describes the design and acceptance sparkover and contamination tests performed on several different ratings of a multiunit arrester designed specifically for use on 500-kV systems. The sparkover characteristics were determined for various degrees of surface contamination and several different methods of surface wetting."
"The objective is to promote a better understanding of protective gaps, their characteristics, influence of design factors on perfornance, applications, and limitations. Accordingly, the Working Group sponsored sparkover tests on a proposed 500-kV ring-to-rod protective gap. Comparative tests were conducted at laboratories of the Ohio Brass Company, the Hydro-Electric Power Commission of Ontario, and the Bonneville Power Administration. This paper summarizes and compares the impulse, switching surge, and 60-Hz sparkover test results."
"Difficulty of ac circuit interruption is influenced by the time-function of the rise of transient recovery voltage (TRV) across the interrupting device following interruption. It has been common practice to express the severity (steepness) of this time-function in terms of rate of rise of the voltage. However, this approach is not definitive when applied to the initial portion of the displaced-cosine transients that are associated with lumped-element circuits ( e.g., transformer- and reactor-limited faults, series and shunt reactors, and inductive load circuits). The correct measure of initial TRV severity is shown to be acceleration, rather than rate of rise, of voltage. Expressions for acceleration of both single- and multiple- frequency transients are presented, as well as methods for determination of acceleration. Use of the voltage-acceleration concept in testing and applying interrupting devices is illustrated."
"Salt pollution on outdoor insulators has been a serious problem in Japan, and steady efforts have been made to prevent flashover faults on polluted insulators. As a part of such efforts, a simple method of artificial pollution test has been developed to evaluate the flashover characteristics of polluted insulators, especially those with large dimensions. In this test, a salt solution of various concentrations containing a certain amount of kaolin is prepared and sprayed on the entire surface of the insulator to give a required density of salt deposit and sufficient moisture."
"Skin-effect behavior of long straight conductors of complicated cross-sectional shape may be predicted using the recently developed modal theory of current flow. Practical use of this method presupposes that suitable numerical techniques can be found to allow adequate accuracy to be attained without excessive use of computer time. A digital computer program is described that achieves this purpose satisfactorily, using very fast numerical techniques and making automatic compensation for truncation error. The program does not require the conductor description to be furnished in analytical form and may easily be employed to study a wide variety of conductor shapes. Some typical results are shown and comparisons with experimental data made."
"A circuit breaker of a new type has been developed as the removable breaker element for metal-clad switchgear for 23/34.5 kV service. It is a single pressure, dead-tank SF6 circuit breaker which employs magnetic driving action produced by the fault current to drive the gas through the arc to interrupt it. Complete development tests have been performed, as required by applicable standards, as well as additional tests, considered justified, to prove reliability. The resulting breaker is small in size, quiet in operation, and provides features heretofore unavailable in circuit interrupters."
"It is pointed out that conventional methods of calculating the short-circuit ratings of cable conductors can lead to gross errors in the case of the thin metal tape shields commonly used in plastic-insulated cables. A more rigorous treatment of the problem is developed for both single and repeated short circuits. The theoretical calculations are compared with the results of a series of practical tests on two types of 15-kV polyethylene-insulated cable and with other test data available to the authors. Substantial agreement is found."
"A simplified layer type coil specimen was used to evaluate the corona resistance of flexible sheet insulation, magnet wire insulation, and varnishes. Tests were made at 110°C with 60-Hz voltage applied to the specimen. The test specimen was shown to be reproducible. The testing procedure is repeatable, and it does permit comparison of the corona resistance of materials and matenal systems."
"A relay scheme has been developed based on the instantaneous phase current zero crossings. Transient and steady- state unbalances will produce shifts of the phase currents, therefore measurement of the deviation of successive zero crossings from 60 degrees leads to six possible fault indications per cycle. Comparison of the deviation magnitude at either end of a relay zone can be used to locate the fault. This scheme requires no additional delay due to analog filtering. It is shown that all types of faults with zero or finite impedance give at least two and a maximum of six fault indications per cycle."
"The design of a comparison type of relay system for three-phase transmission lines based on the instantaneous position of zero crossings of the current waveforms is discussed. A composite signal based on these zero crossings is generated at both ends of a protected section and compared continuously by carrier current microwave or pilot wire means. It is extremely fast and can give as many as five clear indications of abnormal operation in the first cycle after a disturbance. Solid-state and magnetic devices are used exclusively for reliability, long life, and minimum power requirements."
"During severe emergencies which result in insufficient generation to meet load, an automatic load shedding program throughout the affected area can prevent total area collapse. It also helps to achieve fast restoration of all affected loads. This paper describes the factors involved in applying underfrequency relays to achieve a desired \"deficient generation\" protection level and a calculating method to achieve optimum relay settings."
"The now classical problem of optimlum dispatching miimizes the cost of production and transmission of electrical power to meet a specified demand under normal operating conditions. It appears logical and desirable to utilize and extend the methodology of optimum dispatching to problems encountered during abnormal operating conditions. This paper, as a first step in that direction, discusses a systematic approach toward minimizing the curtailment of service in a power system after a severe fault. The problem of minimizing load curtailment under a given set of emergency conditions is formulated as a problem of static optimization, subject to operational and equipment constraints. First, a feasible steady-state solution is obtained for the postfault network configuration. Starting from this initial feasible solution, the optinum (minimum curtailment) is approached by a gradient technique. An efficient computational procedure is based on the Newton-Raphson technique for solving the power flow equations, and the Kuhn-Tucker theorem for the optimization. The analytical results are verified on a 26-node example problem. Two typical emergency situations are considered: the loss of generation and the loss of an interconnection tie line. The same optimization procedure and the computed dual (Lagrangian) variables can be utilized for computer programs involving optimum service restoration, generation reserve scheduling, and system expansion studies."
"A method has been developed to simulate an automatic frequency control system in ac-dc power transmission on an analog computer. As an example of an ac-dc system a model of Sakuma frequency changer, between Tokyo Electric Power Co. system (50 Hz) and Chubu Electric Power Co. system (60 Hz), is studied in detail. Three new methods of automatic frequency ratio control (AFRC) by dc transmission are considered and compared. The variation of frequencies in the ac systems and the dc power change due to a step load increase in the Chubu power system are examined. These frequency variations and power change are used to optimize the parameters of the AFRC devices."
"This paper is an extension of the work by the authors on the Z-matrix load flow. The algorithm originally proposed is derived and further clarified by employing both the matrix equations with reference ground and those with a bus of the system as reference. Test results are reported on the use of the block-iteration process and the axis-reiteration process and the effect of load incorporation on convergence. Refinements in the basic algorithm are also included, with test results shown verifying the theory."
"Electrical engineers often treat their stationary networks, rotating machines, and microwave electronic devices as a collection of impedance elements Z without decomposing Z into its RLC components. It is shown here that a lumped or distributed impedance network, surrounded by its own electromagnetic field, is actually the sum of four different types of multidimensional networks: 1) the well-studied 1-network of branches in which the currents flow, 2) a 0-network forned by all the point generators, 3) a 2-network of equipotential surfaces that pass through the generators perpendicularly to the branches, and 4) a 3-network composed of three-dimensional impedance blocks surrounding the branches. Thus the topological structure of a stationary or rotating, electric or electronic network is neither a graph nor a polyhedron, but a so- called fiber bundle over a non-Riemannian manifold."
"A method applying probability techniques is presented for analyzing the reliability of a transmission system. The method considers generation and transmission equipment performance, weather conditions, load cycles, generation dispatch, interconnections, and the effect of scheduled outages."
"Describing the small signal performance of a multi- machine synchronous power system by a set of differential equations of the form [x] = [A] [x] allows standard multivariable control theory to be used in dynamic stability studies. The construction of the [A] matrix for a multimachine power system involves the application of Kron's rotational transformation to the transmission network admittance matrix, and a matrix analysis of the synchronous machines using internal flux linkages as state variables."
"The design, construction, and testing of one of the world's highest altitude high head pumped-storage projects presented extraordinary challenges to equipment designers, project design and construction engineers, as well as the testing and operating engineers. Considerations are described that lead to the selection of the major equipment, including the demands of high altitude upon the electrical design criterion. The two generator/motors are believed to be the world's largest 360 r/min synchronous machines. Special procedures for separate balancing of the generator/motor before coupling to the pump/turbine, and balancing techniques utilizing a full range of controlled speed balancing steps made possible by the wound rotor induction starting motor, have resulted in completed machines having exceptionally fine balance. The extensive instrumentation has provided not only a sound basis of testing during start-up, but also a complete hydraulic, mechanical, and electrical record of initial plant and system performance."
"Salient features of the powerhouse design include selection of an indoor-type powerhouse and elimination of a generator floor; implementation of a control philosophy stating that the control room should only be provided with the control elements which would be provided at a remote control station and a basic requirement that control functions and equipment should be flexible as regards modification to suit future operating requirements; installation of a digital operations controller which is intended to lead to future closed-loop control of the plant; grouping of four large hydro units on each 500-kV transformer bank; and standardization of the design to include Lower Monumental and Little Goose Projects to effect savings in design and equipment procurement costs."
"Static convertors for high-voltage direct-current transmission links, whether based on mercury-arc valves or thyristors, are controlled by accurately timed firing pulses from a control system. With conventional control systems it has not so far been practicable to operate a convertor on a very weak (high impedance) ac system; one principal reason is inherent harmonic instability caused by the direct dependence of the control system on ac line voltage and its distortion."
"Maximum utilization of an invertor's capacity and minimum consumption of reactive power demands an accurate constant extinction angle control. A new scheme for such a control is presented that is based on the integration of each commutating voltage waveform from -π + δc, thereby obtaining a simulation of the steady- state commutation equation. The resulting control is capable of fresh computation of the firing angle every cycle. The control is extended to cover the convertor operation over its full range from a minimum permissible angle of delay to the minimum permissible extinction angle."
"The possibility of abnormal harmonic generation in an ac system feeding a converter load is examined from the standpoint of automatic control systems used in modern HVDC transmission systems. It is shown that with certain types of automatic controls, the firing angles of converter valves may sustain some errors, which in turn could generate abnormal harmonic currents in the three- phase ac system feeding the converter. A criterion for predetermining the type and extent of abnormal harmonic generation is defined, and numerical examples given. Methods of reducing abnormal harmonic generation are discussed, and some experimental data supporting the theoretical calculations are also included."
"Unbalance in the operation of high-voltage dc convertors gives rise to unusual or uncharacteristic harmonics in the ac waveform not expected from the existing theory relating to balanced operation. Analysis of the effect of unbalances in the altemating voltages and the valve firing angles is provided together with selected characteristics illustrating the variations in the harmonics with unbalance as determined by a comprehensive digital computer program. Six-pulse and 12-pulse operation is considered."
"The author of the above-named work analyzes a new plc method that utilizes insulated bundle subconductors of transmission lines. The duscussor had proposed this technique in 1960 and had carried out several experiments on a model transmission line. The results of this investigation were rather discouraging because of the high cost of construction as compared with that of conventional plc and microwave channels. The discussor poses three questions based on the above to the original author. In replying the original author notes that answers to most of the discussor's questions can be found in the original closure. The author however, wishes to further comment briefly on the discussion. The author notes that the objective of his paper was to develop simplified modal analyses for lines with insulated bundle subconductors and to justify the simplifications. No experiemental work was done on any of the lines utilized for numerical demonstration."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"This page or pages intentionally left blank."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"The Power Group is an organization of IEEE members whose principal interest is in the advancement of the science and practice of electric power generation, transmissibn, distribution, and utilization. All members of the IEEE are eligible for membership in the Group and will receive this TRANSACTIONS upon payment of the annual Group membership fee of $6.00. For information on joining, write to the IEEE at the address given."
"Provides a listing of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"This paper describes a two-year investigation of radio interference (RI) levels in the vicinity of 400 miles of operating 500- kV transmission lines. Discussions are given of instruments, antennas, and types of surveys; the design and development of RI monitoring stations; and comparisons of the relative merits of various supplementary items. Results from RI profiles, RIV measurements, and monitor station recordings are analyzed and presented along with brief discussions of signal-to-noise ratios and evaluation of TVA's transmission line design and construction techniques."
"This study was made to identify and photograph the foul-weather coronas occurring on a high-voltage transmission-line conductor and to establish their radio-noise importance. On the most tested 230-kV line, snow impingement plumes caused radio interference (RI) to 90 times, and water drop spray plumes to 75 times, that of the base fair-weather noise level. Foul-weather RI caused by snow, rain, fog, ice, and condensate associated with the conductor overrode RI generated on insulators, accessories, hardware, and weathered conductor protrusions. H/sub 2/0 particles in different forms were present in the conductor environment for one-fifth the yearly time. The conductor surface gradient, the rate of decay outward from the conductor, the total conductor surface area, H/sub 2/0 particle size and formation, and air velocity over the conductor are important to both particle attachment to the conductor and to the severity and form of corona. This corona occurs as plumes, impingement plumes, spray plumes, glows, and microsparks. Confirming laboratory tests were made at 230 and 345 kV. Confirming observations were made on 345-and 500-kV lines. Corona losses were caused by impingement plumes during snowstorms and principally by spray plumes in rain."
"One year of fair-weather radio noise (RI) data from an EHV line was analyzed. Two types of variation were found: long- term over several months and short-term over several days. Summer RI readings were higher than winter readings by 12 dB and lasted longer. Based on these results, a procedure for predicting average monthly RI levels is outlined. Short-term variations of fair-weather RI level were analyzed statistically using the washing effect of rain on the conductor surface as an explanation of the RI variation. Results yielded a favorable inference for the statistical model."
"Results of radio interference (RI) level measurements on the first 735-kV line of Hydro-Quebec are presented. The cumulative relative frequency of RI levels for the period from October 1, 1965, to July 17, 1966, is studied. An approximation of this curve by three uniformly distributed meteorological conditions and the dis- tribution curve of absolute humidity are presented. An ensuin equation for the evaluation of RI levels in terms of temperature and relative humidity is included. The rate of change of RI levels with the maximum surface gradient on the conductors is reported. Frequency spectra and lateral profiles measured at mid-span are shown. The evaluation of RI levels using a published method is also illustrated."
"Criteria for the selection of line conductors and insulators are presented which may be helpful to the HV line designer when choosing among different line solutions. Methods are given for the predeternination of RIfrom bothconductors and insulatorstrings, then criteria are exposed for the definition of \"limit\" values for RI levels; these criteria are for the designer's reference."
"Analysis of the influence of electrode shapes on the behavior of air gaps, both with and without insulator strings between the electrodes, is completed through the use of switching impulse tests. Results of a similar analysis for lightning impulse tests are also described. An attempt is made to correlate the behavior of air gaps in switching and lightning impulse tests to a factor k which characterizes the shape of the electrodes. Diagrams are given that express discharge voltages for switching and lightning impulse tests as a function of k."
"The various discharge phenomena caused by contamination of insulator surfaces were investigated by means of slow and fast oscillographic recordings of the discharge current. It was found that the surface discharges have distinct stages of development. The visual manifestations were recorded simultaneously with the current pulses, providing a good correlation and an exact physical interpretation. It was found that contaminated surface discharges can be classified in three main types: the arc, streamer, and glow. The arc discharge has a highly ionized plasma channel with a small voltage drop while the other two are of low ionization density and carry a relatively high voltage. The ignition mechanism was also investigated and explained. Both streamer and glow discharges are accompanied by steep current pulses and are believed to be responsible for the high-intensity radio noise associated with contaminated surface currents. The use of such pulses or bursts of current to evaluate insulator performance is critically discussed."
"Flashover characteristics are presented for air gaps and insulators when a switching surge and a dc voltage are simultaneously applied to test specimens. In the first case, both a switching surge and a dc voltage were applied to the same electrode. This test is equivalent to the stresses generated by the reclosing of a circuit breaker. It was found that positive switching surge flashover voltages of rod-plane gaps are reduced by four to seven percent due to the existence of negative dc voltage. In the second case, a switching surge and a dc voltage were applied to each electrode. For rod- rod gaps, positive switching surge flashover voltages to ground decreased by 70 to 80 percent of the dc voltage value due to the existence of the negative dc voltage at the opposite electrode. These data are useful to EHV insulation design."
"A hybrid Computer, a direct combination of a digital and an computer, is used to simulate a dc power system. To achieve maximum computing proficiency the simulation is arranged so that the distributed parameter transmission system is represented on the digital computer while the analog computer is employed to represent the 6-phase converters. Results of a computer study are presented wherein system faults and parameter variations are considered. Also, a comparison of results obtained from a hybrid computer study and those obtained using the University of Wisconsin ac/dc system simulator is presented. It appears that the hybrid computer may be conveniently employed to study a large number of power system problems which heretofore have been limited to model studies."
"In this paper the hybrid computer-is-used-to-study dc power system consieing-of a 2-wire transmission system and two 12-phase converters with ground return. This work is an extension of the hybrid computer study of a 6-phase, 2-wire dc system which was reported in Part I of this paper.[2] Several features of a dc power system are presented including a comparison of results obtained from the hybrid computer study and those obtained using the University of Wisconsin ac/dc system simulator for a line-to- ground fault. It appears that the hybrid computer may be used to advantage in studying the effects of ac or dc system disturbances as well as the feasibility of any type of converter control system. Moreover, the simulation techniques presented in this paper may be extended to include a 3-phase transmission system whereupon the hybrid computer may be used to study electrical transients in ac power systems."
"This paper introduces and develops a new generalized approach to the dynamic simulation of an HVDC power transmission system. The approach involved is a generalized method of mesh analysis applied to the HVDC network. The simulation of HVDC convertors is characterized by the fact that the network to be solved changes with each discontinuity, such as valve firing and end of commutation. To facilitate such an analysis, topology is used and a technique is developed for the automatic selection of the appropriate network by recognizing the state of conducting and nonconducting valves. The method is inherently suitable for following the natural process of convertor operation which may culminate in various faults. To illustrate this method a simple HVDC system consisting of one convertor at each end is considered. Essential features of the program are shown by deriving waveforms of normal operation, commutation failure, four-valve conduction, bypass valve operation, and backfire."
"A method is presented which allows the evaluation of electrostatically induced currents by EHV transmission lines in objects where fringing effects are not negligible and consequently the problem cannot be reduced to the two-dimensional case. A digital program is developed based mainly on experimental results obtained on an air model, the validity of which is shown by comparison with measurements made in the field and in the electrolytic tank. General equations are derived based on these results and a digital program is established for their solutions."
"A scale model of an extra-high-voltage transmission line (735 kV) has been developed for the study of electrostatic induction in objects such as trucks, trailers, and lighting towers which are in the vicinity of the line. The model is operated in air at high frequencies. The method, including the factors which affect accuracy, is described. Special attention is given to the electrostatically induced steady-state currents. The results are comparable to those obtained in the electrolytic tank and to those recorded on the actual line."
"A study was done to analyze the discharge of a 735-kV line after its separation from the network. Two particular cases are treated: a short transmission line with saturable magnetic potential transformers at proper extremities, and a longer line with linear reactances also connected at both ends. A rapid discharge after the opening of the line allows an automatic reclosure some 25 Hz later without producing dangerous overvoltages. The magnetic potential transformer used for relaying and metering on the permanent system could reduce the residual voltage on the line due to its copper and iron losses, making it a preferable choice over capacitor potential transformers which do not have this latter property. The effects of different opening resistors on the breaker were also studied. The line discharge was studied by performing field tests (at 220 and 315 kV), and by using an analog computer having a capacity of 88 amplifiers. The first series of field tests was then simulated on the computer, and with the necessary corrections an extrapolation was done to study the 735-kV line discharge."
"Lightning damage on 3.3-and 6.6-kV overhead distribution lines is investigated. The damaged apparatus and its components are distributed on the line in the vicinity of lightning stroke point. Induced lightning surges are very dangerous at the line ends and they attack the poles branching the line harder than the neighboring poles. It is considered that blowing of primary fuses for distribution transformers is often caused by power short circuits formed by flashover of induced lightning surges on the bushings when lightning strikes close to the line. The appearance of lightning damage suggests that hitherto accepted mechanism of induced lightning surges should be re-examined. Also the actual results show that protective effect of overhead ground wire on induced lightning surges is considerably high."
"A method of determining voltage levels due to energizing or reclosing EHV transmission lines by using traveling phasor concepts is described. The major advantage over previously described methods is economy in computation since the energizing phase need not be varied. Comparisons with field tests and analog results show good agreement."
"The results of the first field tests performed to verify the design of the Virginia Electric Power Company 500-kV system are presented. Initial radio influence measurements made on each line section are compared with levels calculated during the design studies. Switching-surge voltages recorded during various normal and abnormal switching conditions are given, and are shown to be well within predicted values. Descriptions are given of the measuring equipment and techniques used for the field tests and for a continual monitoring of the system."
"An important phase of the investigative work preparatory to the operation and maintenance of the Pacific Northwest- Southwest dc intertie is the development of safe working procedures.[1] This paper describes the laboratory and field tests performed to determine the dc characteristics of hotline tools, and to gain more knowledge of certain phenomena peculiar to dc systems which may influence maintenance procedures. made available for printing May 2, 1967."
"Preliminary grounding tests have been carried out by the Bonneville Power Administration and by the Bureau of Reclamation in three regions of the western states, in preparation for the installation of a HVDC transmission system linking the Pacific Northwest and Southwest regions. Electric fields observed about ground mat locations in the Washington-Oregon area, the southern Nevada area, and the central California area were analyzed statistically as a function of distance from the ground mat. These fields are compared with the probable levels of natural fields induced by slow variations in the earth's magnetic field-in order to estimate the possible hazards involved in using ground return for current in a HVDC system."
"Two 20-kV, 36-MW converters, one used as a rectifier and the other as an inverter in a pump-back configuration, have been operated successfully demonstrating the feasibility of SCRs for high-voltage high-current applications. Effects of commutation transients within the converters and on other apparatus have been thoroughly explored and analyzed."
"Field and laboratory experiments concerning overhead transmission-line vibration show correlation between conductor strain and differential displacement. A method for converting f- differential displacement to strain is described. This conversion is necessary so that data from wide-spread geographical locations may be directly comptred. It is pointed out that, while the dynamic strain is important, it must be combined with the static strains to learn the true stress environment of a given conductor. Instrumentation and data gathering procedures are described."
"A switching surge transient recording device has been designed, built, and tested which serves as a continuous, unattended monitor of power system switching transients. Rather than reproduce the transient waveform, the recorder senses and records the positive and negative peak magnitudes of the transient to within a 4.0 per unit overvoltage limit, the maximum positive and maximum negative rates of rise of voltage within the limits of 20 to 2000 μS front time, and the instantaneous voltage level at the time of transient occurrence. The basic operation of the recorder is described and a portion of the data obtained during laboratory and field tests is presented."
"Use of the functional testing approach to predict the thermal capability of insulation systems by comparison with service- proved systems under identical simulated operating conditions more severe than normal is reported. As an example, the development of an effective functional test model and test procedure for the evaluation of armature coil insulation systems for large dc machines is described. Direct current form-wound motorette investigations are reviewed, with the evolutionary procedural changes and test results over the past ten years. Particular attention is given the criteria used to determine the point at which the thermal aging process impairs the dielectric properties of the coil insulation. Information is provided for appraising test codes for the evaluation and classification of insulation systems for dc machines being considered by IEEE Technical Committees."
"This general study of salient-pole features during starting of synchronous motors with laminated salient poles will give insight into the inherent possibilities and limits of this type of electrical machine to designers and users when applying any of the calculation methods. For that purpose the starting performance of a number of simplified synchronous motors is calculated and the connection between starting performance features and a few essential parameters is established. Amortisseur bar current distribution, constant and pulsating torque component, and field winding contribution are chosen as the characteristic starting features. Essential parameters are number and spread of amortisseur bars, average resistance and resistance distribution of amortisseur and field winding, and relative leakage reactance of the field winding. The current distribution is checked in a test machine."
"The effects of space harmonics in multiwinding double cylindrical structures are analyzed. Terminal characteristics of the machine are obtained by solving the dynamical equations of motion using certain linear transformations. The equivalent circuits are derived from the transformed equations of motion and the effects of current-sheet space harmonics are included. An example is considered and numerical calculations are made and compared with experimental results. For completeness, pertinent definitions and theorems relating to linear algebra are included."
"Predicting the transient performance or the steady-state operation of a dc machine supplied by rectified power can best be accomplished by representing the machine's electrical parameters by lumped circuit constants and then solving the problem by one of the many forms of circuit analysis. A test procedure for determining the lumped circuit constants of a dc machine is described In addition, the test workup procedure is outlined, experimental results are presented, and the procedure described is recommended for inclusion in IEEE test code for dc machines.[1] The procedure described is essentially a frequency response technique."
"Further development of single-phase, pole-changing motors based on the logic of pole-amplitude modulation are reported. The principles of preshaping and asymmetrical modulation have been extended to the single-phase motor, the former resulting in reduction of number of terminals from 12 to 6, while with the latter, the pole- amplitude modulation logic can be applied to any set of pole combinations. The versatility of this method is enhanced by extending it to the case of asymmetrical phase windings, resulting in 3-speed machines, which can be started as normal single-phase machines at any of the three speeds."
"Low-output, single-phase machines usually have single-layer windings and in this paper an attempt is made to extend the application of the pole-amplitude modulation method of speed changing to this class of machine. It has been shown that 2- and 3- speed induction motors with independent starting at any of the speeds are possible with single-layer windings. In all, only two different sizes of coils will be required for any pole combination, though a single size of coil will suffice in windings where uniform coil-side group distribution is adopted for the initial pole number. Test results for a few cases fully support the theoretical conclusions."
"The data presented in 1962 and 1963 on a new corona- and heat-resistant cable insulation1 based on ethylene-propylene rubber are augmented by data on the long-term stability of the insulation in water at various temperatures and additional data on resistance to corona and stability in long-term load-cycling test at high temperature and voltage. Experience with 4 000 000 conductor feet of cables rated for service from 5 to 35 kV with conductors up to 750 kcmil has been trouble-free since their installation in 1964, 1965, and 1966. The two prototype cables installed in 1962 are also operating perfectly. The suitability of this insulation in 3/C compact sector conductor cables has now been demonstrated. The advantages of insulations of this type for medium-high-voltage power cables is becoming evident throughout the world. A specification for a corona- and heat-resistant cable insulation is proposed."
"The ac resistance of large conductor cables can be reduced by the special form of construction commonly known as the segmental conductor. The effectiveness of this conductor design can only be evaluated by measurements of ac resistance, a reliable measuring technique is described. Using this technique an experimental investigation into a variety of factors influencing ac resistance has been made, and some results are given. The effect of some of these factors is confirmed by a very simplied theory."
"The thermal behavior of a number of soils including those frequently used for high-voltage cable backfill has been studied in the laboratory and in the field. Initially, thermal resistivity tests using a probe and thermal moisture migration tests were carried out in the laboratory. From these tests it was found that well-graded granular materials behaved the best. In particular \"limestone screenings,\" a by-product from rock quarries, was found to have highly desirable thermal properties. A full-scale field test was made by means of a simulated cable installation. The materials tested included a uniform sand, a manufactured sand and \"limestone screenings.\" The placement moisture and density of the materials was varied as well as the heat input. Observations of moisture and temperature gradient were made over a two and one- half year period. The results of this study confirmed the results of the earlier laboratory tests. The screenings and the manufactured sand, both of which were well graded, exhibited a low resistivity which remained stable during both dry and wet periods. The uniform sand had a higher initial thermal resistivity and became unstable due to moisture migration during dry periods of the year. Subsequently, a few simple tests have been made to investigate the flow of vapor and liquid in soil under a thermal gradient. A tentative explanation of the varying behavior of the materials, based on their respective porosity characteristics, is given."
"A calculation method is described for seeking a transient oil-pressure change in the feeding system of oil-filled cable which uses gravity tanks and pressure tanks. The basic differential equations of the line solved by the Runge-Kutta method using the digital computer are shown. The calculation method is also described when pressure tanks are installed in two or three locations."
"Transient voltages which occur in the circuits to protective relays and control devices have been known to wreck semiconductor components used in these circuits. Investigations have been conducted to determine the nature, cause, and magnitudes of these transient voltages. Obviously, the data obtained on these investigations should be as accurate as possible. Methods are presented which are used to improve the accuracy of recording with an oscilloscope in cases where the measuring equipment is beset with misleading indications."
"In the design of power systems for operation under abnormal conditions of voltage and frequency, the operating characteristics of turbine generators must be considered. Because of turbine blade vibration and reduced generator cooling there is a minimum frequency below which extended operation should be avoided. Analysis of equipment operating limitations, operating guides, and suggested automatic protection schemes are presented."
"This paper covers American Electric Power Service Corporation's selection of an alternator-rectifier excitation system for the two 724-MVA generators for Cardinal plant. It also reviews the experience with the shaft-driven exciters installed since 1952. Several alternate excitation systems were studied which led to the selection of the new Alterrex excitation system which is described in detail."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"This page or pages intentionally left blank."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"The Power Group is an organization of IEEE members whose principal interest is in the advancement of the science and practice of electric power generation, transmissibn, distribution, and utilization. All members of the IEEE are eligible for membership in the Group and will receive this TRANSACTIONS upon payment of the annual Group membership fee of $6.00. For information on joining, write to the IEEE at the address given."
"Corona discharges in air exist under several distinctive forms, either pulsative or stable. The properties of different corona modes are analyzed as they appear in a cylindrical distorted field. Differences between dc and ac excitations are emphasized. Corona discharges may produce energy loss without detectable radio noise or high noise at low energy loss, depending upon their form of appearance. The different withstands of asymmetric gaps under different polarities also find their explanation in corona mechanism."
"The results of field and laboratory tests on contaminated insulators, made to determine insulation level of the State Electricity Commission of Victoria's 500-kV transmission system, are presented, including performance of 220-kV lines operating in a very heavy contamination area, field measurements of the pollution and insulator flashover mechanism, development of artificial pollution for laboratory tests, and the use of this pollution for power frequency and switching surge tests at the General Electric Pittsfield High Voltage Laboratory. Test data include curves of power frequency and switching surge flashover levels versus contamination severity; power frequency flashover versus string length; and the results of high-speed motion picture tests made to determine the basic mechanism of critical surging and flashover on contaminated insulators, plus a theoretical explanation of this mechanism."
"Results of a full scale laboratory investigation into the ferroresonance phenomenon are presented. The investigation consisted of energizing and de-energizing three-phase 13-kV padmounted distribution transformers with single-phase cutouts. Applied cable lengths ranged from 100 to 5000 feet. In addition to three- phase switching, the application of resistive loading from 1 to 4 percent was also investigated as a preventive measure. Results indicate that three-phase switching, the use of a wye-wye transformer with both neutrals grounded, and the presence of secondary load are all effective in the control of ferroresonant overvoltages."
"This paper describes the results of a study, sponsored by Working Group No. 1 of the RI Subcommittee, on Hydro Quebec's 735-kV line. Various RI measuring techniques were used in obtaining frequency-spectrum and lateral profiles. Radio noise measuring locations were studied and compared with measuring practices for determining statistical RI levels of operating EHV lines. Comparison between different RI meters has indicated that in the broadcast band the Stoddart NM20B reads 1 to 3 dB higher than the Siemens. An RI measuring test among 14 meter operators indicated the \"human\" error to be plus or minus 2 dB. Nighttime visual corona was observed and discussed."
"The subject of the paper is a novel constant-current device. A given constant-current transformer entails limitations on the stabilized current, on the load resistance for a given stabilized current, on the counter EMF, and on the supply voltage; these limitations are analyzed and relevant design relations are established. A universal normalized design diagram is derived and plotted. A design example is worked out in detail using the theoretical expressions derived. The theoretical relations are compared to experimental ones obtained from tests on many constant-current devices."
"Test and adjustment of hydraulic turbine governors has been an unfortunately complicated process involving the optimization of several interrelated variables. In earlier years stable performance was achieved by empirical adjustments in the field on isolated load, but optimum was seldom achieved. In more recent years the interconnection of systems has denied the opportunity for testing of units on isolated load. Nevertheless, the interconnection of systems actually places a higher premium on good coordination. Optimization by test and adjustment of individual parameters has yielded improvement but it is limited in dealing with nonlinearities."
"The reverse transfer static inverter and static ac bus transfer switch system, as applied to power generating stations, are introduced. Equipment for which such protection is required and the power quality necessary are discussed. The proper protection methods for branch circuit coordination with static systems is described, using a particular power plant as an example."
"This paper describes the process used by the British engineer for designing power stations outside the British Isles, with emphasis on those features abroad which present special problems as compared with home installations. It reviews first the procedural steps involved from a project's initiation to completion and commissioning of the plant, and then shows how the major design decisions are reached from consideration of relevant factors."
"This paper describes a program for the preventive maintenance of hydroelectric generator windings. The program has been developed strictly from the operator's viewpoint. It is intended to provide a practical means of determining the condition and reliability of the winding insulation, and in addition, reveal maintenance techniques necessary to lengthen the winding life and to assure reliable operation from one test and maintenance period to another."
"The application of thyristor converters to the excitation of large generators as shunt connected solid-state exciters is described. Considerations important during the planning stage are discussed and some important exciter design details are given. The importance of the topic, control of power system stability by adjustment of generator excitation, is highlighted by reference to many other papers."
"One of the more common methods of determining the dynamic behavior of parallel-flow heat exchangers has been the development of a model for solution on a general-purpose analog computer. Because the analog by its inherent nature can only work with one independent variable (and most mathematical descriptions of a heat exchanger require two independent variables, time and space) the normal procedure has been to lump one of the variables, normally space, and solve continuously with respect to time. However, for large heat exchangers, this can result in a cumbersome analog network due to the number of space lumps required. A technique, time lumping, has been applied to the analog modeling of a heat exchange process to reduce the equipment requirement while at the same time providing models adequate for control studies. The derivation and application of this approach for a sample parallel-flow heat exchanger is presented and compared with a space-lumped solution."
"Intersystem power oscillations have occurred between the interconnected utility systems of Saskatchewan, Manitoba, and Ontario (West System). Such power swings have been most evident when the power transmission angles on the interconnections or on certain internal 138-kV and 115-kV transmission have been of relatively great magnitude. The oscillations have been controlled or reduced by adjustment of the excitation of speed control parameters on various groups of machines throughout the three inter- connected systems. The analytical techniques utilized to determine the adjustments will be of considerable benefit in planning future exrtensions to the interconnections and facilities within the power systems in the three provinces."
"Gradient methods are applied to load-flow studies. It is shown that these are more relevant to the problem statement than the known methods. Steepest-descent and conjugate-gradient methods are adapted, but the main point made is that the load-flow can be reformulated as an optimization problem, thereby permitting recourse to other optimization methods. The numerical results obtained imply that such reformulation may reduce the required computer time."
"The paper presents definitions prepared by the Joint Working Group on Performance Records for Optimizing System Design of the Subcommittees on Application of Probability Methods and System Planning of the IEEE Power System Engineering Committee. The purpose of the definitions is to foster uniformity and standardization of language among engineers engaged in reporting, analyzing, and predicting outages of transmission and distribution facilities and interruptions to consumers. The definitions are not intended to be specific instructions for reporting outages and interruptions, but use of standardized language should facilitate exchanges of data between engineers."
"Techniques for damping power system swings have been studied by analog and digital simulation."
"Nineteen insulation systems for form-wound motor coils were tested according to IEEE No. 275, and were successfully designated Class A, B, F, or H. Systems evaluated included mica splittings, mica papers, and non-micaceous materials in combination with resinous treatments of various kinds. It was found that not only materials, but processing procedures, have a great effect upon the thermal capability of an insulation system. Statistical techniques were used to analyze data, and it was found that excessive extrapolation can be misleading. The data presented confirm the desirability of testing at a minimum of three temperatures, one of which is within 20°C of the anticipated hot spot temperature rating. It is evident that micaceous products can be built into all temperature classes. However, the system classification of mica containing systems is dependent upon the resinous binders and processing techniques in the same manner as the non-micaceous systems."
"The effects of MMF and permeance harmonics on the N-phase to two-phase slip ring transformation are considered. Considerable simplifications occur if MMFs higher than the Nth can be neglected. Particular attention is given to both three-phase and squirrel-cage windings. Practical factors influencing the α,β,O transformation and the choice of coefficients result from the former and the basis and limitation of the harmonic equivalent circuits of the squirrel cage induction motor result from the latter."
"Transformations from the rotating reference frame of the slip-ring primitive to the quasi-stationary reference frame of the commutator primitive are developed with no limitations on winding MMF harmonics and air gap permeance harmonics other than those set by machine symmetry. The transformations are shown to reduce to Kron's classical transformation when harnonics of both MMF and permeance higher than the second are neglected."
"A high-voltage bridge suitable for measuring capacitance ratios up to a million to one is described. The high ratio is realized by cascading a two-stage current transformer to a bridge based on the current comparator principle. Circuits that compensate for the lead impedances of large capacitors are presented. The bridge is direct reading in the capacitance ratio and the dissipation factor and the uncertainties for both components are less than 10 parts per million (ppm)."
"A survey of practices of utilities in the United States was made in 1966 to determine the application of underfrequency relays to trip load during system emergencies. Questionnaires giving the philosophy of the reporting utilities are summarized."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"The Power Group is an organization of IEEE members whose principal interest is in the advancement of the science and practice of electric power generation, transmissibn, distribution, and utilization. All members of the IEEE are eligible for membership in the Group and will receive this TRANSACTIONS upon payment of the annual Group membership fee of $6.00. For information on joining, write to the IEEE at the address given."
"In surveying recovery voltage transients on several large HV networks, it was found that different transient network analyzers did not always yield consistent results. The discrepancies were found to arise from differences in representation of overhead lines by lumped components and from inaccuracy in representing the frequency-dependent resistance of the system components, especially lines and transformers."
"Surface fretting between conductor strands and support hardware plays an important part in the occurrence of conductor fatigue failures resulting from aeloian vibration. Examination of conductor strand failures from lines in service and from laboratory spans showed that fatigue cracks originated at fret marks in all cases. Laboratory fatigue tests indicate that fretting causes a reduction in the fatigue strength of conductor strands, below that of unfretted wires, by a factor of about 1.6."
"Galloping is a type of vibration that can occur when wind acts on an ice-coated conductor. Aerodynamic data from static models in wind tunnels are used in a digital computer program that calculates the wind energy input for dynamic models at their most unstable static angle of attack. Experiments at large dynamic angles of attack with models of low structural damping are suggested. The design of a full-scale experimental galloping line and its expected maximum amplitudes is also suggested for evaluation of galloping mitigative devices or clearance requirements."
"It is shown that times to flashover obtained by von Cron and Dorsh with alternating voltage on an artificially polluted insulator can be fitted into a relation ( V2-V02) t = KR2 where V is the applied voltage, t is the time to flashover, R is the resistance of pollution, and Vo and K are experimental constants. Experiments were carried out using pulse unidirectional voltage applied to a narrow conductive path of water solution of sodium chloride, and the empirical expression obtained was V2-V02) ≈ CR2L3 where L is the leakage length and C is another experimental constant. These relations are explained as results of an energy equation p·δt = e·δt whereδt at is the time required to extend the discharge by δx, p being the power available for the discharge Propagation and e the energy required to elongate the discharge by a unit length."
"One of the more difficult problems of the modeling of corporate activities is in the area of forecasting equipment retirement. This paper develops a statistical forecasting method based on an input-output model suitable for use in this particular problem as well as in similar areas. The model assumes that present output is a linear, time invariant function of current and past input values. The model parameters may be developed by employing a constrained gradient technique. The use of this method is illustrated by developing retirement frequency and survivor curves for several input-output time series of electric utility plant data. These results are obtained without the assumption of particular shapes for the retirement frequency functions. The results are compared to those obtained with more conventional techniques. This comparison leads to the conclusion that the method may be advantageously employed for retirement studies where the equipment class exhibits a very long life or where the equipment mortality characteristics do not tend to behave in a fashion that is easily anticipated."
"All the solutions for the determination of the stability of an electrical network by means of digital computers contain some approximation, because of the complexity of the system simulation. The simplifications adopted in the majority of these programs are not always justified and, therefore, the confidence in the results is not always well established. The choices made in making a new program are discussed. They are related to the network component simulation, to the numerical process, and to the program specifications."
"A method is presented for reducing the many complicated calculations of partial derivatives involved in the exact expression for incremental loss factors (that is,) needed for economic load dispatching. Calculations of the partial derivatives of voltage phase angles with respect to plant power output, which comprise the major obstacle to use of the exact expression, are avoided by digital-computer simulation of the mode of operation implied by the partial derivatives. These partial derivatives are investigated and are shown to be independent of system generation schedules and load levels. Their values may be determinied for one particular set of operating conditions and used thereafter (with the partial derivatives of total power loss with respect to voltage phase angles) to determine the most economic schedule of generation. The method gives very accurate values for the incremental loss factors for a Voltage-controlled system. For a non-voltage-controlled system, the values appear to be as accurate as those determined by B coefficients calculated by the usual tensor method."
"The influence of generator voltage regulators upon powerline stability is closely scrutinized by analog techniques. Contrary to common concepts, it is shown that high-speed control of excitation to maintain constant terminal voltage actually hampers rather than aids damping and powerline stability. It is further shown that damping and stability are greatly improved by supplementing excitation control with a specially derived function of frequency deviation. Results of the studies are verified in actual performance obtained in field tests."
"The brief description and diagrams of system arrangement will familiarize the reader with the Keystone System, an entirely new 600-mile 500-kV transmission system without series capacitors or shunt reactors. Background infornation on the relay requirements and the features of the \"local-backup\" scheme provide a basis for understanding the protection applied to the individual equipments. Of significance is the investigation of the relay communication systems and the choice of power-line carrier for this function. Transient stability studies are discussed, and the clearing times effected to best meet the high-speed tripping requirements are included. Automatic reclosing, which was designed to meet the specific system requirements, is described in some detail. The automatic oscillograph coverage outlined may be one of the first designed and applied on a system basis."
"An analysis of the major disturbances that have occurred over the past few years has demonstrated the importance of maintaining, if at all possible, continuous operation of system generating units."
"The Boundary Hydroelectric Project is described and the essential features of the electrical installation are discussed, with emphasis on generator characteristics, plant control system, and coordinated operation within the Northwest Power System."
"The availability of large digital computers has permitted more extensive computation of power system stability, a subject of increasingly greater importance. This paper suggests a common nomenclature and control system representation of the various excitation systems now available. It can be used to define input data requirements for computer programs, and can provide a consistent format in which manufacturers can respond to requests for excitation system data to be used for system studies."
"Excitation systems which utilize controlled rectifiers supplied directly from the generator terminals for the main exciter are in service at four remote generating stations. Due to the nature of the power system, these excitation systems were designed to withstand high ac overvoltages and to provide simultaneous control of a number of parallel generators. Experience in testing and operating these excitation systems is described."
"Results of tests and research are given for EHV station post insulators from 900 to 2050 BIL (basic imnpulse insulation level), including flashover and withstand on switching surge, wet and dry. Also studied are variations in withstand and flashover as the insulator height above ground is varied, as the mounting structure is changed, and as the number of insulators in parallel in the test is varied. Using the probability method of determining flashover and withstand under switching surge, it is shown that many tests and curves are needed to deternine the average value for only one set of test conditions. All tests were made outdoors and some comparisons are made with present indoor published data. Further information dealing with substation clearances in air as well as porcelain insulation will be published in the future."
"A commonly used form of harmonic filter for the ac side of mercury-arc power converters (rectifiers or inverters) consists of several series-resonant branches connected in parallel. Each branch is tuned to one of the principal harmonic frequencies generated by the converter."
"The application of a relatively simple Liapunov theorem to the stability analysis of a reluctance synchronous motor is described. The analysis proceeds as follows: 1) The differential equations representing the reluctance motor are written with the machine regarded as a group of coupled windings including time-varying self and mutual inductances. In developing these equations, it is assumed that balanced 3-phase sinusoidal voltages are applied to the stator windings and the effects of saturation, iron loss, and space harmonics in machine flux are neglected. 2) The well-known d-q transformation is used to transform the motor equations to simpler relations involving d-q variables in place of the phase voltages, currents, and flux linkages. 3) The resulting set of equations is replaced by an equivalent first-order vector system of differential equations. 4) One of the simpler theorems of Liapunov is used to predict the conditions for which asymptotic stability will occur."
"To clarify some of the variables associated with the origin and detection of cable corona, two solid dielectric cables were constructed and tested. One, with various types of corona-producing elements introduced into it, was scanned at progressively increasing voltage. Some corona elements gave signals whose intensity increased with voltage. The intensity of others changed very little, presumably because the number of discharging sites within a single element increased with voltage. This report demonstrates that the magnitude of corona signals does not have a direct relationship to the corona current being discharged. The second cable (1000 feet) was made from a number of lengths of an RG8U coaxial cable (50 ohms) connected by matched T connectors at various positions along its length. One end was connected to a spectrum analyzer, the other left open. To simulate corona, frequencies from 0 to 3 MHz were injected in tum (at each connector) through a 10-pF capacitor. The magnitude of the detector response depended on frequency, the location of the T at which the corona-simulating spectrum was injected, and total cable length."
"It is well known that when traveling waves invade a single-conductor cable whose sheath is cross-bonded, a rather high voltage is induced on the sheath circuit. Of the several experimental and theoretical examinations of this subject, most theories to date are constructed upon an idea of surge impedance. In the case of a cable circuit consisting of a conductor and sheath, this approach is imperfect since surge impedance cannot be easily defined. Using Hayashi's method, it is shown that the problem of propagation, reflection, and refraction can be uniformly calculated without employing a concept of surge impedance, and that multiple velocity waves exist on both conductor and sheath."
"Improved characteristics of modern arresters have substantially increased permissible separation distances and flexibility of arrester location in the protection of station and equipment against lightning overvoltages. This was demonstrated by investigations on representative station arrangements for 138-, 230-, and 345-kV system voltages using methods developed for evaluating the effective severity of a large variety of nonstandard wave shapes upon the different types of insulation structures."
"After mentioning different methods of testing the ability of an arrester to discharge long-duration switching surges, the artificial line discharge test with applied power frequency voltage is discussed. Oscillograms show that voltage transients during such tests may be influenced by the series gap of the test circuit. Test results agree fairly well with curves obtained from digital computations. Hence it appears justifiable to investigate by digital computations alone how test results are influenced by varying certain test- circuit parameters and the rate of rise of the arrester arc voltage. Computations were made for a 525-kV line and a modem 80 percent arrester. Particular mention is made of the disadvantage that could arise from too high a rate of rise of the arc voltage and of the fact that short lines can, in certain cases, impose a heavier duty on an arrester than longer lines."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"This page or pages intentionally left blank."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"The Power Group is an organization of IEEE members whose principal interest is in the advancement of the science and practice of electric power generation, transmissibn, distribution, and utilization. All members of the IEEE are eligible for membership in the Group and will receive this TRANSACTIONS upon payment of the annual Group membership fee of $6.00. For information on joining, write to the IEEE at the address given."
"The five conference papers listed have been accepted for IEEE Transactions on Power Apparatus and Systems and are now open for written discussion until August 25, 1968. Duplicated double-spaced typewritten copies of each discussion should be sent to: IEEE Headquarters, Technical Conference Services, 345 East 47 St., New York, NY 10017, on or before August 25, 1968."
"The power-frequency control of a multimachine power system model is investigated using combined boiler-turboalternator units interconnected with the general node equations of a transmission network. The boilers, represented by lumped energy storage elements, are combined with the turbine equations using flow- power relations associated with static operating characteristics. The alternators are represented by a linearized set of Park's equations in a form suitable for investigating the effects of voltage regulator action."
"A new method is presented for finding B coefficients expressing loss in a power system as a function of power input. The computer program necessary to find these loss (B) coefficients is very simple, and transformations of variables are not required. The method takes advantage of the fact that partial derivatives of voltage phase angles with respect to any plant power output are independent of system generation schedules and load levels, as shown in a previous paper. Many of the usual assumptions in calculating B coefficients are eliminated."
"The dynamic performance of an alternator supplying power on a dc link is put into equations, and the equation system is resolved in order to pick out the characteristic transfer functions of the dynamic behavior of the whole system. These functions have a simple literal form and are very practical for studying all problems of regulation which concern such systems of power production and transmission. The physical signification of the most important terms is given."
"A general procedure for the transformation of networks containing mutual inductive couplings into equivalent circuit systems with no mutual couplings for which the ordinary resolution methods apply is illustrated. The proposals are made a) to provide a procedure for the prompt resolution of any problems-no matter how complex-concerning networks which include inductive couplings, b) to render the treatise accessible to a large number of readers; thus, in the analytical developments, only simple algorithms are used, c) to provide the means to apply the results of the procedure without difficulty and without the need for knowledge of the demonstration, and d) to draw the specialists' attention to subjects that offer grounds for further studies and research."
"The use of digital computers to monitor kilivolt-ampere demand on distribution transformers is a relatively recent development. The development and operation of such an application are discussed. An analysis of the results and savings for the first three years of operation is presented, along with a brief summary of future plans for computer programs to aid in the design of distribution systems."
"In interconnected power system networks, for maintenance or other purposes, it is becoming increasingly necessary to observe numerous switching constraints in reorganizing the system for supply security following outages due to faults. The development of these constraints by deduction can become time consuming and tedious. This paper records the latest progress in the application of set theory to the determination of the many permissible switching operations in a small substation. The switching states, as they are called, are found by off-line digital computation from the basic constraints imposed on each switch. Digital subroutines based on Boolean and switching algebra are used. These subroutines are described in detail and the interpretation of the resulting output map containing the permitted switching sequences is given. The use of this output map by an on-line digital controller for network or substation control is discussed. It is concluded that by incorporating the proposed method with other functions which the controller could perform usefully within a power network, the risk of switching errors in a complex network can be reduced."
"A twin-stator, axial-airgap, variable-speed, eddy- current motor is described. The speed of this motor can be continuously varied by mechanically shifting one stator with respect to the other. Results of tests performed on the motor are reported, and, based on electromagnetic field theory, an approximate analysis is presented. The speed-torque characteristics obtained from theory are compared with those obtained experimentally."
"The two-phase drag-cup induction machine is analyzed using a generalized machine model and the performance equations solved by digital computer. Methods of determining machine parameters are examined and a method for experimental determination of stator to rotor mutual inductance and rotor self-inductance is developed using a procedure based on the least mean squared error criterion. Fuller and Trickey's method is used for determination of the equivalent resistance of the drag-cup rotor. Computed accelerometer sensitivity values are experimentally verified for a particular machine. The effects of machine parameters upon the magnitude of accelerometer sensitivity and upon its variation with respect to speed are studied, and qualitative conclusions drawn regarding the most suitable parameter values for satisfactory accelerometer performance. The results should provide useful guidelines in selecting a suitable induction machine for use as an accelerometer and for the use of the designer in designing a machine to have specified accelerometer characteristics."
"A 1962 paper [1] described the single-needle test, a method of electrically stressing an artificial fault in transparent insulating polymers for the purpose of evaluating the effects of additives in improving their dielectric strength and voltage life. This paper reviews developments in test procedure since that time. Oil has replaced air as an interelectrode medium. Other details of current technique are described, and some experimental phenomena are discussed."
"A new restrike-free, fast-acting, minimum oil circuit breaker for the range 60 to 500 kV is described. The breaker can be equipped with interrupters for either 40 000 or 60 000 amperes, providing a maximum symmetrical interrupting capacity of 50 000 MVA. Of the modular type, it is built from self-contained, identical, and interchangeable basic building elements. Arcing time is virtually independent of the interrupted current, an achievement attributed to an effective oil injection. Fully hydraulic operation of the contacts eliminates the use of mechanical transmission and springs. Test results are summarized that confirm that the breaker's performance exceeds standard requirements. Of particular interest is its insensitivity to high rates of recovery voltage."
"A basis is given for the formulas and charts included in the IEEE Committee Report, Guide for Calculating Losses in Isolated Phase Bus."
"Trigatron breakdown characteristics were studied in atmospheric air for gaps up to 15 cm in length. Under negative impulse voltages with a positive trigger pulse applied in the grounded electrode, the minimum breakdown values corresponded closely to the negative sphere-rod gap breakdown values. While under positive impulses the trigatron broke down at approximately the same voltages as the positive sphere-rod gaps. The low breakdown in trigatrons under negative impulse voltages was preceded by a positive leader identical to that observed in positive sphere-rod gaps. The higher breakdowns under the positive voltages resulted from a negative leader. The results suggest that the space charge from the auxiliary spark distorts the initially uniform field in the gap and the breakdown follows the nonuniform field breakdown mechanism."
"Switching surge field tests were performed on a 292- mile 345-kV transmission system. Switching of lines and connected transformers resulted in surges in excess of twice normal voltage under certain conditions. Trapped charge decay on the shunt compensated lines was of such duration as to have a direct influence on high-speed reclosing transients. A number of field test conditions were reproduced on a transient network analyzer (TNA), and examples of field results and TNA results are illustrated, showing very good correlation."
"The influence of overhead ground wires on the corona losses, RI, and telephone interference of dc lines was studied. Corona losses and RI were measured on a full-scale bipolar test line. Corona losses were measured on laboratory models of monopolar, homopolar, and bipolar lines. Telephone interference levels were calculated. Experimental and calculated results are presented."
"Techniques are presented for the estimation of service interruptions initiated in the distribution system. Average service interruption rates and restoration times are calculated from failure rate and repair time data for equipment and lines. A quantitative method is suggested for evaluating the economic consequences of service interruptions. Calculations of reliability performance and its economic consequences are made for representative distribution circuits."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"This page or pages intentionally left blank."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"The Power Group is an organization of IEEE members whose principal interest is in the advancement of the science and practice of electric power generation, transmissibn, distribution, and utilization. All members of the IEEE are eligible for membership in the Group and will receive this TRANSACTIONS upon payment of the annual Group membership fee of $6.00. For information on joining, write to the IEEE at the address given."
"When synchronous machine transients in an extensive system are to be accurately calculated, many problems arise for which the information required to resolve them is not available. The resulting accuracy will depend upon the assumptions used not only in the development of the machine model but also in the way in which the incomplete model is solved. The primary problems involve the manner in which the machine terminal relations are related to those of the system and in the handling of the various torques produced in the transient operation. The state of the art of machine analysis is now such that synchronous machine transients are fairly well understood and calculations may be reasonably comprehensive. The system representation is, however, not capable of accepting the information available from the machine with the result that a satisfactory marriage is difficult. Some of the inadequacies of large scale stability analysis as it now exists and some of the precautions and planning that should be observed before embarking upon extensive studies or in drawing conclusions from such studies are covered here, in a philosophic and general manner."
"A synchronous machine with a fault in its armature winding may be represented by an equivalent circuit in three symmetrical components. The line and neutral terminals of the equivalent circuit are connected to a system network in each sequence. The fault point of the positive sequence is connected to the neutral of the negative sequence, and so forth, representing a single phase- to-ground, or turn-to-turn, fault. Electromotive forces behind the corresponding reactance are introduced in every branch of the positive-sequence network of the faulty machine and an equivalent electromotive force of the system is considered. The resulting network consists of three loops with four electromotive forces. The calculation of the current flow in this network is programmed for solution on the IBM-7090 digital computer."
"Long distance EHV transmission and generator installations at remote locations have intensified stability problems. Transmission necessary to improve stability is expensive. Single- pole switching is being reviewed as an altemate. Phase-to-ground fault current in the open phase of the line is reduced by reactor compensation to make arc extinction possible. A means for increasing the line capability when one phase is open is investigated. The effectiveness is analyzed in detail using a digital computer."
"Sensitivity is defined as the ratio Δx/Δy relating small changes Δx of some dependent variable to small changes Δy of some independent or controllable variable y. In power systems, two dominant types of sensitivity relations are defined, namely 1) sensitivity of one electrical variable, such as the voltage VI at node i, with respect to another electrical variable, such as reactive production Qj at node j, and 2) sensitivity of the operating cost F with respect to such electrical variables as the consumption CI at node i and the production Pj at node j."
"A digital computer study of synchronous generators which aims to optimize transient stability is described. Mathematical modeling checked by site tests is used, and alternative excitation controls are investigated. It is shown that the appropriate excitation control can produce substantial positive damping of rotor angle excursion without prejudice to the automatic voltage control."
"This method determines inherent transient recovery voltages on power systems using the state space approach. The impedance parameter, viewed from a pair of electrodes or terminals of the circuit breaker, is given as a ratio of two determinants in complex frequencies by means of the Laplace transformation of the system of differential equations with respect to loop currents of the network. The fundamental differential equations are derived from the impedance, resistance, and elastance matrices by the topological method with a transformation tensor, generated by a computer using connection data. Characteristic polynomials of the denominator and the numerator of the impedance parameter are easily factored using eigenvalues. Transient responses of the transient recovery voltages are obtained by applying the inverse transformation of the product of the impedance parameter and a fault-current function in complex frequencies, or by using the convolution integral of the indicial or impulse response and an arbitrary fault current in the time domain. The frequencies and the damping constants of the transient recovery voltages are obtained from the eigenvalues of the characteristic polynomials of the impedance parameter. Other characteristic values of the transient recovery voltages, such as the rate of rise of restriking voltage (rrrv), etc., can be derived from the oscillogram or waveshape of the transient responses. This method is simple, accurate, and effective when used with a large-scale, high-speed digital computer."
"In the continuous-enclosure type isolated-phase bus, the enclosure current in amperes is very nearly equal to the conductor current. It lags the conductor current by somewhat less than 180°. The external flux is relatively small, and any induction heating in material or induced volts in instrument or control circuits adjacent to the bus will be negligible. Methods for determining the actual current in the enclosure and the external magnetic field are developed in this paper."
"Surge voltage measurements were performed at twenty-six 230- and 115-kV transformer stations. Individual measuring periods varied from four months to 12 years; the number of measuring locations ranged from 1 to 55. From several thousand klydonograph records it is concluded that in systems with operating voltages up to 230 kV and in areas with an isokeraunic level of 20 to 30, lightning is the main cause of surges in high-voltage stations. Information is derived on the effects of surge attenuation as well as the number and lightning outage rate of transmission lines terminating at a station. One direct lightning stroke to a large station must be expected every one to two years, justifying the shielding of such stations."
"The results of loss measurements on an isolated-phase bus are recorded and compared with values calculated by a proposed guide [1]. The calorimetric test method is described."
"The proposed guide forms a useful document for those responsible for evaluating losses in isolated-phase bus. The Working Group plans two modifications in the final version of the guide. The first is an extension of Fig. 1 to make it more useful in the calculation of skin effect of very large enclosures. The second modification will be the inclusion of an empirical formula for more accurate determination of the K factor to be used in determining losses in continuous bus enclosures. The fomula will be based on test data reported in [6]."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"The Power Group is an organization of IEEE members whose principal interest is in the advancement of the science and practice of electric power generation, transmissibn, distribution, and utilization. All members of the IEEE are eligible for membership in the Group and will receive this TRANSACTIONS upon payment of the annual Group membership fee of $6.00. For information on joining, write to the IEEE at the address given."
"This is the first of a series of papers that will explore, in depth, the heat transfer phenomena associated with the operation of distribution transforners in subsurface vaults. In it, the differences between vault and pole-top environments and the effects of these differences on transformer loadability are discussed. Heat transfer phenomena in the vault environment are described qualitatively, and the need for a general study to permit quantitative analysis is indicated. The plan of attack on the problem is described, and some conclusions are drawn from work already completed."
"The transient thennal response of buried distribution transformers is analyzed by use of a lumped-parameter model. Curves are presented which show the temperatures in the transformer r during startup and continuous running with typical load cycles, steady loads, and step loads. The effects of earth conductivity y and radiation barriers are considered. Temperatures, time constants, and convection coefficients are found to agree well with experimental measurements."
"A digest is given of the progressive versions of joint control systems developed and supplied by the Woodward Governor Company leading up to the latest version. In the analysis of these systems, the weaknesses and limitations of the preceding systems and the improvements in the succeeding systems are revealed."
"When the improvements in extra-high- oltage power circuit breakers now being studied are realized in practice, over- voltages caused by energization or reenergization of lines can be made so low that the limiting factor determining how much the line insulation may be reduced might become the overvoltage produced by single line-to-ground faults. On lines insulated for levels below twice the normal line-to-ground crest voltage, such faults could develop into double line-to-ground faults, which would be particularly objectionable if single-pole switching were to be employed."
"A new method is described which determines the optimum number, location, and size of shunt capacitors in a radial distribution feeder with discrete lumped loads so as to maximize overall savings, including the cost of capacitors. The method also determines when capacitors are not economically justified. Dynamic programming techniques are used and several algorithms developed to obtain the optimal solution by regarding the optimization process as a multistage decision process with the desired Markovian property. Special cases are studied and solutions obtained when no capacitor cost, cost proportional to installed capacity, and cost proportional to installed capacity plus a fixed cost per installed bank are considered. The methods are suitable for efficient solution in a digital computer."
"Two sets of dig-in tests on sodium conductor, polyethylene thylene insulated cables were made by the Commonwealth Edison Company. The first series of tests was made on de-energized 15-kV and 600-volt cables using both power machinery and hand tools. About one year later, a second series of dig-in tests was made on 600-volt cables energized at 120/240 alternating volts, using three types of power machinery."
"The Constitution and Bylaws provide a basis for the government and administration of the Power Group as a voluntary organization of members of IEEE interested in the art and science of electric power production and transportation. A representative form of government and administration is provided, to be conducted by delegates, officers, and administrators chosen directly or indirectly by the membership of the Group."
"Normal voltage dividers for high-voltage impulses are connected to the test object by an open air line which, when considered as part of the measuring system, gives an initially low input impedance to that measuring system due to the characteristic impedance of the line. This initially low impedance has been over- come by building a divider which can be used as an attenuator probe connected directly to the point on the test object at which the voltage is to be measured. By having the probe at a distance from the ground plane, the input capacitance can be kept low, thus allowing the probe to have a shorter rise time. Examples of results are given."
"As a goal, the evaluation and computation of electric power system reliability requires that a consistent technique be used for all portions-generation, transmission, and distribution. At present, a number of different methods are used for the generation system, while the frequency and duration of outages seems to be developing as a standard measure for the analysis of the distribution system. This paper and a subsequent one will present a reliability calculation method for the generation system that incorporates the frequency and duration of unit outages and includes consideration of the loads. This method leads to calculated generation reliability measures which are the availability, frequency of occurence, and mean duration of reserve states. These are cumulative states in that they specify system reserve conditions of a given magnitude or less. This paper is concerned with the procedure for calculating the availability, frequency, and outage duration for a number of generating units connected in parallel to form a single system. Numerical data are used to illustrate the technique and make comparisons with other methods."
"A new method for estimation of the reliability of generation supply in a single compact system or in an interconnected system is described. Measures of reliability calculated using the new method are 1) capacity deficiency rate, 2) expected duration of capacity deficient period, and 3) \"loss-of-load probability.\""
"A theory of nonlinear commutating machines is presented that is applicable to all machines whose inductance coefficients are restricted to single-valued nonlinear functions of the electric currents in addition to the brush and rotor positions. The development is suggested by elementary Finsler theory. With this new approach, machine equations are easily derived in terms of functions which can be firmly related to the electrical-mechanical structure and the terminal characteristics. The theory is applied to a representative nonlinear commutating machine to illustrate its use."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"This page or pages intentionally left blank."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"Organic materials used as high-voltage electrical insulation are altered chemically and physically by corona discharges. The basic behavior of polyolefin and fluorocarbon resins were investigated under conditions of high electrical stress. The presence of corona subjects a material to ozone, acid, ultraviolet light, and bombardment by electrons and ions. Degradation under these conditions is usually confined to the surface rather than the bulk of the material. The surface may be the outer surface of the material or the inside face of voids within the material. The present study includes the identification of by-products such as, for example, oxalic acid, which is found on the surface of polyethylene subjected to corona in the presence of humidity. The kinds of failure, cracking or erosion, and the effects of a number of variables including mechanical strain and humidity are presented. Also included is a discussion of electrical failures between the points of sharp needles imbedded opposite each other in a solid. Dendritic channels initiated by corona bombardment at the interface between the tip of one of the needles and the solid polymer slowly progress across the gap. The rate of dendrite growth is related to the gas pressure generated within the dendrite."
"It is shown that perfect insulators must have perpendicular intersections of the Cole-Cole diagram with the ε' axis. This perpendicularity is found for several distributions of relaxation times, but not for some empirically derived approximations. The Cole-Cole diagrams for these distributions are discussed and compared. The intersections with the ε' axis occur at zero and infinite frequency. The introduction of dc conductivity in the perfect dielectric makes it a pseudo-insulator. At high frequencies these materials have a Cole-Cole diagram similar to that of a perfect dielectric, but in the low-frequency range large deviations occur and no intersection with the real axis can occur at zero frequency."
"This paper summarizes the results of a functional life testing program conducted over a period of several years on low voltage resin encapsulated electronic transformers. The program was designed to establish how much environmental factors, such as thermal cycling, humidity, vibration, cold shock, overvoltage, and method of heating the units, affected the life of the units in thermally accelerated aging tests. It was concluded that thermal cycling was the most important factor influencing the life, which was usually terminated by a turn or layer-to-layer short circuit. It was further concluded that oven heating gave very similar results to internal circulating current heating of the windings. An important result of these tests was that this system, which incorporated a cellulose paper layer insulation, usually considered 110°C class layer insulation proved to have life values corresponding to a 130 to 155°C class system. This reemphasizes that temperature ratings of apparatus with composite insulation should be made on the basis of system performance rather than individual material performance. The life of the transformers followed the Arrhenius log life versus reciprocal Kelvin temperature relation."
"There are many kinds of tracking resistance test methods which may be classified into two groups: wet and dry. In the wet methods, the tracking phenomenon seems inevitably to be affected by the artificial contamination, so the dry method which does not use the artificial contamination may be regarded more suitable than the wet method for the purpose of defining the tracking property. However, the dry methods developed up to this time use relatively high electric voltages, and the form of discharge used in the test is somewhat different from that in actual tracking. So, it is desirable to reduce the testing voltage to get tracking resistance by the dry methods. We have developed a new dry method in which a test voltage less than 1000 volts dc is employed. In our method, the third electrode, the so-called trigger electrode, is inserted between the pair of main electrodes, and the discharge at low voltage between the main electrodes is induced by the small-trigger discharge between the trigger electrode and one of the main electrodes. In our method, it becomes possible to differentiate the tracking resistances of some of those materials whose tracking resistances were not hitherto discriminated by the high voltage test; and some of those materials, which show erosion in the IEC method, show tracking failure by our method. Furthermore, our method provides good reproducibility in results, a rather simple arrangement, and a much shorter time required for testing, than for the IEC method."
"The broad aspects of an approach to corona testing of components are presented. These involve selection of a testing system consistent with the electrical properties of the component, comparison of results with expected voltage levels in service, interpretation of corona indications, elimination of corona where necessary, and accelerated life testing for establishment or confirmation of relationships between corona observations and life. Examples are given. Observations and interpretation of corona do not provide a cure-all for dielectric problems but they are useful tools in solving many problems."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"Three test methods that attempt to simulate the surface discharge conditions that exist on outdoor insulation are compared to each other and to one set of outdoor test results. The materials that are used for this comparison are filled and unfilled epoxide resins cured with acid anhydrides. Laboratory data for several other kinds of dielectric material also are included."
"The subject of this paper is the effect of partial discharges in a void on the performance of epoxy resin insulation. Theoretical and experimental investigations are reported that seek a relationship between measurable electrical quantities and a possible breakdown of the insulation. All experiments were done under controlled conditions with samples of quartz-power filled and unfilled epoxy resin containing an artificial void of known cylindical shape and dimensions. The test specimen and the measuring circuits are described. Theoretical considerations of the equivalent circuit of the test circuit indicate that the charge fed into the specimen per pulse and the discharge power are independent of the external circuit. The electric charge and power fed into the specimen are appropriate fundamental quantities for the assessment of the pulse-type process. The theory was confirmed by measurements. It was found that the power consumed by the internal partial discharges up to a breakdown could be measured by two independent methods. Experimental results of long-time aging investigations with alternating current voltage are reported. Partial discharges in voids in epoxy resin insulation subjected to long-term voltage stressing can lead to breakdown of the insulation. The period of time of voltage application to a test specimen can be divided into two characteristic intervals, which were of different duration in the filled and unfilled resins. During the first interval, all important corona quantities (i. e., corona charge, discharge current, power and radio interference voltage) remain either constant or decrease."
"An experimental study of the electrical properties of energy storage capacitors utilizing Mylarl polyester films has shown how the weight and volume of such capacitors could be reduced while improving reliability and energy density. Test data relate the lifetime of a capacitor to its operating voltage, discharge frequency, and temperature. The effect on life of percent current reversal and dielectric film thickness is also demonstrated. The results should enable capacitor designers to tailor products to specific applications, thereby achieving optimum performance."
"This paper deals with the stator winding insulation primarily of water-wheel generators and experience in Norway with this important part of rotating machines. Until 1962, first shellac, and later asphalt bonded micafolium were used as ground insulation of high-voltage machines. In 1962, a new insulation system based on a mica-splitting tape with modified polyester resin as impregnant was introduced. The advantages of this new system include high mechanical strength at elevated temperatures and superior thermal endurance characteristics. The system also has proved to be practically noninflammable, which could justify omission of the automatic fire-extinguishing equipment normally used nowadays to protect generators against fire. In spite of higher material costs, the overall price of the new system compares favorably with the old systems. The reason for this is that the new system has only a few different materials, the materials are easy to handle, and the production process is simple and easy to control. The new insulation system is being used today in Norway for all machine ratings above 500 kVA and all voltages above 3 kV."
"Materials used in laminated circuit boards must be dimensionally stable at elevated operating temperatures and tough at room temperature to be cold-punchable. Certain polymeric materials with two or more thermal transitions have the desired combination of properties. Two novel methods for determining these transitions were developed. The first utilizes a single cured lamination of the circuit board material in low-frequency dynamic mechanical studies in the temperature range from - 180°C to + 200°C. It is useful in predicting the role of plasticizer content in improving punchability. The second method involves determination of the crack arrest temperature of the complete laminate. It is a close analog to cold punching and can be used to predict safe punching temperatures. Both methods have been correlated with a visual examination of the cold-punched laminates. Two of the transitions observed by dynamic mechanical property studies were substantiated by differential thermal analysis measurements."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"The resistance of epoxide resins to electrical discharges varies from poor to excellent depending upon the basic resin type and the associated hardener and accelerator. Fillers also have a marked influence on system performance. Epoxides show the greatest promise of the synthetic organic materials available at this time for use under electrical stress outdoors, particularly when the physical properties are considered. The general considerations covering the planning of an outdoor test station and the design of specimens are explained, as well as a general discussion of the results so far obtained at 0.5 and 1.0 kV/in. It has been found that trihydrated alumina is the best antitracking and erosion filler and that plaster of paris causes mechanical failure of the system. Of the resins tested, the cycloaliphatic types, which are now more flexible than when they were originally introduced, are by far the best for outdoor insulators."
"Most aging phenomena are temperature dependent as indicated by the Arrhenius equation. Knowledge of probable aging rates is necessary for practical engineering design of equipment, and aging rates of many electrical insulation systems have been studied in detail. Service life expectancies can therefore be confidently estimated for particular insulation systems in specific thermal environments. However, it is not possible to assure that all electrical equipments will be operated within the design environments and ratings. Thus, variations in service life performance of electrical equipments often reflect variations in operating conditions. It has not been economically feasible to measure actual conditions of use and exposure of most electrical equipments. An inexpensive monitor of thermal exposures has been recently developed. The resistance changes of bimetallic elements are in accord with the Arrhenius model for normal diffusion. Selection of metals that interdiffuse with temperature sensitivity equivalent to that of an insulation system of known thermal aging behavior allows use of the bimetallic diffusion couple as an indirect monitor of the actual insulation thermal degradation. A preferred form of the bimetal is a composite wire, comprising alternate concentric layers of two pure metals. The diffusion couple must be placed in a location which exhibits a representative, if not identical, thermal exposure of the insulation system to be monitored. The monitors may be \"built-in\" and read in-situ or they may be inserted as replaceable probes which can be retrieved and returned to a central test facility for evaluation."
"Transformers with a variety of chemically treated insulating papers are being offered for 65°C operation. However, there are no industry standards for qualifying treated insulation for the new rating and it is impossible to compare the performance of different brands of insulation on the basis of published literature because of differences in the test conditions. A laboratory method, for evaluating the thermal stability of insulating paper, is presented that measures the performance at various stages of deterioration, makes direct numerical comparisons, and can be used to establish specifications for the treated paper used to build 65°C-rise transformers. Insulating paper is aged in oil in a sealed cylinder in the presence of copper, iron, and carefully controlled amounts of oxygen and water. Deterioration, as measured by loss in tensile and bursting strength, is plotted against time for each temperature. Insulation life is then plotted as a function of temperature. Evolution of gases is also measured. Tests indicate there are significant differences in the performance of the brands of treated insulation tested. The effects of water, oxygen, and competitive brands of transformer oil on insulation life can be studied independently."
"Methods are described for measuring intrinsic dielectric properties of wire enamels and wire enamel-varnish combinations in controlled environments. Random wound bifilar coils serve as test specimens and environment control is achieved by suspending these coils in a pressure tube connected to a gas handling system. Dielectric properties have been measured at pressures ranging from vacuum to 32 atmospheres and at temperatures from -40° to 350°C. Typical results are reported which illustrate utility of the apparatus and procedures. The importance of measuring dielectric properties at elevated temperatures is stressed and a method for establishing a practical thermal limit tmax is described. It is demonstrated that in a controlled environment, tmax, is a characteristic intrinsic property of an insulating material. Interpretation of typical conductance-temperature data according to the theory of rate processes, suggests that tmax corresponds to a temperature at which the polymer undergoes significant changes in viscoelastic behavior. There is evidence that the mechanism of ac conductance below tmax is by polarization, while above tmax conductance results from ion movement. The influence on tmax of degree of cure, frequency of the applied voltage, and nature of the atmosphere surrounding the insulating material, is discussed."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Pulse-discharge loss in oxygen was studied between metallic electrodes under ac stress at atmospheric pressure, and it was found to be a linear function of both the applied voltage and discharge rate. This linear dependence resulted, in part, directly from the quasi-linear variation of the discharge rate with applied voltage. Over the spark-gap lengths extending from 0.10 to 0.50 mm, the pulse-discharge loss increased linearly with the gap length."
"The objective of the work reported in this paper was to study the influence of the thickness of the paper mass and of the inner temperature distribution on the vacuum drying process; particularly to study the ways in which these two factors affect the quantitative distribution of residual moisture perpendicular to the layers of the paper. The quantitative distributions of residual moisture perpendicular to the layers in soft paper masses 0.3 to 2.4 cm thick were determined. The results show that both the magnitude and distribution of temperature throughout the paper affect the degree of drying. Neither a low vacuum nor a prolonged drying time will compensate for an unfavorable temperature distribution. The magnitude and distribution of temperature predominate over the effect of paper thickness. With unfavorable temperature conditions, paper only 0.6 cm thick will retain an excessive amount of moisture. With favorable temperature conditions, paper 2.4 cm thick can be dried under vacuum to an acceptable moisture content. The upper limit of residual moisture content for transformer insulating paper that can reasonably be expected to be achieved is about 0.5 percent, not 0.1 percent or less."
"The resistance to internal discharges of different materials is determined in samples with artificial cavities, the samples being composed of films of the material studied. Reasons are given why acceleration by increased stress is preferred to that by increased frequency. A relationship voltage life versus stress is given."
"This index covers all technical items - papers, correspondence, reviews, etc. - that appeared in this periodical during the year, and items from previous years that were commented upon or corrected in this year. Departments and other items may also be covered if they have been judged to have archival value. The Author Index contains the primary entry for each item, listed under the first author's name. The primary entry includes the coauthors' names, the title of the paper or other item, and its location, specified by the publication abbreviation, year, month, and inclusive pagination. The Subject Index contains entries describing the item under all appropriate subject headings, plus the first author's name, the publication abbreviation, month, and year, and inclusive pages. Note that the item title is found only under the primary entry in the Author Index."
"This index covers all technical items - papers, correspondence, reviews, etc. - that appeared in this periodical during the year, and items from previous years that were commented upon or corrected in this year. Departments and other items may also be covered if they have been judged to have archival value. The Author Index contains the primary entry for each item, listed under the first author's name. The primary entry includes the coauthors' names, the title of the paper or other item, and its location, specified by the publication abbreviation, year, month, and inclusive pagination. The Subject Index contains entries describing the item under all appropriate subject headings, plus the first author's name, the publication abbreviation, month, and year, and inclusive pages. Note that the item title is found only under the primary entry in the Author Index."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"A new model of the human operator, termed the surge model, is developed. It is dual mode, containing a linearized constant coefficient model and an optimum second-order controller model. The equations describing its performance are written in the time domain. When the absolute values of the system error and of the first error derivative are less than certain specified bounds, the linear constant coefficient model is employed; and when the absolute values of the system error and of the first error derivative exceed these bounds, the optimum second-order controller model is employed. The surge model accurately predicts actual human operator performance in situations where the present widely used constant coefficient models yield unrealistic results, namely, when the signal being tracked contains discontinuous as well as continuous components, of either a random or a predictable nature. An Applied Dynamics 256 analog computer and a Control Data 3600 digital computer were employed, respectively, to simulate a real-time tracking problem and to solve the surge model equations characterizing the tracking task. Results presented in graphical form clearly indicate the superiority of the surge model in simulating tracking situations where discontinuities may occur."
"Two possible types of keyboard input to a central processor are 1) short codes consisting of combinations of characters extracted from several descriptors, and 2) somewhat longer literal codes where words are spelled letter for letter. The literature indicates that performance should be faster and more accurate with the short combination codes than with the literal type of codes, both codes having equal information content. Three comparisons were made of input speed and accuracy using these two code types with telephone directory listings. Performance was faster with the combination code than with the literal code, both containing 17.1 bits. No difference in performance existed between operators using only the literal code and those selecting and using either the literal code or one of the two shorter codes, each code containing 17.1 to 18.5 bits."
"A model of human operator behavior is presented based on the following assumptions: that the input and output are quantized into a limited number of states and that data processing is performed on asynchronous samples of this coarsely quantized input, i.e., that the human operator behaves as a finite-state machine. A hybrid element or hybrid actuator is used to achieve a continuous variation of output position."
"A model of the neuromuscular system based on the physiology of muscle is described. All elements of the model have been discussed in earlier literature but certain new implications are considered here."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"IEEE Transactions on Man-Machine Systems is published to promote the dissemination of concepts, methods of experiment, results, and applications to design pertaining to man-machine systems. This includes the following areas: Continuous manual control of vehicles and industrial processes; basic motor skills. Man-computer decision making; computer displays and input techniques; user-oriented languages; computer-aided instruction. Communication devices and techniques in normal and unusual environments; applied sensory research; signal detection and pattern recognition. System simulation and design; training of operators; operator performance in vigilance and monitoring tasks; maintenance and reliability techniques. Large-scale man-machine systems; consumer preference evaluation techniques; accident prevention and safety. Acceptable papers may range from mathematical modeling and computer simulation, through laboratory experimentation, to system design and field evaluation. Papers describing successful application of conventional theory and techniques in conventional problem areas ordinarily are not acceptable. Papers previously published in journals of wide public circulation are not acceptable. First priority will be given to papers in areas of current interest that contribute original ideas soundly presented. Tutorial or review papers in such areas are also welcome. Each paper is normally submitted to three referees, either members of the editorial board or others, who, in the opinion of the Editor, are recognized experts in fields appropriate to the particular paper. A referee is at liberty to disqualify himself and suggest another whom he considers more suitable. Short communications are encouraged. These may be abbreviated papers, relevant comments on other papers published in this TRANSACTIONS, authors' rebuttals to same, or letters to the Editor. Reviews of appropriate new books are also solicited."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Lists the institutions that support this publication."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"In this paper, a method for systematically assessing multidimensional situations is developed. More precisely, the psychophysical method of \"interpolation between the corners\" suggested by Yntema and Torgerson is formalized. It is proven that, subject to von Neumann and Morgenstern's axioms of \"rational behavior\" and the quasi-separability assumptions, the utility (or worth) of a multidimensional situation may be evaluated from sums and products of the utilities of single-dimensional situations. After developing the necessary methodology, a hypothetical problem is considered in order to illustrate the use of this approach and to indicate its potential for applications."
"A driver's inability to detect small headway changes and small relative velocities is a primary reason for his poor car-following performance. This can be greatly improved if he is given information-headway and relative velocity-concerning the state of a lead car. This may be provided visually, tactually, or audibly. In the study reported, a control stick with a built-in kinesthetictactile display was tested in a car-following situation. Performances with this display were compared to those obtained when no aiding was used in a similar situation. Sizable reductions in velocity variance and headway variance were obtained for the aided case relative to the unaided case. These were obtained for headways of 23 feet at 30 mi/h and 33 feet at 40 mi/h. Thus, this display can be effectively used at short headways."
"A stochastic model of human learning behavior in a manual control task is described. Regulation of the state of a double integral plant to minimize the integrated absolute error is the operator's task. Subjects given this task were instructed to drive the process from an initial state to the null state using a two-position relay controller and a visual display. A subject is conceptualized in the model as a sequential data-processing system. A sensor, a decision maker, and an effector are the three serially connected components making up the system. Each element requires a finite time to either process or transmit information, and thus a delay is incurred between the reception of the visual stimulus and the execution of a motor response. Response decisions are based on the a priori estimate of the probability that the control polarity should be switched, given the current state of the plant. Patterns in the resultant phase trajectory are used as evidence by the decision maker to revise the prior estimate with an algorithm according to Bayes' theorem. Behavior of this model is compared with subject behavior in the motor skill experiment, and the model's characterization of the time-varying random nature of human learning is brought out by this comparison. Also discussed are the applications of the concept of this model to other manual control tasks."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"IEEE Transactions on Man-Machine Systems is published to promote the dissemination of concepts, methods of experiment, results, and applications to design pertaining to man-machine systems. This includes the following areas: Continuous manual control of vehicles and industrial processes; basic motor skills. Man-computer decision making; computer displays and input techniques; user-oriented languages; computer-aided instruction. Communication devices and techniques in normal and unusual environments; applied sensory research; signal detection and pattern recognition. System simulation and design; training of operators; operator performance in vigilance and monitoring tasks; maintenance and reliability techniques. Large-scale man-machine systems; consumer preference evaluation techniques; accident prevention and safety. Acceptable papers may range from mathematical modeling and computer simulation, through laboratory experimentation, to system design and field evaluation. Papers describing successful application of conventional theory and techniques in conventional problem areas ordinarily are not acceptable. Papers previously published in journals of wide public circulation are not acceptable. First priority will be given to papers in areas of current interest that contribute original ideas soundly presented. Tutorial or review papers in such areas are also welcome. Each paper is normally submitted to three referees, either members of the editorial board or others, who, in the opinion of the Editor, are recognized experts in fields appropriate to the particular paper. A referee is at liberty to disqualify himself and suggest another whom he considers more suitable. Short communications are encouraged. These may be abbreviated papers, relevant comments on other papers published in this TRANSACTIONS, authors' rebuttals to same, or letters to the Editor. Reviews of appropriate new books are also solicited."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Lists the institutions that support this publication."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"It is well known that there is an error in identifying the pilot describing function from routine flight test records because the pilot's output noise is correlated with the input error signal. This paper shows that this identification error can be reduced in the computer processing by shifting the input signal an amount equivalent to the pilot's time delay. This technique for reducing the identification error is analyzed with theory and is demonstrated with the identification of a simulated pilot model. This technique is also applied to flight test records obtained from the retrofire phase of the Gemini X mission."
"A manual control technique is described in which the force and position cues experienced by the operator from his control stick provide information relevant to the control problem. By constructing the operator's control stick in the form of a mechanical analog of the system being controlled, the apparent complexity of the control task is decreased and control performance is improved. Experimental results are included that compare performance of an operator controlling a second order system in a compensatory control task using both conventional control methods and the matched manipulator technique."
"Recently, both high quality physiological data and human-operator-describing function data of low variability and large dynamic range have become available. These data lead to control engineering descriptions for neuromuscular actuation systems that are compatible with the available data and that provide insight into the overall human control structure (e.g., the types of feedback systems used for various inputs). In this paper, some of these physiological and human-operator data are briefly reviewed, and a simple neuromuscular actuation system model is presented. The physiological data of interest include recent anatomical and physiological data for the muscle spindle and input-output studies of the muscle. These data indicate that simple linear models can describe the basic behavior of these two elements in tracking tasks. This paper contains two key developments: 1) the variation in system parameters as a function of average muscle tension or operating point; and 2) the role of the muscle spindle both as an equalization element and in its effects on muscle tone or average tension. The simplest neuromuscular model suggested by and compatible with the data is one in which muscle spindles provide four functions in one entity: 1) the feedback of limb position; 2) lead/lag series equalization; 3) the source of at least one command signal to the system; and 4) a signal for adjustment of the spindle gain, equalization, and steady-state spindle output which produces the average muscle tension."
"A modular 3-D mockup technique was developed as a method for economizing and facilitating the design of control and display equipment. The integral parts of the mockup include modular easy-to-assemble console bays and panels (dimensioned after standard sizes and increments thereof for flexibility), simulated magnetic backed 3-D controls and displays of actual size, various writing shelf configurations, fast assembly clamps, storage cabinet with casters, Polaroid camera, etc. Human engineering constraints were designed into the mockup parts (i.e., optimum reach, height, view and control limits) so that the designers could not deviate from human engineering inputs, facilitating optimum operating conditions."
"Carbonell [1] recently proposed an economic model of a pilot's visual sampling behavior based on queueing theory. The results of a validation study of this model have been completed. This validation was based on instrument data and eye-movement data taken during mission flights using a Link trainer. The results of the simulation using the queueing model are shown to correlate well with eye-movement data. Characteristics of the model and results of the validation study are presented here, and suggestions for further work are discussed."
"The US national program in highway and motor vehicle safety has provided a new stimulus to human factors research by agencies of the Federal Government. As early as 1957, McFarland and Moore described areas of application of this discipline in a series of articles entitled, \"Human Factors in Highway Safety\". An important area included in their list was the protection of occupants of a motor vehicle from injury during a crash. This paper will describe some results of human factors research in motor vehicle occupant restraint systems by the Office of Vehicle Systems Research in the National Bureau of Standards."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"IEEE Transactions on Man-Machine Systems is published to promote the dissemination of concepts, methods of experiment, results, and applications to design pertaining to man-machine systems. This includes the following areas: Continuous manual control of vehicles and industrial processes; basic motor skills. Man-computer decision making; computer displays and input techniques; user-oriented languages; computer-aided instruction. Communication devices and techniques in normal and unusual environments; applied sensory research; signal detection and pattern recognition. System simulation and design; training of operators; operator performance in vigilance and monitoring tasks; maintenance and reliability techniques. Large-scale man-machine systems; consumer preference evaluation techniques; accident prevention and safety. Acceptable papers may range from mathematical modeling and computer simulation, through laboratory experimentation, to system design and field evaluation. Papers describing successful application of conventional theory and techniques in conventional problem areas ordinarily are not acceptable. Papers previously published in journals of wide public circulation are not acceptable. First priority will be given to papers in areas of current interest that contribute original ideas soundly presented. Tutorial or review papers in such areas are also welcome. Each paper is normally submitted to three referees, either members of the editorial board or others, who, in the opinion of the Editor, are recognized experts in fields appropriate to the particular paper. A referee is at liberty to disqualify himself and suggest another whom he considers more suitable. Short communications are encouraged. These may be abbreviated papers, relevant comments on other papers published in this TRANSACTIONS, authors' rebuttals to same, or letters to the Editor. Reviews of appropriate new books are also solicited."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Lists the institutions that support this publication."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"This paper presents an illustrative application of a theory for manual control displays to the instrument landing approach of a large subsonic jet transport. A methodical procedure is disclosed for formulation of compensatory display-control systems. Manual approach height and lateral position control are treated in multiloop dynamic analyses so as to select preferred variables for measurement and display. Closed-loop system performance and pilot scanning and workload measures are also evaluated. The example concludes with the \"prediction\" of a preferred display arrangement. Comparison with an FAA Category II instrument panel arrangement selected by an air line operating the example aircraft shows the predictions to be remarkably accurate."
"Human pilot adaptation in a simulated multiloop VTOL hovering task was investigated with a series-loop-closure model. Using the model equations, the pilot-model adaptable parameters were computed from rms hovering performance data measured in flight simulator experiments for a variety of VTOL aircraft configurations. Variations in the aircraft configurations affected both the aircraft's dynamic characteristics and its response to simulated turbulence. The pilot's pitch-loop adaptation generally correlated with the frequency-domain characteristics of the pitch response to turbulence and the pitch response to control inputs. The results of the study show no specific low-frequency attitude gain requirements that must be satisfied by the pilot for the attitude disturbance and dynamic characteristics considered. The influence of the aircraft position-loop characteristics on pilot pitch-loop adaptation was important only for configurations that had small attitude disturbances. For these cases the requirements for position-loop control apparently determined the minimum acceptable pitch-loop crossover frequency. Results also show that the pilot preferred to adjust pitch-loop gain by changing control-stick sensitivity (aircraft gain) rather than by changing his internal gain."
"The human operator's use of roll-motion cues is investigated for man-vehicle control in a compensatory tracking task with a disturbance input. Extensive data for the human operator's describing function are taken for a wide range of vehicle dynamics under conditions of visual cues only, roll-motion cues only, and simultaneous visual and roll-motion cues. Addition of roll-motion cues to visual cues permits the human operator to increase his phase lead at frequencies above 3 rad/s. This allows him to increase the system open-loop gain without a loss of system stability, and thus to reduce the system tracking error. Experimental results indicate that in a compensatory system with a disturbance input, any condition in which additional human operator lead at frequencies above 3 rad/s would be useful is a condition in which roll-motion cues would aid."
"A series of experiments was conducted to determine the information processing rates of several subjects performing one- and two-axis compensatory tracking tasks with a secondary auditory task. The experimental variables were the order of controlled element dynamics, the forcing function, and the addition of a secondary task. Human information processing rates decreased slightly on each tracking channel with the addition of the second tracking channel or the secondary auditory task. Other than this effect, the information processing rates were additive until a limit in the total information processing rate was reached. This limit was related to the order of the controlled element."
"The synthesis of sampled-data models of human controllers has been hampered by the lack of systematic procedures for estimating the sampling frequency to be used in the model. This paper presents two methods (programmed search and gradient search) for the determination of an unknown sampling frequency in closed-loop sampled-data systems. Both methods are based on, a priori knowledge of the structure of the system to be identified and require only measurements of the continuous input and output of the system. Several theorems conceming the identification problem are presented. The application of both the gradient search and programmed search techniques is illustrated by several examples."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"This index covers all technical items - papers, correspondence, reviews, etc. - that appeared in this periodical during the year, and items from previous years that were commented upon or corrected in this year. Departments and other items may also be covered if they have been judged to have archival value. The Author Index contains the primary entry for each item, listed under the first author's name. The primary entry includes the coauthors' names, the title of the paper or other item, and its location, specified by the publication abbreviation, year, month, and inclusive pagination. The Subject Index contains entries describing the item under all appropriate subject headings, plus the first author's name, the publication abbreviation, month, and year, and inclusive pages. Note that the item title is found only under the primary entry in the Author Index."
"IEEE Transactions on Man-Machine Systems is published to promote the dissemination of concepts, methods of experiment, results, and applications to design pertaining to man-machine systems. This includes the following areas: Continuous manual control of vehicles and industrial processes; basic motor skills. Man-computer decision making; computer displays and input techniques; user-oriented languages; computer-aided instruction. Communication devices and techniques in normal and unusual environments; applied sensory research; signal detection and pattern recognition. System simulation and design; training of operators; operator performance in vigilance and monitoring tasks; maintenance and reliability techniques. Large-scale man-machine systems; consumer preference evaluation techniques; accident prevention and safety. Acceptable papers may range from mathematical modeling and computer simulation, through laboratory experimentation, to system design and field evaluation. Papers describing successful application of conventional theory and techniques in conventional problem areas ordinarily are not acceptable. Papers previously published in journals of wide public circulation are not acceptable. First priority will be given to papers in areas of current interest that contribute original ideas soundly presented. Tutorial or review papers in such areas are also welcome. Each paper is normally submitted to three referees, either members of the editorial board or others, who, in the opinion of the Editor, are recognized experts in fields appropriate to the particular paper. A referee is at liberty to disqualify himself and suggest another whom he considers more suitable. Short communications are encouraged. These may be abbreviated papers, relevant comments on other papers published in this TRANSACTIONS, authors' rebuttals to same, or letters to the Editor. Reviews of appropriate new books are also solicited."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Lists the institutions that support this publication."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"This paper gives an adaptive procedure for selecting a discriminant for a pattern recognizer. The optimum discriminant is selected from a given finite set of discriminants. The selection of this set itself is not considered here. At any stage the optimum discriminant is selected on the basis of the past observations. Since the storage space for these observations is assumed to be limited, and hence the qualifier finite memory, the information stored about these past observations is judiciously selected. No other a priori knowledge is assumed. A mathematical model of the problem of pattern recognition is constructed and several theorems are proved. With the help of these theorems, the adaptive procedure is developed. This adaptive procedure is, in effect, a method of using the finite memory efficiently in \"training\" the pattern recognizer."
"The objective of this research was to investigate a technique for machine learning that would be useful in solving problems involving forcing states. In games or control problems a forcing state is one from which the final goal can always be reached, regardless of what disturbances may arise. A program that learns forcing states in a class of games (in a game-independent format) by working backwards from a previous loss has been written. The class of positions that ultimately results in the opponent's win is learned by the program (using a specially designed description language) and stored in its memory together with the correct move to be made when this pattern reoccurs. These patterns are searched for during future plays of the game. If they are formed by the opponent, the learning program blocks them before the opponent's win sequence can begin. If it forms the patterns first, the learning program initiates the win sequence. The class of games for which the program is effective includes Qubic, Go-Moku, Hex, and the Shannon network games, including Bridge-it. The description language enables the learning program to generalize from one example of a forcing state to all other configurations that are strategically equivalent."
"An attempt is made to extract feature informations automatically from patterns which may consist of open lines, partially overlapping cells, and cells that may lie entirely inside another cell. The usual pattern-recognition techniques, such as the linear threshold logic technique and the masking or template technique, are not practical here, if not entirely impossible. In this paper, a direct-search computer program using a heuristic approach is described. A test pattern is used to illustrate the capability of the program. The subject should be of general interest to those in the field of automation and cybernetics."
"A 2-stage classification model is presented in which the first stage is a quick, computerized Bayes rule decision device, and the second a slow, but perfectly accurate, classifier. A stationary stream of elements or objects to be classified into one of several mutually exclusive categories is fed into the model. The conditional probabilities associated with the Bayes device are assumed unknown at the outset, except up to an initial probability distribution. The a posteriori probabilities from the first stage are treated as information that can speed up or slow down the processing time in the second stage. The latter, after a delay time, feeds back accurate classification information to the first stage to update the conditional probabilities. It is shown that, as the classification process unfolds, any updating scheme that causes the Bayes classifier ultimately to learn the true values of the conditional probabilities also minimizes the expected processing time in the second stage. The learning rate of the system is discussed as a function of the updating scheme. An example of a simple system is presented and the learning rate is derived specifically for that case."
"Previous papers have proposed the application of Wiener's Hermite-Laguerre expansion procedure to the multiple-alternative, discrete-decision problem with learning, characteristic of many waveform or stochastic-process pattern-recognition problems. Both sequential and nonsequential procedures were formulated; the resulting models are functionally analogous to a generalized Bayes'-net type of pattern recognizer or decision maker for stochastic processes, differing from usual Bayes' nets in their actual mathematical or circuit configurations and size-determining factors. It is to be noted that for ergodic processes (or approximations thereto), the procedure, if it can be applied, is nonparametric, i.e., not dependent upon prior or explicit knowledge of the form of the probability distribution governing the behavior of the stochastic process. The applicability of the resulting system to problems in cybernetics, intelligence, and learning was discussed previously. The present paper summarizes the results of a subsequent analytical investigation which included a digital simulation of the procedure. Emphasis is on the aspects of realizability, convergence, and applicability of the method with regard to 1) the classes of stochastic inputs for which the procedure is valid, and 2) the parameters of those processes. A Wiener or Wiener-derived white-noise process is used as the bench mark process here. Based on the results of the analysis, the introduction of certain preprocessors to extend the applicability of the procedure are suggested."
"Several decision algorithms were used to classify complex patterns recorded by TV cameras aboard unmanned, scientific satellites. Recognition experiments were performed with two kinds of patterns: lunar topographic features and clouds in the earth's atmosphere. Classification accuracies ranged from 53 percent to 99 percent on independent data."
"This paper describes closed-loop testing of the NORAD Command and Control System's ability to perform its assigned task: provide support for CINCNORAD in directing the air defense of North America. Special techniques were required to perform this testing since human beings were an integral part of the feedback loop. System test design and results are treated."
"A stochastic automaton responds to the penalties from a random environment through a reinforcement scheme by changing its state probability distribution in such a way as to reduce the average penalty received. In this manner the automaton is said to possess a variable structure and the ability to learn. This paper discusses the efficiency of learning for an m-state automaton in terms of expediency and convergence, under two distinct types of reinforcement schemes: one based on penalty probabilities and the other on penalty strengths. The functional relationship between the successive probabilities in the reinforcement scheme may be either linear or nonlinear. The stability of the asymptotic expected values of the state probability is discussed in detail. The conditions for optimal and expedient behavior of the automaton are derived. Reduction of the probability of suboptimal performance by adopting the Beta model of the mathematical learning theory is discussed. Convergence is discussed in the light of variance analysis. The initial learning rate is used as a measure of the overall convergence rate. Learning curves can be obtained by solving nonlinear difference equations relating the successive expected values. An analytic expression concerning the convergence behavior of the linear case is derived. It is shown that by a suitable choice of the reinforcement scheme it is possible to increase the separation of asymptotic state probabilities."
"This paper presents a mathematical model for decision making in control systems. The model is constructed to perform four modes of control: 1) probing, 2) gradient, 3) heuristic, and 4) terminal. The operation of the model switches from one mode to another by following certain decision logic, which simulates the function of a human operator in a control system and the evolution of heuristics for control. The simulation results compare favorably with the data obtained from experiments with subjects."
"Experiments have been performed on the fusional vergence eye-movement mechanism in humans to provide a comparison with the established dynamical characteristics of the versional eye-movement system. Transient and frequency response experiments indicate that the fusional vergence system is not characterized by sampled data or refractory operation. When provided with a periodic input, this system may utilize prediction to reduce inherent phase lags. The gain of the system, although apparently unaffected by the predictive mechanism, is subject to input amplitude-dependent nonlinearities. Under conditions of artificially high loop gain, the system breaks into smooth sustained oscillations at a frequency predicted by frequency response data. The absence of a refractory period in the fusional vergence system is demonstrated by the system response to brief pulsatile stimulation. These results are discussed, emphasizing comparison with corresponding results from experiments on the versional system."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"The problem considered is that of obtaining solutions to large nonlinear mathematical programs by coordinated solution of smaller subproblems. If all functions in the original problem are additively separable, this can be done by finding a saddle point for the associated Lagrangian function. Coordination is then accomplished by shadow prices, with these prices chosen to solve a dual program. Characteristics of the dual program are investigated, and an algorithm is proposed in which subproblems are solved for given shadow prices. These solutions provide the value and gradient of the dual function, and this information is used to update the shadow prices so that the dual problem is brought closer to solution. Application to two classes of problems is given. The first class is one whose constraints describe a system of coupled subsystems; the second is a class of multi-item inventory problems whose decision variables may be discrete."
"Although the problem of determining the minimum cost path through a graph arises naturally in a number of interesting applications, there has been no underlying theory to guide the development of efficient search procedures. Moreover, there is no adequate conceptual framework within which the various ad hoc search strategies proposed to date can be compared. This paper describes how heuristic information from the problem domain can be incorporated into a formal mathematical theory of graph searching and demonstrates an optimality property of a class of search strategies."
"A state-space model describes the behavioral characteristics of a system as a set of relationships among time functions representing its inputs, outputs, and internal state. The model presented describes the utilization of a university's basic resources of personnel, space, and technological equipment in the production of degree programs, research, and public or technical services. It is intended as an aid in achieving an optimal allocation of resources in higher education and in predicting future needs. The internal state of the system is defined as the distribution of students into levels and fields of study, with associated unit \"costs\" of education received. The model is developed by interconnecting, with appropriate constraints, independent submodels of major functional segments of university activity. The development of computer programs for estimation of parameters with continual updating and for simulation of the system behavior is described. This description includes a review of machine-addressable data files needed to implement the programs. The state model provides a natural form for approaching problems of system optimization and control. The paper discusses the question of control inputs and the feasibility of developing a formal optimal control policy for a university with essentially \"open door\" admissions."
"The recognition of hand-printed numerals is studied on a broad experimental basis within the constraints imposed by a raster scanner generating binary video patterns, a mixed measurement set, and a statistical decision function. A computer-controlled scanner is used to acquire the characters, to adjust the raster resolution and registration, and to monitor the black-white threshold of the quantizer. The dimensionality of the decision problem is reduced by a hybrid system of measurements. In the measurement design, three types of measurements are generated: a set of \"topological\" measurements, a set of logical \"n-tuples,\" both designed by hand, and a large set of n-tuples machine generated at random under special constraints. The final set of 100 measurements is selected automatically by a programmed algorithm that attempts to minimize the maximum expected error rate between every character pair. Computer simulation experiments show the effectiveness of the selection procedure, the contribution of the different types of measurements, the effect of the number of measurements selected on recognition, and the desirability of size and shear normalization. The final system is tested on four data sets printed under different degrees of control on the writers. Each data set consists of approximately 10 000 characters. For this comparison, a first-order maximum likelihood function with weights quantized to 100 levels is used. Error versus reject curves are given on several combinations of training and test sets."
"An approach for optimum effectiveness improvement of subsystem equipment by the option tradeoff analysis process is discussed. The objective is to generate more effectiveness ideas in furthering tradeoff procedures for subsystem design improvement. Two hypothetical spacecraft subsystems are used to illustrate the results. A sequence of block diagrams, tabulations, and graphs is presented to reflect these results. Although only two subsystems are shown, it is apparent that this method could be applied to others. This study provides insight into a more effective approach in conducting a trade study."
"The primary purpose of this work is the development of a technique for storing and regenerating extensive lists of sequential steps to be carried out on the basis of storing all of the minimum routes in a transportation system. The process is then generalized in terms of any selection of sequential steps emanating from an origin and terminating at a destination."
"A method is presented for selecting a subset of features from a specified set when economic considerations prevent utilization of the complete set. The formulation of the feature selection problem as a dynamic programming problem permits an optimal solution to feature selection problems which previously were uncomputable. Although optimality is defined in terms of a particular measure, the Fisher return function, other criteria may be substituted as appropriate to the problem at hand. This mathematical model permits the study of interactions among processing time, cost, and probability of correctly classifying patterns, thus illustrating the advantages of dynamic programming. The natural limitation of the model is that the only features which can be selected are those supplied by its designer. Conceptually, the dynamic programming approach can be extended to problems in which several constraints limit the selection of features, but the computational difficulties become dominant as the number of constraints grows beyond two or three."
"A simple criterion is derived for upper-bounding the rate of convergence of a least-square-fit algorithm used for recovering functions from noisy measurements taken at randomly selected points."
"This paper deals with optimal control in multilevel systems. The decomposition of a system into N subsystems is presented as a problem of formulating the performance index P(m) as a function of N components P(P1, P2,..., PN) and of transforming the system constraint mϵR into a set of constraints m1ϵIR1(v), m2ϵR2(v),..., vϵRv, where v is the coordination variable. Ways of achieving this goal as applicable to typical systems are presented. Some aspects of choosing the coordination variable and the tradeoffs involved are discussed. Lagrangian methods as used previously by Lasdon and Pearson are shown to be a particular case of parametric optimization, and the range of their applicability is specified. Simple examples of static optimization serve to illustrate the approach."
"The process of determining what should be in an electronic package or on an LSI slice is considered a partitioning problem with a set of constraints. An approach to system decomposition and partitioning is established from the viewpoint of minimizing external signal lines by minimizing the number of pins per set of packages, which will improve reliability and performance and reduce cost. Applications of combinatorial analysis and signal graph theory to partition a group of circuits are illustrated. System partitioning levels are identified as complexity levels. A partitioning procedure is given for use at any complexity level, and equations are provided for counting the possible number of partitions. A combinatorial technique is developed to count the number of pins per package. System integration is considered here to be the process of converting interconnections of circuits and elements to intraconnections of function blocks. An integration factor concept, based on the number of signal lines and required pins per package, is introduced. The integration factor is used to ascertain tradeoffs and compromises of possible partitions and integration techniques. The rules given provide an analytic method for solving some of the problems of system design."
"An evaluation is given of the postulate that color discrimination is achieved by the sensing of optical mode patterns excited in the retinal cones. Results are presented from analyses of the patterns and spectral responses of the optical modes. It is shown that these modes qualitatively have the proper characteristics required to satisfy the color discrimination properties of human vision. This postulate results in simple and natural explanations for the primary causes of color blindness."
"This paper describes some extensions of classical convex programming to problems formulated on an abstract normed space. The utility of the normed-space formulation is illustrated by some simple applications."
"The purpose of this correspondence is to describe the formulation of a FORTRAN IV computer program to simulate a Homeostat modified to show memory and learning. Results of several simulation runs are presented and evaluated in the light of the requirements of self-organizing systems."
"A mechanism is proposed whereby categorization of stimuli is performed on the basis of the context in which such stimuli occur. This mechanism depends on lateral inhibition, which has been experimentally shown to operate in a number of biological receptor systems. It is assumed that n areas in the brain correspond to n classes into which a stimulus might be classified, the category chosen corresponding to the area of maximal excitation. Establishment of mutually inhibitory connections between these areas, such that inhibition follows the equation for lateral inhibition and such that areas corresponding to \"like\" classes inhibit each other less than areas corresponding to \"unlike\" classes, leads to contextual categorization."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Decision theory provides a rational framework for choosing between alternative courses of action when the consequences resulting from this choice are imperfectly known. Two streams of thought serve as the foundations: utility theory and the inductive use of probability theory. The intent of this paper is to provide a tutorial introduction to this increasingly important area of systems science. The foundations are developed on an axiomatic basis, and a simple example, the \"anniversary problem,\" is used to illustrate decision theory. The concept of the value of information is developed and demonstrated. At times mathematical rigor has been subordinated to provide a clear and readily accessible exposition of the fundamental assumptions and concepts of decision theory. A sampling of the many elegant and rigorous treatments of decision theory is provided among the references."
"Decision analysis has emerged from theory to practice to form a discipline for balancing the many factors that bear upon a decision. Unusual features of the discipline are the treatment of uncertainty through subjective probability and of attitude toward risk through utility theory. Capturing the structure of problem relationships occupies a central position; the process can be visualized in a graphical problem space. These features are combined with other preference measures to produce a useful conceptual model for analyzing decisions, the decision analysis cycle. In its three phases-deterministic, probabilistic, and informational-the cycle progressively determines the importance of variables in deterministic, probabilistic, and economic environments. The ability to assign an economic value to the complete or partial elimination of uncertainty through experimentation is a particularly important characteristic. Recent applications in business and government indicate that the increased logical scope afforded by decision analysis offers new opportunities for rationality to those who wish it."
"The practical advantage of decision analysis is the decomposition of a complex problem into simpler parts that it makes possible. The consequences of a decision can be described in terms of contingent payoffs and then evaluated via independently assessed risk preferences (codified in a utility measure) and likelihood judgments (codified in a probability measure). In principle an (axiomatically consistent) individual can or should specify the requisite measures directly via various devices. Decision analysis in a multiperson enterprise, however, requires additional methods to construct such measures when they exist, or altemative measures if necessary. This paper reviews a \"cooperative sharing\" approach to multiperson decision analysis and compares it to the economic theory of risk markets. The qualitative properties of surrogate measures for an enterprise are described and related to the role of financial instruments, such as stocks and bonds. Cooperative behavior is assumed for the most part, but the role of game theory under uncertainty is also described briefly."
"In decision theory, mathematical analysis shows that once the sampling distribution, loss function, and sample are specified, the only remaining basis for a choice among different admissible decisions lies in the prior probabilities. Therefore, the logical foundations of decision theory cannot be put in fully satisfactory form until the old problem of arbitrariness (sometimes called \"subjectiveness\") in assigning prior probabilities is resolved. The principle of maximum entropy represents one step in this direction. Its use is illustrated, and a correspondence property between maximum-entropy probabilities and frequencies is demonstrated. The consistency of this principle with the principles of conventional \"direct probability\" analysis is illustrated by showing that many known results may be derived by either method. However, an ambiguity remains in setting up a prior on a continuous parameter space because the results lack invariance under a change of parameters; thus a further principle is needed. It is shown that in many problems, including some of the most important in practice, this ambiguity can be removed by applying methods of group theoretical reasoning which have long been used in theoretical physics. By finding the group of transformations on the parameter space which convert the problem into an equivalent one, a basic desideratum of consistency can be stated in the form of functional equations which impose conditions on, and in some cases fully determine, an \"invariant measure\" on the parameter space."
"The Jaynes \"widget problem\" is reviewed as an example of an application of the principle of maximum entropy in the making of decisions. The exact solution yields an unusual probability distribution. The problem illustrates why some kinds of decisions can be made intuitively and accurately, but would be difficult to rationalize without the principle of maximum entropy."
"A Probabilistic Information Processing System (PIP) uses men and machines in a novel way to perform diagnostic information processing. Men estimate likelihood ratios for each datum and each pair of hypotheses under consideration or a sufficient subset of these pairs. A computer aggregates these estimates by means of Bayes' theorem of probability theory into a posterior distribution that reflects the impact of all available data on all hypotheses being considered. Such a system circumvents human conservatism in information processing, the inability of men to aggregate information in such a way as to modify their opinions as much as the available data justify. It also fragments the job of evaluating diagnostic information into small separable tasks. The posterior distributions that are a PIP's output may be used as a guide to human decision making or may be combined with a payoff matrix to make decisions by means of the principle of maximizing expected value. A large simulation-type experiment compared a PIP with three other information processing systems in a simulated strategic war setting of the 1970's. The difference between PIP and its competitors was that in PIP the information was aggregated by computer, while in the other three systems, the operators aggregated the information in their heads. PIP processed the information dramatically more efficiently than did any competitor. Data that would lead PIP to give 99:1 odds in favor of a hypothesis led the next best system to give 4½: 1 odds."
"This paper surveys some classical decision problems with and without uncertainty. From the survey, it is concluded that the natural generalization of these problems leads to the problem of describing preference orderings over sets of stochastic processes. It is shown that the decision maker can describe a preference ordering of this kind by stating that he is exposed to a risk, represented by a stochastic process, and that his objective is to find the decision which will minimize the probability of his ruin. If this probability is equal to one, the natural objective is to maximize the expected time before ruin occurs."
"When a decision maker is assessing a preference (utility) function for assets (wealth), it is natural for him to start by making some quantitative assessments of the certainty equivalents of a few simple gambles and some qualitative statements specifying any regions in which he feels risk-averse or risk-seeking and any regions in which he feels decreasingly or increasingly risk-averse or risk-seeking. Several questions then arise. Does any preference function exist which satisfies all the quantitative and qualitative restrictions simultaneously, that is, are the restrictions consistent? If so, how far do they determine the preference function? How might one fair a \"smooth\" function satisfying the restrictions? This paper is addressed to these questions. First the problem is introduced in some detail, and the concepts involved reviewed. Then the case is considered where the qualitative restrictions only specify regions of risk-aversion or risk-seeking. It turns out in this case that all the restrictions are linear in certain quantities, so that the existence problem is essentially one of satisfying linear constraints. Furthermore, finding the maximum or minimum solution at a specified point is exactly a linear programming problem. Also discussed briefly are the possibility that some smoothing problems might simply introduce a nonlinear objective function (though the general smoothing problem is more complicated) and the problem of making the derivative of the preference function continuous (which is not always possible). If regions of increasing or decreasing risk-aversion are also given, the problem becomes much more difficult."
"A corporate utility function plays a key role in the application of decision theory. This paper describes how such a utility function was evolved as a risk policy for capital investment decisions. First, 36 corporate executives were interviewed and their risk attitudes were quantified. From the responses of the interviewees, a mathematical function was developed that could reflect each interviewee's attitude. The fit of the function was tested by checking the reaction of the interviewees to adjusted responses. The functional form that led the interviewees to prefer the adjusted responses to their initial responses was finally accepted. The mathematical form of the function was considered a flexible pattern for a risk policy. The assumption was made that the corporate risk policy would be of this pattern. With the pattern for a risk policy set, it was possible to simplify the method of deriving a particular individual's risk attitude. Using the simplified method, the corporate policy makers were interviewed once more. The results from these interviews were then used as a starting point in two negotiation sessions. As a result of these negotiation sessions, the policy makers agreed on a risk policy for trial purposes. They also agreed to develop a number of major projects using the concepts of risk analysis and the certainty equivalent."
"Terminal acts and states of the world are specified, but detailed consequences may not be explicitly listed in an abbreviated states model. Axiomatic analyses of this model, with and without experimentation prior to the selection of a terminal act, are presented. In the abbreviated model, state probabilities are not defined, but the analysis is similar in many ways to more specialized models that permit derivations of state probabilities."
"Sequential decision models have heretofore assumed a full memory decision maker. That is, the model is permitted to retain, to any degree of precision, all information needed to optimize decision performance. This information may include functions or variables that change with observations and thus often implies a decision maker which possesses a large amount of soft (erasable) memory. In simple multistage decision problems soft memory can be reduced to two variables-the log-odds ratio L and the available number of observations n. The log-odds ratio is a quantitative measure of the decision maker's opinion of the cause of the observed variate. This paper examines the effect of limiting the decision maker's soft memory by specifying an m-bit register for the random variable L. The theory for limited memory multistage decision processes is presented in which there are two simple hypotheses. Numerical results indicate that the 3-bit memory is, for practical purposes, equivalent to a full memory decision maker."
"Two Bayesian autoregressive time series models for partially observable dynamic processes are presented. In the first model, a general inference procedure is developed for the situation in which k previous values of the time series plus a change error determine the next value. This general model is specialized to an example in which the observational and change errors follow a normal probability law; the results for k = 1 are given and discussed. The second general model adds the facility for simultaneously inferring an unknown and unchanging parameter of the time series. This model is specialized to the same normal example presented earlier, with the precision of the change error as the unknown process parameter."
"This paper shows how the decision analysis approach can be used to determine the most economic method of carrying out computations or analyses. A primary decision problem is first formulated to obtain a structure for the analysis. Then several computational or analytical procedures, which can be used to analyze the primary decision problem in greater detail, are evaluated to select the most economic procedure. The purpose of each of these procedures is to increase the available information about uncertain parameters before making the primary decision, thereby yielding a \"better\" decision. Each procedure is evaluated by combining the value structure of the primary decision problem with a model of that procedure. The procedures considered in this paper are clairvoyance, complete analysis, Monte Carlo analysis, and numerical analysis. An example of a bidding problem is used to illustrate the results."
"This paper describes a conceptual framework within which several alternate model forms for a particular process can be considered simultaneously. The development is in decision theoretic terms with the primary emphasis on the setting of a vector of control variables rather than the selection of a model per se. The argument centers about the role of observed data in altering the state of information about the appropriate model form and its parameters. The basic ideas are illustrated by means of a simple example of modeling a binary source."
"The decision analysis described considers four major installation development alternatives upon which management decisions were required. The analysis has a number of phases. The technical-economic system is first modeled deterministically to describe the characteristics of the business. The deterministic model, or expected value business model, is then exercised in a sensitivity phase to determine what parameters are most influential to the outcomes. The analysis uses present worth methods for the time preference for money. Pricing strategies and market feedback capability are included. Adjunct businesses that develop as a result of the original business have been modeled in the deterministic model. The deterministic or nominal value outcomes show a clear progression of improvement over a 20 year period for the more technically advanced installation developments. The cost of development is an influential contributor to deterministic outcomes. The influence on near term outcomes of development costs was sufficient to make the issue of time value of outcomes very significant. The value of identifying the short term and long term outcomes on the basis of the time value of outcomes becomes identifiable as a significant contribution to decision making. The thinking which contributed to choosing the parameters used in the uncertainty analysis proved to be an important means of clarifying the issues surrounding what uncertainty analysis of a given development alternative venture really consists of."
"The decision faced by a physician when confronted by a patient with an undetermined disease may be simply stated as: \"What course of action, in the form of diagnostic tests and/or treatments, should be taken?\" In most cases, this problem can be characterized as a sequential decision under uncertainty. Since this is a class of problems for which decision theory has proved a useful tool, it appears fruitful to attempt to apply it to the physician's problem. In this paper, this possibility is explored by describing the application of decision theoretic techniques to a specific case. We first comment on why we believe the proposed model is more appropriate than other methods of treating the problem. Then the proposed model is briefly described in the abstract. The main body of the paper describes a specific problem and its solution by decision theoretic techniques. In the final section, some of the shortcomings of the particular analysis and some of the problems that might be encountered in a more general setting are pointed out."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Steps that must be taken to increase the acceptance of the results of simulation in terms of the decision process by the resource manager are discussed. The actions covered are categorized in terms of the technological content of the practice itself and those relating to the process of the practice. Specific work underway to increase responsiveness and accuracy and to reduce costs are related. Suggestions are drawn from another discipline that are offered as guidelines for gaining acceptance of simulation results and a decision from a resource manager."
"Simulation, or the use of models, has been successfully applied to engineering problems for several years. The acceptance of simulation as a working tool by management planners has been mixed, at best. In fact, in comparison to the number of engineers who use simulation, management planners who make use of it are in the minority. During the past five years there have been several applications of simulation by management planners. However, the number of models that ended up in the tool kit of top management are few. This paper discusses the role of simulation in management planning at The Boeing Company, Seattle, Wash., and suggests some useful guidelines."
"A computer simulation of the processing of felony defendants in the District of Columbia trial court system was developed using the General Purpose Simulation System language. The court system, data requirements, and results from several runs of the simulation are described."
"Corporate financial planning requires periodic reestimates of future revenues and costs. The Celanese Chemical Company is using a simulation model to supplement single-point estimates of net income with a range of values and their associated probabilities. This permits conservative or optimistic planning within the framework of risk. Inputs to this model include subjective estimates of each major product's sales volume, net sales return, and cost of manufacture and raw material. The model, written in General Purpose Simulation System (GPSS), also incorporates a supply and demand material balance for evaluating the cost effects of forecasted production, feed capacities, and feed-to-product ratios."
"Norden Division was faced with the task of simulating the shipboard behavior of a large suit of electronics operating under a variety of servicing conditions and supported by specified line and shop servicing facilities and personnel. As with most problems that require simulation, it consisted of large amounts of dynamic data and the complex interrelated constraints of the real world. It soon became apparent that the magnitude of data was such that the core requirements of even the largest computers could easily be exceeded. The response chosen was to unbound the GPSS/360 language to permit virtually unlimited data and model sizes. In unbounding, matrix savevalues and blocks are divided into sections stored on disk until required. Then each load section is called in as an overlay. Moreover, matrix savevalues can be permanently stored on disk. As such they are accessible to other models, thus permitting the establishment of data libraries within General Purpose Simulation System (GPSS)."
"The Operations Research Staff of the Social Security Administration has undertaken the development of a computer simulation of the claims process in its network of district offices. The objective is to obtain a means of evaluating alternatives of providing the same or equivalent service to the public with less waiting time, less elapsed time, or reduced demands on district office employees. To obtain the data necessary to describe the district office claims process to the simulation program, an integrated horizontal-longitudinal data collection was designed that had an auxiliary managerial value."
"Three points about the role of simulation in computing are discussed. The first point is a prediction about the present trend in the computer industry and the requirements of this trend line. The second point concems where the computer industry stands on this trend line with respect to these requirements. The third indicates the path to follow to keep abreast of the trend line. Simulation of a computer system is defined as a model to evaluate performance of a total computer system operating in the user's environment. Few computer systems today provide any information on how they are operating. Parameters are needed. This leads to the prediction that computer systems will evolve to become self-monitoring and self-adjusting. In certain areas, computers are now beginning to study themselves as well as other applications. The IBM Corporation has developed CSS/360 which provides one set of basic models that the user can combine to suit his own configuration. Knowledge gained in the Gemini program provided several areas of technical fallout that revised prior concepts of simulation. The problem for the future is to keep pace with the evergrowing requirements and to make the systems more user oriented, while developing improved calibration techniques. Self-monitoring systems must provide data on both hardware and control program portions of computer systems while performing various applications."
"A large General Purpose Simulation System (GPSS) model has been developed to simulate the throughput and capacity of an application-oriented multiprocessing system. The model represents the system in terms of the hardware and software resources and the competitors for these resources. This paper discusses the size of the model, the running time of the model, and the development cycle. It also tabulates the hardware and software resources and the mapping of these resources into GPSS. Some of the possible applications of a model of this nature are discussed as well as some of the GPSS features that were used to conserve computer running time. Finally, some conclusions are drawn based on having developed a model of a large real-time multiprocessing system."
"A General Purpose Simulation System (GPSS) model was developed for Sinclair Oil Corporation's private line commulnications network. This network includes sixty terminals connected by company owned and operated microwave circuits and AT&T Telpak Systems. The model was designed to evaluate current networks and to assist in designing future systems. This paper reviews the background, development, and implementation of this project. In addition, other simulation projects are briefly summarized."
"Simulation has been used to solve a tenninal operation problem involving manning in existing facilities and to test changes in design for new facilities. The discussion includes why General Purpose Simulation System (GPSS) III was chosen, how the model was developed, further uses for the same model, and the results of the simulation."
"When a system with many stations at widespread physical locations has to be maintained, there arises a question regarding the policies the repair crew should use in determining the station to repair next. This problem is known as \"the traveling repairman problem.\" Although this paper discusses a simulation model that is being used to formulate the traveling repairman's policies for a specific system, the aspect of interest is the unconventional manner in which General Purpose Simulation System (GPSS) is used. The system has been modeled not by simulating the physical events or devices but rather by simulating conceptual paperwork. Failure notices and the log of the repair vehicle's positions are the elements that are modeled rather than observation stations or the repair vehicle itself."
"A scheme for using helicopters to protect convoys of merchant ships against attack by enemy submarines has been modeled to study the equipment characteristics and tactics. The model handles multiple convoys, helicopters, enemy submarines, and false targets and deals with the detailed interactions and geometric relationships among them. The model contains a complete situation: convoys leave port at intervals to cross an ocean area; submarines leave their port and navigate to a patrol area; sonar detections are made, weapons are launched, survivors continue in the model until port is reached or supplies run low; etc. The conflict can continue for any number of convoy crossings as predetermined by the modeler."
"Simulation techniques are used to study a deterministic problem in the aluminium industry. Mathematical methods alone are inadequate to solve this scheduling problem. Three segments are connected: 1) simulation model, 2) optimization with dynamic programming, and 3) sorting, heuristic, and manual treatments. The economical function is the cost of electrical energy consumed. With dynamic programming the energy consumption of the soaking pits is optimized by using simplified hypotheses. Simulation allows one to adapt mathematical results to the real process. The same simulation model was used during the analysis period and, repetitively, during the operational period."
"A Management Information System has been developed and implemented using General Purpose Simulation System (GPSS)/360. The system provided the following data for a solid-state production facility: 1) current location of wafers showing work orders started, total daily production, and rejects; 2) yesterday's and accumulated yield by step, and projection of number of finished wafers from this quantity; 3) location of dormant work orders, i.e., orders that had not moved for a specified time; 4) current utilization of equipment and manpower; 5) number of orders awaiting processing at each step and how long they have been waiting; 6) daily operations schedule of wafers to be processed each day according to a predetermined priority structure; and 7) delivery forecast for when orders would be shipped and how the date varies according to resources applied. The inventory status data were structured in GPSS/360 to provide a common data format for both current status and forecasting. This fully operational system was developed to satisfy specific solid-state management requirements. This system was organized in a general manner for flexibility and change and could be modified to be used as a management information system for other types of operations."
"This paper describes a system for monitoring a General Purpose Simulation System (GPSS) run while the run is in progress. The on-line monitor provides the ability to select and display statistics related to the GPSS entities. The IBM 2250 and the IBM 2260 display consoles are used as interface devices. This system is currently in use at the MITRE Corporation, Washington, D.C."
"The General Purpose Simulation System (GPSS)/ 360 program used with the IBM System/360 computers has been modified to permit larger models, data libraries, and an interactive user service. The major improvements of the GPSS/360-Norden are the following. 1) Models of any size may be run by using direct access devices to store sections of the model. 2) The models can interact with data banks stored on direct access devices. 3) The model output can be presented to the user on a 2250 display it as well as on the conventional printer. 4) Model generation and debugging has been improved using the 2250 display unit. Complete compatibility has been maintained and normal use of GPSS/360 is unaffected by the changes and additions."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"The problem of the electromagnetic shielding effectiveness of a thin, plane metal sheet of infinite extent on the electromagnetic field generated by a circular loop field source with uniform current I is solved by application of the quasi-near and near field approximations to the exact integral expressions. The results are shown to be in close agreement with experimental data as well as numerical integration results. Also, they are similar to the results obtained from the plane wave shielding theory of Schelkunoff."
"A low-frequency resonance in the 5- to 200-kHz range has been discovered in typical shielding enclosures. It is due to unequal phase shifts in wave transmission to a receiving point via two or more parallel paths: one through the shielding material itself and others through leakage paths such as seams. Theoretical and experimental results are shown to be in close agreement and indicate a new approach to the design of shielding enclosures."
"A theory on the shielding effectiveness of n coaxial metallic tubings which shield a coaxial cable has been developed based on electromagnetic (EM) field theory. The theory holds for all homogeneous, linear, and isotropic shields, magnetic or nonmagnetic, and covers essentially the entire frequency range. When a cable carries an evenly distributed axial current, the dominant mode of propagation is transverse magnetic (TM) and has only three field components, i.e., Ez, Hθ, and Er. The fields of the dominant mode leaking from the cable, with and without shields, have been determined rigorously from the solutions of Maxwell's equations and boundary conditions. The shielding effectiveness of the tubings, defined as the insertion loss, has thus been readily obtained. To simplify the obtained expressions to a certain degree such that numerical calculations are manageable, various approximations have been introduced and precisely justified. The limitations imposed on the simplified expression due to the approximations have been clearly listed. It has been shown that Schelkunoff's shielding theory is merely a special case of the present work. As an example, the shielding effectiveness of a single copper tubing surrounding an RG-8/U cable has been considered. The data measured from a carefully designed experimental setup show that at high frequencies, i.e., above 10 kHz, the curve predicted by the present work is about 1 dB above the empirical curve, while the curve due to Schelkunoff is about 5 dB below the empirical curve. At low frequencies, i.e."
"Shielding attenuation values at low frequencies have been computed for magnetic and nonmagnetic cylindrical tubes based on formulas developed by King.[2] The attenuation in decibels was computed on a digital computer for a range of ratios of wall thickness to depth of penetration from 0.1 to 10 as a function of a nondimensional parameter as used by Kaden.[4] Two graphs are presented that summarize the computer results."
"This paper presents a quasi-static approximate solution to the magnetic shielding of several nonuniform enclosures using the integral form of Maxwell's equations and insight gained from other approaches. The solution is called quasi-static as the assumptions made are from physical arguments based on low-frequency cases where the enclosure size is much less than a wavelength. The integral form of Maxwell's equations is used to obtain a first order correction to the static solution to obtain induced currents in the time-varying case. A cylindrical shell immersed in an axial magnetic field is used to illustrate the method, which is then extended to derive a formula for a similarly excited rectangular enclosure. These shields are seen to behave like a low-pass filter. Although the enclosure dimensions are small compared to the wavelength, the skin depth effects in the walls cannot be neglected even for relatively thin material as usually encountered in an enclosure. These skin effects are included in the analysis and experimental checks performed on a variety of enclosure sizes and materials, excited by a Helmholtz coil show agreement within two decibels over the 4-octave frequency range examined. No one can say whether this method offers a better solution to the shielding problem, as all solutions are approximate, but the author attempts to present an alternative formulation that aids in understanding the physical processes involved in the shielding effectiveness of an enclosure and fills some of the gaps between the plane-wave analysis and circuit approaches presently used."
"It is often desirable to estimate the degree of shielding achieved between two transmission lines crossing at some specified angle, when one of them is surrounded by a metallic tubing of finite length. A simple analysis that allows a rather accurate estimation of the shielding effectiveness of the tubing at low frequencies where the quasi-static assumption holds is presented. Based upon this quasi-static assumption and the empirical results that the fields generally fall off inversely with the square of the distance from a line and with the aid of Schelkunoff's shielding theory, an equation predicting the shielding effectiveness of the tubing has been derived and confirmed experimentally. Examples are given involving coaxial cables, parallel-wire lines, and copper shields of various lengths crossing at various angles. The discrepancies between calculated and measured values are generally less than 4 dB and in most cases less than 1 dB. The theory has also been applied to cases where the cables approach, but do not cross each other, such as were recently measured sured at the U. S. Navy Underwater Sound Laboratory.[1] Good agreement is obtained in this case also. Other situations involving ferro-magnetic shields and twistedpair lines have also been considered. The restrictions on the applicability of the formula developed have been pointed out explicitly."
"The shielding effectiveness of an enclosure at low frequencies can be readily computed using a circuit approach. Not only does this technique include the effects of the properties of the shield material, but it also includes the details of the geometry of the enclosure. Furthermore, this approach allows a nonempirical consideration of mesh enclosures and the effects of resistive seams in enclosure walls. By working with the circuit analogue, penetration by transient fields can also be computed. Essentially the enclosure is viewed as an antenna. In the case of magnetic shielding effectiveness, the enclosure is viewed as a short circuited loop antenna. In the case of electric field penetration, the enclosure is viewed as a fat electric dipole. Using this characterization and exact solutions where available, the current distribution on the outside of the enclosure is first determined. Then, based on the current distribution, the penetrating fields are computed. The equations are developed in such a way as to preserve a lumped circuit analogue for the low-frequency region. The basic circuit equations for magnetic field penetration are rederived from a rigorous solution. Rules to estimate the rise-time, fall-time, and peak magnitudes of transient penetrating fields are developed. The electric shielding effectiveness is developed in a similar manner. In both cases the results of the circuit approach agree well with those based on rigorous solutions of the electromagnetic boundary conditions. The results also agree with published experimental data on both large and small enclosures."
"To its three shielding study contracts over the past four years, ECOM contributed the analytical advances required to replace concepts found to be unsatisfactory at the start of the studies, yet still prevalent today. The treatment of oblique incidence was contributed by ECOM; the previous restriction to normal incidence is now rejected. The treatment of shields as circuit elements was originated by ECOM after rejecting, through consideration of Poynting vectors, the concept of high- and low-impedance fields. Thin films have required new techniques to which ECOM has contributed. This paper is written to bring these advances to all specialists in the field so that their talents can be brought to bear on the application or furtherance of these concepts."
"Values of initial magnetic permeability relative to free space have been obtained by means of novel techniques which permit measurements on material in the form of a flat sheet, a box, or any other configuration containing at least a six-inch square flat surface. As a by-product of the technique, electrical conductivity values may also be obtained."
"An intensive literature survey has been conducted to review existing techniques for measuring the effectiveness of RF shielding enclosures. Prevalent methods of measuring E- and H-field components and for sensing the total field are discussed and evaluated. The procedures described in the literature are tabulated into groups determined by their similarities in method or theory and are compared by listing the advantages and disadvantages inherent in each. (A weighting system is devised to aid in evaluating each of the principal methods discussed.) Also discussed are the theoretical considerations underlying each of the methods listed, as applicable to the measurement of shielding effectiveness. Among these are the concepts of the resultant wave impedance of the E-M field at a point inside a shielded enclosure and the relationship of low-impedance and high-impedance fields in the near field regions of antenna systems. Techniques for extending the frequency and intensity of illuminating fields are also discussed, as well as the insertion loss method of determining leakage from a shield. Limitations and deficiencies of this latter procedure are noted."
"Uniform measurement procedures are proposed for determining the relative effectiveness of room-size high-performance shielding enclosures. Test procedures are designated to measure the effectiveness of a rectangular parallelepiped with edge dimensions ranging from 1.5 to 15 meters. They are formulated to enable use of commercially available equipment for conducting tests under nonideal conditions. The standard does not, however, specify construction details for shielding enclosures nor does it suggest methods for calculating their effectiveness."
"A solution of electromagnetic field equations with appropriate boundary conditions shows that at the surface of a material with infinite conductivity, no parallel electric field or perpendicular magnetic field exists. As conductivity decreases, there are large relative increases in the parallel electric field and perpendicular magnetic field at the surface. A reduction in permeability lowers the parallel electric field while increasing the perpendicular magnetic field. For most practical shielded enclosures of room size, the shielding effectiveness is determined largely by the quality of the seams between panels, along door edges, or filter mountings. Hence an investigation is presented of results of an evaluation of a method developed by the government for finding faults in a shielded enclosure by detecting changes in the perpendicular component of magnetic field along the surface of the conducting wall emphasizing continuity of all types of seams of shielded enclosures."
"Research was conducted to determine the low-frequency shielding effectiveness of magnetic materials. Both analytical and experimental approaches were used. This work is unique in that it provides a technique for experimental separation of the various terms in the shielding expression. Expressions of shielding effectiveness of flat sheets for very low frequencies are derived, and the results of experiments with the following are given: 1) sheet materials, including AMPB-65,1 HyMu 80, conetic AA, mumetal, copper-plated AMPB-65, and galvannealed steel; 2) AMPB-65 sheets perforated with various size holes and various numbers of 0.125-inch diameter holes; 3) an overlap junction of two AMPB-65 sheets with a) various numbers of fastening screws and b) various depths of overlap; 4) overlap junctions of copper-plated AMPB-65 sheets; 5) AMPB-65 sheets clamped in Lindsay structure; and 6) honeycomb-core stainless steel sandwiches."
"Laboratory data are presented for H-field shielding effectiveness of sheets (≤ 20 mil) of aluminum and copper, both in relatively pure form and deposited by flame spraying on insulating material in a normal atmosphere. The measured shielding effectiveness is compared to values calculated on the basis of measured conductivity. The flame-spray conductivity was measured to be much lower than that of the pure metal; the shielding effectiveness of flame-sprayed insulating sheets is correspondingly low and in quantitative accord with the measured conductivity. It is shown that the flame-spray process, at least when performed in normal atmosphere, does not result in good shielding effectiveness to weight ratio."
"The results of plane-wave shielding effectiveness tests on vacuum deposited metallic thin films are discussed. The test data are presented in graphical form for thin films of copper, aluminum, silver, gold, and nickel. Shielding effectiveness as high as 90 dB was obtained. In addition, a novel test instrument and measurement technique were devised for this study. The test procedure is described, design information for the construction of the test device is given, and a theoretical basis for its use is presented."
"An empirical ELF and VLF study of 1/16- and 1/32-inch thick shield cans (stainless steel, aluminum, copper, Polyform, annealed Hipernom, and annealed and unannealed coldrolled steel, mumetal, and Co-Netic) was performed to investigate shielding effectiveness versus frequency characteristics with emphasis on the effects of machining (notches, slots, holes, and louvers), dropping, annealing, and welding. The erratic nature of many of the shielding functions is explained by the resonance theory of shielding, and the shielding characteristics of certain shield cans are compared. The paper also presents a brief introduction duction to the automated testing system used during this study to obtain the numerous shielding effectiveness versus frequency curves that were required."
"Laboratory data obtained in a shielding study led to the conclusion that the size or shape of a shielding enclosure does not significantly affect its shielding effectiveness at frequencies below cavity resonance. A figure-of-merit expression for weight-sensitive applications was devised and termed shielding density. It relates shielding effectiveness per unit weight per unit area. This concept is useful in providing the shield designer with answers to three specific questions concerning maximum shielding effectiveness, lightest shielding enclosure, and optimum shielding density."
"Military specifications, such as MIL-STD-810 and similar environmental specifications for airborne electronic equipments, delineate the extremes within which such equipment must function properly. Emphasis is usually on physical parameters such as vibration, shock, heat, cold, salt-spray, and corrosive atmospheres. Limits have usually been dictated by practical considerations of terrestrial, operational, and environmental conditions. Great strides have been taken toward lunar and interplanetary exploration, but the possible effects of known adverse environments upon the electromagnetic shielding effectiveness of electronic equipment enclosures are relatively unknown. Prior to conducting this study, opinions were solicited as to whether physical environments would affect the electromagnetic shielding characteristics of metal equipment enclosures. The consensus of educated guesses was that there would be no effect on electrical characteristics of the enclosures, provided of course that no physical damage accrued to the enclosures. The authors are not aware of any literature which purports to be a study or record of the effects of such environmental extremes upon the electromagnetic shielding effectiveness of electronic equipment enclosures. The effects of repeated temperature shock and of exposure to nuclear radiation on the shielding effectiveness S of enclosures fabricated from several common metals, incorporating several types of seam construction, are explored. This investigation results from a Boeing-sponsored companion study to work performed for the U. S. Army Electronics Command. It in no way purports to supply all the answers, but is presented in the hope that it may arouse sufficient interest so that unresolved questions will be thoroughly investigated."
"Cabling systems have long been known to be a source of unwanted pickup of radio-frequency interference. A typical source of pickup occurs when the outer sheath of a coaxial cable system forms part of a ground return for potentially interfering electromagnetic energy. Another source of penetration arises from a magnetic field which is perpendicular to the axis of the coaxial cable. A previous study demonstrated that the field emanating from a coaxial cable could be characterized as an equivalent open-wire pair. This particular effect is caused by the eccentricity between the centers of the outer and the inner conductors or because of other asymmetrical characteristics. The susceptibility of a coaxial cabling system to perpendicular magnetic fields can also be characterized in terms of an equivalent open-wire pair for short runs. The purpose of this investigation was to measure the shielding effectiveness of a typical flexible braid coaxial cable to magnetic fields perpendicular to its axis and to demonstrate that a coaxial cable may be considered as an equivalent open-wire pair in a cylindrical shield. A test setup employed a parallel plane transmission line to generate a uniform magnetic field perpendicular to the axis of the coaxial cable. The shielding effectiveness of the braid was measured for several classes of braid conditions. Then, using the same braid, a coaxial cable with an experimentally induced known eccentricity was employed and the overall pickup measured. The results confirmed the objectives of the investigation."
"In situations where several high-power transmitters and their antennas are to be used near one another, a certain amount of mutual interference can be expected. An instance of particular interest is that of high-intensity radiation inducing standing waves between the shields of nearby coaxial cables and a metal deck of ground plane. Standing waves induced may cause high potentials and possible breakdown at the ends of the cable, damaging connectors and antennas. There may also be some reduction of the shielding effectiveness of the coaxial cable when high-voltage standing waves are present in the shield. It has been common practice to eliminate such standing waves by periodic grounding of the outer conductor of the coaxial cable. This, however, requires penetration of the insulation material on the cable and formation of metal-to-metal joints on the shield. This is not only an inconvenient method of installation, but is also undesirable around salt water. Copper shielding will corrode, and corrosion at the joint of the dissimilar metal can cause nonlinear interference effects. The standing waves induced in the transmission system formed by the cylindrical shield of a coaxial cable and a conducting plane are examined theoretically and experimentally as a function of the shield-to-ground impedance at the end points only (Z1 and Z2 of Fig. 1). Ordinarily, standing waves are eliminated by terminating a guiding system in its characteristic impedance. In this situation, however, the exciting source (i.e., incident radiation) is distributed along the length of the transmission system."
"In the past measurements of connector RFI leakage have evaluated combinations of the connector and cable so that it has been difficult to separate the effects of the different leakage areas. The methods presented here enable the designer first to evaluate the leakage at the interface coupling with a variety of connector characteristics and then, separately, to obtain the cable RF leakage. Thus the effects of the varying parameters of connector design may be determined without being affected by the connecting cable leakage. RFI performance data are presented, covering the range of 150 kHz to 1000 MHz. A description of the measuring technique and its development is also included. A series of recommendations aimed toward reducing RFI leakage in multipin electrical connectors are given."
"High resistivity of titanium alloys (in the vicinity of 200 microohm-cm) requires special consideration of the role of airplane structure as a current return and as an electromagnetic shield. Experimental data and supporting analysis are presented. Voltage drops due to structure currents are larger in titanium than in aluminum airplanes. Return currents in structure are distributed widely instead of being relatively concentrated. For representative skin thicknesses, magnetic field shielding effectiveness is rather insignificant even at frequencies in the ADF range. Achieving electromagnetic compatibility in titanium airplanes will require greater than previous use of wire rather than of structure returns for susceptible circuits. To obtain a given magnetic field, isolation between a source and a receptor will require greater reliance on physical separation than on intrinsic magnetic field shielding of the structural material."
"A review of magnetic, shielding concepts and equations as applied to ideal shield configurations has provided a basis for the analysis of the shielding effectiveness of practical shielded enclosures to dc and VLF magnetic fields. The permeability of the shield material is considered as a function of the induction, and a significantly improved method of estimating the induction and permeability of the shield is presented. The effects of multiple shell geometry are given by the equations of this analysis, which are indeterminable with a transmission line analysis. The degrading effects of other departures from ideal shield materials and configurations are analyzed qualitatively; equations for estimating the magnitude of those effects are developed where possible."
"Shielding equations developed in a research program were used to generate data for use in the design of an optimum shield for a given set of constraints (a prescribed shielding level, minimum weight shield, etc.). Analysis consisted chiefly of computer processing of the modified equations. To reduce computer time, only symmetrical laminated shielding material was considered. Maximum shielding attenuation with respect to overall shield weight was considered for two cases, using the transmission theory of uniform shielding: 1) the lightest shield for a specified level of attenuation, and 2) the shield providing maximum attenuation within specified constraints of shield weight."
"The problem first confronting shielded enclosure designers is that of determining the correct type of metal to be used and its required thickness. The shield effectiveness equations that must be solved to answer this problem are at best complex and cumbersome to handle. Graphical techniques developed to date are inaccurate, time consuming, and, in general, very difficult to use. The shielding charts developed for this presentation offer a simple, rapid method for solving the shielding problem in minutes. The examples herein demonstrate the great power and scope of the charts."
"An RF shielding design procedure based on a nonuniform transmission-line analogy of shielding is presented. The theory treats the propagation of an EM wave through the walls of a shielding enclosure as a path through the material itself in parallel with one or more paths through defects, seams, or other discontinuities in the shielding structure. Data necessary for the design of a shield are presented in the form of material factors, seam factors, size factors, and others. Factor dependency on frequency is discussed. Two typical design examples are given."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Papers published in IEEE Transactions on Electromagnetic Compatibility  should be designed to serve the members of IEEE and G-EMC. This can best be done by 1) maintaining technical standards, 2) publishing tutorial articles of timely interest, and 3) publishing new developments in the various areas of interest to the Group."
"Lists the institutions that support this publication."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"The special filter issue (consisting of 25 tutorial, state of the art, and summary papers) aims systematically at converting filtering for EMC from an art into a science. In contrast to conventional filtering, operating under well defined simple premises, filtering for EMC often requires a broad perspective for lack of normally occurring constraints. The first part, pertaining to filtering conditions where the power spectra of signal and noise are clearly separable, is divided into two major groups: 1) impedance matched filtering (microwave, active analog, and digital filters); and 2) power-line filters operating under strong bias and having severe interfacial mismatch (juxtaposing the various solutions of handling and measuring such common situations). The second part deals with filter conditions for which the power spectra of signal and 'noise' overlap. It treats three groups: 1) directional filters (specifically using helicon waves); 2) principles of frequency-selective limiters; and 3) correlation technique and signal design (four papers deviating from the conventional premise of white Gaussian noise)."
"Microwave filters are useful to combat radio-frequency interference. A large variety of filter structures and design techniques are now available to the designer. The purpose of this paper is to review these filter types, both for high-power and low-power applications."
"A review of the modern network theory approach to microwave filter design based on Richards' transformation is given. Basic concepts are discussed, including the use of Kuroda's identities and the specialized theory of optimum filter forms. Applications of the theory presented to elliptic-function filters, special rejectiontype filters, and multiplexers are given. Throughout the presentation, emphasis is placed on basic methods and techniques rather than on detailed design procedures."
"For the first time a method of designing RC bandpass filters is presented. The method consists of two steps. The first step is a scheme to locate the necessary poles and zeros that are RC realizable to produce certain bandpass characteristics. The second step is the synthesis of RC networks to produce these poles and zeros. In the first step, the conformal transformati \\begin{equation*}s(z) = {\\left(\\frac{sn^{2}(z,k) - sn^{2}(\\alpha{K,k})}{sn^{2}(\\alpha{K,k})[1 - k^{2}sn^{2}(\\alpha{K,k})sn^{2}(z,k)]}\\right)}^{1/2}\\end{equation*} is used to map the complex frequency s plane into a rectangle in the z plane such that the passband becomes one side, and a part of the negative real axis becomes the opposite side of the rectangle. In the z plane, if poles are located along certain portions of the border and zeros in the interior of the rectangle, certain passband and stopband behavior can be achieved. Among the useful characteristics obtainable by this scheme, the following are three outstanding examples: 1) characteristics that are equal-ripple in the passband and monotonic in the stopband; 2) characteristics that are equal-ripple in the passband and have a number of transmission zeros in the stopband; and 3) characteristics with a maximum gain at the band center and monotonic elsewhere. The steepness of attenuation outside the passband can be altered by a change in the numbers of zeros at the origin and infinity."
"Low impedance levels and/or large system time constants lead to network realizations with large total reactance values in ordinary passive and active RC synthesis. It is shown how active RC networks may, instead, be designed, in which one may freely a priori specify the total capacitance and the input and output resistances. The basic design philosophy is to assign relatively faroff poles to the passive part of the system. Feedback is used to obtain the desired close-in (large time constant) system poles. In one method, employing a single negative-impedance-converter, any number of system poles may be simultaneously realized. However, the output is very sensitive to variations in active and passive parameter values. Also, the negative-impedance-converter must act as such over the bandwidth of the passive part of the network, which part is much larger than that of the system as a whole. A second approach is far more practical. It employs a cascade of isolated canonic second-order structures, each of which realizes a pair of system poles. The resulting design is much less sensitive to active and passive parameter variations, and is much easier to tune. The structure used is especially suitable for narrow-band filtering. Also, the active element bandwidth need only be of the same order of magnitude as that of the system poles. Design relations are developed and optimized with respect to a figure of merit ASA, being the product of amplifier gain required and system sansitivity to amplifier gain variations."
"The purpose of this paper is to provide an introduction to the use of digital filters. Their capabilities and limitations are discussed, as well as application requirements as direct replacements for conventional active or passive filters in real-time situations. Basic operating principles are described, and amplitude and phase characteristics are illustrated. The technique offers many advantages among which are very accurate drift-free operation, ease in changing filter characteristics, and small physical size. In addition, a linear phase characteristic can readily be obtained with some types of digital filters. A design example of a linear phase low-pass filter is included."
"The frequency domain of wide-band linear sampleddata filters is considered. The sampled-data filter is termed \"wideband\" when the frequency range of useful approximation to its continuous counterpart approaches half the sampling frequency. Sampled-data filter representations for continuous filters can be obtained using several different design procedures.[1] A particular design method utilizing the bilinear transformation is developed. The method is especially useful in designing wide-band sampleddata filters which exhibit relatively flat frequency-magnitude characteristics in successive pass- and stop-bands. Filters of this type are widely used in network simulation and data processing problems.[2] The design method possesses two chief advantages over the standard z transform.[3] The first is that the transformation used is purely algebraic in form. This means it can be applied easily to a continuous filter having a rational transfer characteristic expressed in either polynomial or factored form. The second advantage is the elimination of aliasing[4] errors inherent in the standard z transform. Thus, the sampled-data filter obtained by this design method exhibits the same frequency response characteristics as the continuous filter, except for a nonlinear warping of the frequency scale. Compenation for this warping can be made by a suitable frequency scale modification. Some of the more common filter networks to which the design method can be applied effectively are the Butterworth, Bessel, Chebyshev, and elliptic-filter structures. The design method consists first of obtaining a rational transfer characteristic for a continuous filter that satisfies the design specifications."
"In digital filtering, the spectrum is shaped using digital components as the basic elements. Although the physical realization is different, the aims of digital filtering are, thus, the same as those for continuous filtering. It is likely that digital filtering, already in extensive use for computer simulation of analog filters, will find increasing real-time application. Real-time digital filters have several advantages over their analog counterparts: a greater degree of accuracy can be attained in their realization; a larger variety can be built since certain realization problems (akin to negative elements) do not arise; no special components are needed to realize filters with time-varying coefficients; and they are of particular utility at very low frequencies where analog components become large and unwieldy. In contrast to the linear differential equations of continuous filter theory, linear digital filter theory is based on the mathematics of linear difference equations. Using the z-transform calculus, a number of digital filter design techniques are discussed. One technique is useful in designing a digital filter whose impulse response is like that of a given analog filter, whie other techniques are suitable for designing digital filters meeting specified frequency response criteria. Another yields filters with linear phase, specified frequency response, and controlled impulse response duration. The effect of digital arithmetic on digital filter behavior is considered."
"A review is made of methods for EMI suppression for relay coil transients and switch contact arcing. The mechanism of generation of coil transients and contact arcing is described briefly. A relay solenoid is controlled in actuation by a toggle switch S. In closing, the switch exhibits bounce characteristics which cause momentary deenergizing of the relay solenoid, with the subsequent momentary oscillatory transients and switch-bounce current breaking, reflected as switch contact arcing during bounce. When S is opened, the stored energy (L12/2) is returned to the circuit and is dissipated as power losses in the relay core and switch arcing. In addition, the collapsing magnetic field generates a transient, or counter EMF, voltage expressed as E = _L(di/dt) volts. As S opens, an arc appears due to breaking current which quenches as the switch opens further. The arc is restruck as the coil voltage transient increases due to the sudden current changes, and the process continues until the coil current reaches zero. It may be noted, when viewing the transient on an oscilloscope, that a series of sawtooth changes reflected from the switch arcing is observed, rather than the expected exponential rise. The general description of this generated EMI is that it is broadband in frequency and impulsive in nature. It can be coupled into the ac power circuits via the power supply, or radiated from the line, the solenoid, and switch."
"A vexing problem in electromagnetic compatibility is the effective filtering of conducted interference from power-supply lines. Because of unavoidable and severe mismatch, conventional suppression filters operate only conditionally; such filters are often so large that they are omitted from the system. Three new classes of power-line filters without these limitations are described. They are active, truly lossy, and ruggedized ceramic filters, covering the frequency range from direct current to microwaves. Present filter test methods are shown to be misleading and are replaced by a rather simple realistic test. There is a set of filter classes that is rapidly growing in importance and, by necessity, is characterized by the absence of impedance matching. Without matching, all the elegant filter theories developed invalidate the very premise upon which they were based, and the theories are wholly inadequate and misleading. Such conditions exist for filters inserted into power lines; power wiring is contrasted with impedance-matched cabling that interconnects subsystems for irformation handling and for which conventional filtering is fully adequate. Suppression of conducted EMI (electromagnetic interference) constitutes an essential part of EMC (electromagnetic compatibility) and has, thus far, been frustrating and inadequate. Conventional EMI or RFI (radio-frequency interference) filters, because of interface mismatching are, in general, undependable. Another basic difference of power-line filters, as contrasted with information handling filters, is that they are strongly biased by the very power they have to pass. Three generic types of filters are described and discussed in some detail."
"A new class of \":distributed constant\" filters has been recently developed using the normal propagation path of the electrical current in a wire, a cable, or a line to suppress interference. The three basic characteristics are the following: 1) Instead of using lumped reactive components (inductors, capacitors) connected to the wire, one superposes the suppressive effect to the normal straight and flexible conductor without any additional components. 2) The problem of mismatch at the interfaces with the generator and with the load (for example, a classical π filter connected to a reactive load) is nonexistent, because the suppression is due to an absorption of the critical frequency components. The Q factor of such a line is substantially equal or less than unity in the frequency range considered. 3) In the case of nonsheathed cables (general case), if the suppression of the conducted interference is sufficiently high along the line (for example, a 20-dB attenuation is obtained for a linelength equal to a tenth of the wavelength at the considered frequency), radiation and induction of parasitic frequencies is automatically suppressed. The necessary absorption can be introduced on the cable or the line by using separately or together three different physical effects: 1) Absorption due to magnetic and dielectric losses. These losses are achieved by the use of special products, like magnetic ferrites with high Fe and Zn content, semiconductive and ferroelectric dielectrics, and with bulk or synthesized dispersive effects."
"This paper presents the theory and application of lumped-image parameter reactive filter networks, absorptive-type filter networks, and combined absorptive-reactive filter networks as conducted electromagnetic interference reduction circuits. A comparison of the passband characteristics by specific examples is given for filter configurations of the pi, T, absorptive, and absorptive-reactive type under implementation conditions of a fixed source impedance and a varying load impedance as encountered when filtering prime power sources feeding ac to dc converters. This paper illustrates the problem the design engineer faces when applying the usual data given in filter catalogs. The filter characteristics are presented for 50-ohm resistive source and load conditions because of MIL-STD-220A quality control testr equirements. A test configuration is recommended to determine the admittance transfer of a filter network, indicative of the networks performance characteristics under application conditions."
"The circuit model recently developed for a shield shows that a typical shield passing signals up to the order of 100 Hz could be scaled to pass frequencies up to 100 MHz. The theory whereby this could be done for transformers from loosely to tightly coupled is developed herein. The theory has been verified for the loosely coupled transformer at frequencies from 100 Hz to 1 MHz, and for a moderately coupled transformer at 24 MHz. Design information is provided."
"Due to the inadequacy of existing standards to yield meaningful filter insertion loss data, a survey of recent developments in measurement techniques is made. Four techniques of filter insertion loss measurements are discussed, and the advantages and disadvantages pointed out with the view of establishing an effective method of filter performance evaluation."
"Insertion losses of several different manufacturers' 100-ampere power filters were measured in the frequency range 100 Hz to 2 MHz and at a range of power current loads utilizing a newly developed current injection probe. The measurements were made using a technique which, in compliance with IEEE measurement standards, provides a constant voltage source in a filter-in filter-out measurement circuit, where source and load impedance parameters are known. Theoretically derived curves for the power filters installed in circuits with complex source and load impedance are compared to measured curves. Theoretically derived curves for current or voltage attenuation are also compared to insertion loss curves. Significant departures from the MIL-STD-220A specification curves were obtained using this new current injection probe measurement method. Strong saturation effects were found with several of the filters. Wide passband excursions were obtained as predicted by the theoretical treatment. The new measurement technique is described in terms of its relation to IEEE standard definitions of insertion loss. A discussion is given of present and proposed methods in relationship to what is felt is the most useful means of describing a filter's operational characteristics."
"The MIL-STD-220A 50-ohm resistive method of measuring filter insertion loss using buffer networks has successfully masked the deficiencies of filters for many years. The method of measuring filter insertion loss proposed herein overcomes all the shortcomings of previous standards. It can measure insertion loss with full-rated line currents flowing (up to 400 amperes), without being adversely affected by the heavy currents and without affecting the performance of the system. It can be clamped around filter lines at installations without disturbing the circuits under test and thus can measure filter performance working into realistic load and source impedances. Filters can be evaluated using load and source impendance conditions selected as preferred from tenths of an ohm, to conjugate matched, to complex-resistive-reactive combinations, and to 50 ohms as desired. Any type of filter can be tested from lumped element to absorptive, active, or ceramic. Of major importance is the fact that this technique can also evaluate in the passband where filter insertion loss and gain is of great interest. These advantages are combined in a system that is capable of completing measurements quickly."
"The feasibility of two methods for determining the worst-case insertion loss of power-line interference filters is demonstrated. The first method makes use of injection and detection probes (transformers) which introduce an extremely small impedance (L ≈50 nH, R ≈ 3 mΩΩ) into the test circuit. The second method does not use injection and detection probes, thus eliminating their problems. Both methods maintain the high Q of the test circuit and permit interfacial resonances to occur between the power-line and filter interface impedances. A conventional filter and a lossy filter were measured by both methods. Large resonances, including a negative insertion loss at 150 kHz, were measured in the stopband of the conventional filter. No resonances were detected in the stopband of the lossy filter. Measurements with the two test methods differed by only a few dB."
"The most important requirement of a power-line filter is its insertion loss under load. This paper discusses methods of extending and improving the technique of measuring insertion loss as specified in MIL-STD-220A. It discusses present equipment limitations in MIL-STD-220A that restricts full-load tests to frequencies above 100 kHz and limits maximum current to 100 amperes. However, it is realized that MIL-STD-220A is the only available specification at present. Therefore, the paper discusses methods of extending the MIL-STD-220A technique for measuring the insertion loss of filters for frequencies as low as 14 kHz and under loads as high as 200 amperes. A new buffer network that allows such measurements is described. In addition, a method is discussed for improving voltage regulation and reducing distortion of the power-line waveshape caused by power filters. These are two parameters which have been totally ignored when specifying power filters and which have been found to cause considerable electrical problems after installation."
"The two current probe technique of measuring conducted radio-frequency interference is a radical departure from conventional measurement techniques. The technique evolved from a dissatisfaction with present techniques, due to the lack of sufficient information obtained from measurements concerning the source of the interference. Normally, the wires concerned when testing for conducted interference are 60-Hz power lines of the two conductor type. If a pair of conductors comprising a power cord is considered as a transmission line, the factors which determine its performance at radio frequencies are primarily the wire length and loading. In practice, power lines do not have readily described configurations, which makes a transmission-line analysis extremely difficult. As a result, no attempt to analyze the situation is made at all. Usually, a line impedance stabilization network (LISN) is inserted into the line and the noise voltage developed is measured across a 50-ohm internal resistor which is effectively placed across the line. Thus, the only information obtained is a noise voltage which existed across a resistor at the time of measurement, but is nonexistent after the test. The noise voltage existing across the line after the LISN has been removed remains unknown. As a matter of fact, it cannot even be calculated, since the line characteristics are unknown. Thus insufficient information is the reason for pursuing the current probe techniques. The two current probe technique of measuring conducted interference overcomes the limitations of the LISN technique by supplying more information about the line."
"Ferrite isolators and circulators are well known at microwave frequencies but are low-frequency limited and cannot be used in the HF region (below 100 MHz). A different approach to the basic nonreciprocal mechanism is reported here. This approach makes use of solid-state plasma waves, so-called helicon waves, that are nonreciprocal by their nature. Isolators using these helicon waves have been built in the 5-to 15-MHz range with great success and a helicon circulator has been demonstrated for the first time. This paper describes the mechanism by which these devices work and discusses their results. It is pointed out that in addition to helicon isolators and circulators, many other interesting and useful devices using helicon waves are possible."
"The frequency-selective limiter is presented as an adaptive filter system element. The operating mechanisms of various types of frequency-selective limiters are described and classified. The transient response, small-signal suppression, and intermodulation characteristics are presented for comparison. The application of frequency-selective limiters in particular EMI situations is discussed, and required device parameters are shown to depend on the application."
"Correlation analysis is a convenient technique for deyrtmining the spectral characteristics of a signal or the similarity of two different signals. One point of a correlation function is the long-term average of the product of two functions of time. The complete function is generated when the delay between the two time functions is varied. For example, if one voltage V1(t) and another voltage V2(t _ r), where r represents a finite and variable delay, are continuously multiplied together and the product fed into a low-pass filter, then the filter's output closely approximates the true mathematical correlation function. If V2; is identical to V1; in every respect except for the delay r, the result is the autocorrelation function. If V1; and V2; are totally different functions, then the result is the cross-correlation function. The outputs in both cases are functions of the delay time r. Mathematically for autocorrelation \\begin{equation*}C_{11}(r) = \\lim_{T\\rightarrow\\infty}\\frac{1}{2T}\\int^T_{-T}V_1(t)V_1(t - r) dt\\end{equation*} for cross correlation \\begin{equation*} C_{12}(r) = \\lim_{T\\rightarrow\\infty}\\frac{1}{2T}\\int^T_{-T}V_1(t)V_2(t - r) dt \\end{equation*} An instrument, therefore, that does this integrating process will show whether correlation exists between two signals and, if so, when maximum correlation takes place. In practice, the averaging process indicated in the above equations is performed only for a time longer than the longest period in signals f1(t) and f2(t). Autocorrelation is useful for the detection of an unknown periodic signal in the presence of noise or to measure some particular band of signal or noise frequencies."
"This paper discusses the use of matched filters in the suppression of cochannel interference. Attention is particularly focused on matched filters which exhibit a large time-bandwidth product (i.e., spread spectrum systems). For these cases, the output signal-to-interference power ratio is determined for any type of interfering signal. The central limit theorem also allows the determination of error probabilities for these cases. In the determination of error probabilities, two receiver configurations have been employed, one a completely linear receiver employing a simple threshold and the other a receiver which uses an envelope detector followed by a threshold decision mechanism. The results of a preliminary investigation of the low-time band-width case have also been discussed and show that smaller amounts of processing gain can also be obtained for this case. A tabulated summary of the gains available for 81 signal and interference cases has been given."
"The theory of filters based on sine and cosine functions leads to frequency filters. They can be implemented almost ideally by coils and capacitors. The arrival of integrated circuits imposes new requirements that are hard to meet by frequency filters: coils are undesirable, and no tuning and no temperature compensation should be required. It is reasonable to look for a theory of filters based on other functions that are more suitable to the demands of integrated circuits, rather than to try to adapt frequency filters to the new technological requirements. Sequency filters based on Walsh functions can be implemented by integrated circuits about as ideally as frequency filters by coils and capacitors."
"The white Gaussian noise-limited channel so often assumed by system designers is encountered less and less in practice as the density and sophistication of modem communications increase. Long-range radio communications in particular tend to be limited by interference rather than by receiver noise; for that reason, the design of the signal waveform has great impact on system performance. A waveform that shows particular promise for channels such as satellite relay and HF radio is swept FM or \"chirp\" modulation. The chirp waveform is characterized in Fig. 1. A carrier is swept in frequency over a band W during a sweep interval T. The sweeps shown are linear and assume a square amplitude envelope of unity value, although nonlinear sweeps and shaped envelopes may be used. The sweep slope W/T may be used to convey information in a variety of ways, the simplest being +W/T for binary 1 and -W/T for binary 0 (slope-shift keying SSK). Higher order alphabets can be represented by different slopes, and amplitude can be added if desired. SSK will usually be most efficient, reserving the distinguishability of different slopes for the purpose of defining channels or addresses in multiple-access applications. The value of chirp modulation derives from its efficient use of available bandwidth and transmitter power in combating multipath and other forms of interference, including the \"clutter\" of other transmissions in multiple-access systems."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Papers published in IEEE Transactions on Electromagnetic Compatibility  should be designed to serve the members of IEEE and G-EMC. This can best be done by 1) maintaining technical standards, 2) publishing tutorial articles of timely interest, and 3) publishing new developments in the various areas of interest to the Group."
"Lists the institutions that support this publication."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"A harmonic analysis is performed and the radiation patterns are deduced for an antenna system comprised of two parallel half-wave dipoles with parasitic directors above a reflecting plane where the mutual interactions of all the elements are considered. This work represents an extension of a previous analysis in which only a single dipole with a director above a reflecting plane was considered [1]. The results illustrate the importance of the radiated interference at the harmonic frequencies that may be introduced when sufficient harmonic power is available at the antenna input. As a criterion to determine the \"worst case\" situation, the antenna is assumed to be matched and fed with equal power at each of the harmonics. The resultant field patterns show the following characteristics. 1) The presence of the director introduces side lobes at the fundamental frequency in both the meridional and azimuthal planes. These lobes peak at levels of 9 and 14 dB down, respectively, when compared with the density in the forward direction. 2) The higher the harmonic, the smaller the role played by the presence of the directors. At the seventh harmonic a maximum 1.5-dB difference in value exists when compared with the same antenna configuration when the directors are absent. 3) In the meridional plane at the higher harmonics, side lobe densities exist (e.g., at the fifth and seventh harmonics) that are as intense as the power density in the forward direction for the fundamental frequency."
"A survey on short distance attenuations of MF, HF, and VHF radio waves a few meters above the ground surface has been carried out to find empiric reliable average attenuation laws, with their standard deviation. The results can be used to predict the ranges of communication systems placed near the ground and to fix the limits for the allowable interference fields produced by industrial, scientific, and medical (ISM) equipment."
"The problem of predicting the variation of the electric and magnetic field components as a function of radial distance at points relatively close to the source is of particular interest in electromagnetic compatibility investigations. The authors have recently had the opportunity to make experimental measurements of the rate of attenuation of electric and magnetic fields at points from 3 to 600 feet from the source at a number of different frequencies. The resulting data have application in RFI work as an aid for evaluating interference problems and estimating the effectiveness of radiation suppression measures."
"The need for linear dummy loads is established. It is indicated that nonlinear dummy loads generate predominantly oddorder harmnonics. A theoretical analysis is presented which demonstrates that an \"infinite\" coaxial cable with an infinite load (open circuit)at the output has an input impedance equivalent to the cable's characteristic impedance Z0. An equation is derived relating the voltage standing-wave ratio S, cable length h, and the cable attenuation constant ∝. The linearity of a cable load is compared with the linearity of \"typical \" commercially available loads and the commercial loads tested are found to generate 20 to 80 dB more third harmonic. Cable selection guidelines for a linear coaxial cable load are presented."
"A theory that predicts the magnitude of low-frequency magnetic fields near a current-carrying twisted-pair cable is developed. By asymptotically expressing the theoretical results, it is shown that the magnetic fields from a twisted-pair cable of pitch distance p decrease exponentially with the radial distance from the center of the cable. The asymptotically expressed result is verified experimentally for a radial distance as large as (3/2)p. At such a distance, the maximum fields from the cable are shown to be 50 dB below that from a two-wire line (two parallel wires), even though both the cable and the wire line are carrying the same amount of current."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Papers published in IEEE Transactions on Electromagnetic Compatibility  should be designed to serve the members of IEEE and G-EMC. This can best be done by 1) maintaining technical standards, 2) publishing tutorial articles of timely interest, and 3) publishing new developments in the various areas of interest to the Group."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"The author has developed a technique for rapid determination of the shielding effectiveness of any metal through use of the IBM remote access computing system (RAX). RAX consists of one central computer and numerous control terminals placed throughout Bell Aerosystems engineering areas. To obtain a matrix of shielding information versus frequency the engineer activates his terminal, inserts his program from the library file, and supplies the desired metal thickness, conductivity, permeability, and test distance. The terminal then prints a table of shielding effectiveness. The entire process can be accomplished in about four minutes. This paper includes several samples of output data, lists the program which was used, and shows how the engineer communicates with the machine to obtain the desired output."
"The errors introduced in the measured value of impulse bandwidth obtained by determining the area under the response curve are discussed. The required pulse width of a narrow pulse used to stimulate the impulse response of a linear network is also analyzed. The results are presented in terms of the integral-square error between the true impulse response and simulated response as a function of band-width-pulse-width product. The trapezoidal method of numerical integration as applied to this measurement is briefly discussed."
"Investigators have reported the existence of electric current in the exhaust plumes of rocket engines and have speculated that this current could generate a sufficiently high electrostatic potential on vehicles in space to interfere with or damage electronic subsystems or instrumentation. This paper identifies the source of the observed current, calculates its magnitude as a function of the engine parameters, and demonstrates that the rocket plume itself can discharge a vehicle in space and prevent buildup of dangerous potentials."
"The performance of broad band electrically small beamed receiving arrays operating in the high-frequency band (3 to 30 MHz) and in a random noise environment is studied. The concepts of system noise figure (SNF) and signal-to-noise ratio improvement factor (SNIF) are proposed as criteria for comparing one array antenna receiving system to any reference antenna system when the conditions of operation are defined. Graphical representations of SNIF for the two- and four-element antenna systems versus a single-element system are presented. SNIF is shown to depend on the geometry of the array, on the phasing network, and on the ratio of atmospheric noise power to internal system noise power."
"The precise prediction of spurious response levels in a superheterodyne receiver would greatly aid the receiver designer besides being necessary for the representation of a radio frequency interference environment. The power series is used to represent the nonlinear receiver mixer in order to obtain an expression for the receiver spurious response sensitivity. This sensitivity expression contains the power series coefficients and shows that the coefficient magnitudes must be known before the spurious response levels can be computed. Therefore, a method is developed to provide a solution for the power series coefficients of a typical mixer circuit configuration. In the analysis to determine the coefficients, the input voltage-output current loop equation is written for a crystal mixer equivalent circuit. This expression is expanded in a power series and then the reversion of a series technique is implemented to obtain the desired output-input expression in series form. The effects of the nonlinear element (diode) and the total circuit resistance are included in the results. Coefficient expressions are determined up to the ninth order in the manner described above and the level of each expression is computed versus the product α( IR + Iß) RT where α and IR are diode parameters, RT is the equivalent circuit resistance, and Iß, is the dc bias current. Also, the effect of diode bias upon spurious response sensitivity is considered and the results are plotted. The results show the mixer dc operating conditions which must exist in order to reduce spurious response sensitivity."
"Reactive bandpass and low-pass filters often exhibit spurious responses in the frequency region above the design passband. The spurious responses limit the effectiveness of the filter in preventing interference by out-of-band signals. A simple and inexpensive technique for reducing or eliminating these passbands is to add short sections of an appropriate lossy transmission line in series with the conventional filter. A significant size reduction of conventional transmission line reactive filters can also be realized along with the reduction or elimination of spurious passbands by combining a lossy dielectric with the conventional reactive elements. This paper discusses the application of lossy line filters in cascade with and integrated into conventional reactive filters. The design of lossy transmission line sections and wide-band impedance matching techniques are described."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"This index covers all technical items - papers, correspondence, reviews, etc. - that appeared in this periodical during the year, and items from previous years that were commented upon or corrected in this year. Departments and other items may also be covered if they have been judged to have archival value. The Author Index contains the primary entry for each item, listed under the first author's name. The primary entry includes the coauthors' names, the title of the paper or other item, and its location, specified by the publication abbreviation, year, month, and inclusive pagination. The Subject Index contains entries describing the item under all appropriate subject headings, plus the first author's name, the publication abbreviation, month, and year, and inclusive pages. Note that the item title is found only under the primary entry in the Author Index."
"This index covers all technical items - papers, correspondence, reviews, etc. - that appeared in this periodical during the year, and items from previous years that were commented upon or corrected in this year. Departments and other items may also be covered if they have been judged to have archival value. The Author Index contains the primary entry for each item, listed under the first author's name. The primary entry includes the coauthors' names, the title of the paper or other item, and its location, specified by the publication abbreviation, year, month, and inclusive pagination. The Subject Index contains entries describing the item under all appropriate subject headings, plus the first author's name, the publication abbreviation, month, and year, and inclusive pages. Note that the item title is found only under the primary entry in the Author Index."
"Papers published in IEEE Transactions on Electromagnetic Compatibility  should be designed to serve the members of IEEE and G-EMC. This can best be done by 1) maintaining technical standards, 2) publishing tutorial articles of timely interest, and 3) publishing new developments in the various areas of interest to the Group."
"Lists the institutions that support this publication."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"The author's prognostication of changes in the automation concept of the cement industry is as follows: 1) The total picture will include direct digital control with a computer operating final control devices directly and with manual backup instruments only. 2) It will include solid-state logic control elements which will replace the electro-mechanical relays conventionally used and will combine with the computer to share the logic chore. 3) The means of communication and control between the central control room and remote motor-control centers and process control devices will be by supervisory control and telemetering systems operating over a handful of two-conductor cables which will replace the myriad of control wires presently required. 4) Static ac motor controllers will completely revolutionize the present concept of motor-control centers by elimination of the magnetic contactor. 5) Sensors not in contact with the process material will have digital outputs, whereas the final control elements will be of the digital type and operated directly by the computer."
"The author surveys the voltage drops in various low-voltage wiring systems used in buildings to determine limiting conditions. The floor areas that can be covered are presented as a function of the location of the supply source and the voltage-drop allowance. An economical voltage-drop allowance for use as a design standard is determined."
"Some cement manufacturers have estimated that over half their plant equipment shutdowns are electrical in origin, although repair consumes only ten percent of the total downtime. If these electrically caused shutdowns can be reduced, total downtime of certain departments in a cement plant can be significantly decreased."
"As one of the largest users of power converter equipment in the world, Alcoa has had a profound interest in the development of the semiconductor power converter. This paper reviews the application of large converter equipment, starting with the first major unit installed in the United States at Alcoa's Badin Works in North Carolina, and traces operations to the present. Advantages of the silicon equipment as compared with other methods of power conversion, as well as some of the engineering problems encountered, are described from the user's viewpoint."
"Modern refinery process units require electrical power systems that do not have power interruptions. The backbone of a highly satisfactory 120-MVA system combines local generation with a power company captive dual substation (110 kV/12 kV) that serves dual feeders to area buses. It must be designed with the aid of computers to properly anticipate short-circuit duties, select and set protective relays, and provide adequate voltage regulation, especially during faults and switching. An adequate return on the investment in the system requires that the maintenance be organized, thorough, and technically competent. The system and its operating procedures must provide fault isolation in first zones of protection, and complete restoration of power to process units must be rapid and complete."
"Lightning, shorted conductors, line switching, and flashovers create voltage surges on the power lines serving an industrial plant. Electrical equipment in the plant, particularly high-voltage motors, can be damaged by these surges. The resulting loss of production, plus repair or replacement costs, make it imperative that adequate protection be provided against surges."
"Lightning, shorted conductors, line switching, and flashovers create voltage surges on the power lines serving an industrial plant. Electrical equipment in the plant, particularly high-voltage motors, can be damaged by these surges. The resulting loss of production, plus repair or replacement costs, make it imperative that adequate protection be provided against surges."
"The statement \"the power house is coming closer and closer to the point of utilization\" is frequently heard by engineers concerned with the design and operation of modem industrial plants. This has become particularly true with respect to the design and application of the equipment on 600-volt power and lighting utilization systems in manufacturing plants."
"A large section of Manhattan still requires dc power as well as the ac grid network. This dc power has been supplied from rotary-converter substations. The city is now in the process of changing from the rotary converters to rectifier units located in under-the-street vaults. These silicon rectifier units are submersible, oil-cooled, and are connected directly to the 208Y/120-four-wire ac network. The 250-kW 125/250-volt dc output is then connected to the dc distribution system. The application, design of the unit, and analysis of the dc network is discussed in this paper."
"The lighting designer of today has available several new lighting fixtures and light sources. These new products require less maintenance and make it possible to get more light in and around a work area. This makes for an easier and safer place in which to work."
"The author describes the commutation process in forced commutation inverters so that similarities and differences between techniques can be evaluated. There are few, if any, short cuts in commutation; commutation is a power function and, as such, should be a major consideration in the economic design of inverter circuits. Other than by reducing turn-off time in semiconductor switches, the problem will not change significantly."
"The 1965 National Electrical Code (NEC) contains requirements for the installation of electrical wiring and equipment in buildings and on private premises where combustible gases or vapors may be present."
"A recently developed system for the detection and subsequent removal of frost in forced air remote evaporator refrigerators is described. Unlike present timed methods, this system functions only when defrosting is necessary."
"This paper examines the influence of home laundry appliance specifications on the performance of the drive motor. Motor performance readout from an analog computer is used to demonstrate design and application relationships associated with temperature rise, motor length and output, starting torques and currents, and switching torque considerations. Continuation of the cooperative, progressive relationship between motor and appliance designers will assure future improvement in matching motor performance to appliance needs."
"Provides notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"This page or pages intentionally left blank."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"The paper discusses new automation systems as opposed to the old. The old system copies the actions of men running the process; the new way takes into account, by means of the computer's huge calculating power, all disturbances that act on the process, in order to avoid unpredictable disturbances. The ultimate goal in this process is the mathematical model."
"A high power capacity frequency conversion system that employs a unique combination of new semiconductor devices has recently been developed and placed in full scale operation. The classical cycloconverter in this embodiment has been reconfigured with thyristors (or silicon controlled rectifiers) in the power circuit with monolithic integrated circuitry for controls. The previous short-comings of the cycloconverter have been overcome by new circuit concepts resulting in dramatic reductions in size, weight, and complexity. The fully practical new frequency converter is expected to become a significant factor in many types of power conversion and control systems. Particular emphasis is currently being placed on the application to high-performance terrestrial and rail vehicles."
"System reliability is to a considerable extent influenced by the manner in which individual system components are interconnected and the protective functions are incorporated into the design. How well these factors have been considered in the design stage will come to light only in the presence of a system disturbance since most systems, even the substandard ones, usually operate fairly successfully in the steady-state condition. The real test of a reliable system, however, is measured by its transient performance; that is, the ability to 1) remove only the faulted circuit; 2) remove the fault quickly to help assure that the remainder of the system will be transiently stable; and 3) clear the fault completely."
"In a modem integrated industrial complex, electricity is the prime source of power. Therefore, unscheduled interruptions of the flow of electricity will result in serious economic loss. One way to lessen the impact of an abnormal condition on the electrical system is to maintain the electrical protective devices so that the protection designed into the system will always be available. A modem cement plant learned that many of its electrical protective devices were malfunctioning after several years of operation with a maintenance program that excluded electrical operation of protective devices. Basic principles of operation, reasons for maintenance, and maintenance techniques for electrical protective devices are presented."
"The control of thyristors used in alternating-voltage regulators employing synchronous tap changing is normally complicated when there are wide variations in load power factor. The modified form of tap changing circuit described here simplifies these control problems and because of the different operating mode produces less distortion in the output waveform. The essential feature of this circuit is that a tapped inductor carrying a controlled direct current is connected in the output circuit of the regulator. This inductor prevents tap-to-tap short circuits and effectively provides an additional output voltage level."
"In the past few years pipeline operations have become more complex and are demanding that more complex functions and operations be performed by supervisory control systems. This in turn means that the system must become very flexible. The author shows where a special-purpose computer can fill the gap between the regular hardwired master and a general-purpose computer. There are many systems that need varying degrees of flexibility yet do not warrant using a general-purpose computer which would be prohibitive pricewise. This is a perfect situation for the special-purpose computer. The primary advantage of a special-purpose computer, also called a storage programmed system over a hardwired system, is flexibility that allows the internal process and output to be changed through programming rather than through a physical modification of the equipment, such as going in and changing wires."
"Recent field tests on motors in service on pipelines and powerhouse systems have shown that the switching surge voltage appearing at the motor terminals during initial energization for starting frequently reach magnitudes approaching 2.0 per unit normal crest line-to-ground operating voltage with time-to-crest as short as 0.2 As. This is more severe than normally believed and may endanger turn-to-turn insulation."
"The state-of-the-art programming appliance timer used in washing machines and dishwashers is a bargain, so much a bargain that it is allowed to dictate the functional design of many household appliances. The electronic escapement takes the best features from this timer and combines them with an electronic timing circuit that allows a new range of flexibility. Low-level sensors of many varieties and continuously adjustable timing bases are readily adaptable for work with the electronic escapement. Circuits are shown and examples given showing how the use of the electronic escapement can provide unique circuitry to accomplish control functions otherwise nigh impossible."
"The high ripple content and commutation problems associated with the semiconverter circuit have made it unattractive for high-power dc motor armature applications. Techniques that overcome these difficulties allow the superior input and output power characteristics of the circuit to be realized with attractive economic benefits."
"Five years of operations have proved that absorption-refrigeration gas processing plants can be economically and successfully fully automated for unattended operations. The automation system protects plant equipment from damage, prevents undesirable operations, alarms personnel, and signals the cause of the alarm. The plant process is similar to other plants, and thus the instrumentation should be applicable to other plants. Dc 24-volt control systems have proved to be simpler and more flexible than 115-volt ac control circuits. Plant downtime from electric outage can be reduced by use of sequence starting of electric motors rather than five-second time delays. A solid-state relay of voltage divider system, gated transistor, and semiconductor diode are used to actuate controls and alarms. Future systems utilizing computers will require control circuits similar to those presented."
"The author comprehensively treats the design factors considered in matching control systems to process control devices employed in the Portland cement industry. New developments in the areas of fluidic, SCR, and hydraulic power units employed as final element actuators are discussed and areas of application suggested."
"This paper describes the preliminary results of a long-term mathematical investigation of the dynamics of the consumable electrode (gas metal arc) arc-power supply system. In welding terminology, the consumable electrode process is referred to as the gas metal-arc or Mig process. In particular, the paper describes the effects of periodic variations of various system parameters on a 1/16-inch diameter steel electrode shielded by argon with a five percent oxygen addition."
"The line-voltage thermostat is the room thernostat most commonly used with in-space electric heaters. It may be used to control a radiant, natural convection, or fan-type heater rated up to 5 kW. The characteristics of the heater effect the thermostat performance and the resultant control of room temperature. This paper presents test data from an investigation of ten different makes and models of thermostats used to control six different in-space heating systems in a specially constructed test room. Test results are reported in terns of air temperature distribution, temperature swing, and cycling rate. The test results indicate that the thermostat operates as an ambient modulated thermal timer that cycles due to the intemal I2R losses in the switch. A graphic representation is presented to explain the excessive droop characteristic observed."
"The switch-on and switch-off losses of reverse blocking triode thyristors, commonly called SCRs, cannot be neglected when operated at high repetition rates and high rise of on-state current di/dt. One way to show these effects on the device rating is to plot peak allowable on-state current versus di/dt, with repetition rate, case temperature, and duty cycle as the parameters. To help the user select a suitable heat sink, a second set of curves should be presented showing the energy dissipated by the device as functions of peak on-state current, di/dt, and pulse width."
"In the paper the author makes frequent reference to air conditioning for human comfort, yet the title restricts the subject to the \"thermal environment.\" An analysis of the paper indicates that \"temperature control\" is used synonymously with \"air conditioning.\" Such a limitation on the abilities of a heating and air-conditioning system would class that system with those discarded decades ago."
"Provides notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"In August 1966, the Steel Company of Canada's fourstrand rod mill was placed into operation. The mill has a nominal finishing speed of 8500 ft/min for no. 5 rod and will finish the rods to within one half of commercial rod tolerance. To produce this result a number of unique mechanical features and the most modern of electrical equipment was required. This paper is concerned primarily with a discussion of the electrics and some of the salient features, but first the mill proper will be reviewed."
"In the past, coal mines have received their electric power from large centralized stations consisting of rotating equipment or mercury-arc rectifiers which furnished low-voltage dc power which was distributed on large copper conductors to the working area of the mine. The \"solid-state era\" entered the coal industry in the late 1950s and made compact, decentralized, simple power rectification possible. The new developments in rectifier design were so successful that soon larger, more complex, highly protected units were replacing the older, less efficient methods of conversion. At the beginning of the solid-state era conventional dc circuit breakers were too large to meet low-height mining requirements. Molded case breakers were found to have sufficient speed, capacity, and reliability to fulfill electrical design requirements; therefore, molded case breakers made the first low-height solidstate rectifier designs possible. Low-profile mining equipment must be compact and designed to operate in damp, moist atmospheres prevalent in coal mines. Tests must be made to determine that the cooling air is not impeded and that all materials insure adequate insulation levels. Components must be mounted to offer the best possible cooling and still prevent electrical creepage problems."
"The advent of HVDC power transmission raises serious questions about the possible adverse effects of HVDC ground current on uncoated well casings and short pipelines. Model studies indicate that interference will be a problem near the ground electrodes. Proximity of well casings to the anodic ground electrode will be particularly harmful because corrosion is intensified toward the lower ends of the casings, where cathodic protection is most difficult."
"This paper codifies the usual and predictable causes of failures in electric motor windings as applied in the portland cement industry. It limits itself to the study of windings and associated components, and to the causes rather than the repair of failures. By the study of the causes it is hoped that the relating of cause to the known condition will spark programs of anticipatory preventive maintenance. This paper notes that proper prevention of trouble with a motor may well involve actions on equipment external to the motor proper, and points out certain causes of motor failure frequently overlooked when designing the drive and power package. It is written, in fact, from the point of view of the practical plant engineer and draws on the experience of the motor repair shop. Mention is made of the economics of repair versus replacement, and of predetermined procedures as being vital to effective preventive maintenance. The end goal is the elimination or reduction of downtime and lost production, and the reduction in the amount of incidental damage to the motor when failures do occur."
"Large motors rated above 600 volts are classified according to type, mechanical protection, and application. This paper discusses USASI (formerly ASA) and NEMA Standards for horsepower rating, speed, temperature rise, torques, load inertia, frequency of starting, variations from rated voltage and frequency, routine, and over-potential tests. IEEE Test Procedures are used to determine whether motors do conform to these standards. The National Electrical Code (NEC) includes design and installation procedures necessary for providing safety to personnel and equipment."
"Since 1940 the use of electrical energy in the petroleum industry has increased on the order of 1000 percent. In turn, the utilization of electrical systems and equipment operating at levels in excess of 600 volts has increased apace. Unfortunately, nationally recognized regulations or codes have not been developed at the same rate. Existing electrical regulations have been and still are designed largely to cover equipment operating at 600 volts or less."
"An earlier method for determining stability in electrothermal processes depended upon either a knowledge of GH-plane techniques or previously tabulated data. Neither may be conveniently available during such on-site operations as installation, commissioning, or maintenance. A new approach has been developed that involves only a simple geometric construction. If permanently displayed it constitutes a facile technique for stability evaluation in many applications of electric process heating."
"A control study of the cement manufacturing process has culminated in the installation of a direct digital control (DDC) system which automatically controls both the ball-mill blending of raw materials for kiln feed and the kiln-cooler combination. In each case, the control schemes were developed by determination of the process dynamics, computer simulation and analysis, and field application at the plant. The blending control scheme finally developed is based on measurement of ball-mill output composition with an X-ray analyzer, and on a concept of noninteracting feedforward-feedback control. The kiln-cooler control scheme utilizes conventional and advanced control techniques such as nonlinear, feedforward and adaptive compensations, and optimization. This control scheme includes coordinated loops for control of burning zone temperature by manipulation of fuel rate and/or kiln speed, for control of kiln exit temperature and oxygen by ID fan speed, and for maximization of production rate by trim manipulation of kiln speed. The control schemes are being applied at the plant with a DDC system which provides maximum operating flexibility with extensive simplification of the operator-computer interface. The direct digital control operating experience has been very favorable."
"The three-phase induction motor, at constant speed, can be represented by five loop voltage equations in terms of variable inductance coefficients and instantaneous winding currents. Voltage control by symmetrical triggering of inverse parallel connected pairs of thyristors in the stator winding branches causes the motor excitation voltages to be segments of sinusoids. Current conduction angle at a given speed depends on the triggering angle. The system currents reduce to a set of five first-order differential equations with periodically varying coefficients. No general solution of these is known but possible approaches are discussed. A numerical or analog approach seems desirable."
"The ability to use the versatile characteristics of the semiconductor inverter to achieve optimized control of a squirrel cage induction motor is demonstrated. The technique has been made possible during the past few years due to the development of fast, powerful, and efficient inverters. These, in turn, are the direct result of advances in semiconductor technology, which have produced thyristors with improved qualities and the advent of integrated electronics. If the slip of an induction motor is constrained and controlled to values below breakdown, high efficiency, high power factors, and moderate currents result in performance comparable to that of a dc machine. General expressions defining torque and involving the quantities of slip and excitation are easily derived. Excitation can be expressed in terms of volts per cycle, current, or flux. Torque can be controlled by adjusting slip or excitation or both in combination. The ability to control slip and escitation precisely and accurately depends on the inverter which is used. The pulse width modulated (PWM) inverter is an extremely effective motor controller accomplishing voltage and frequency adjustment in a single circuit. It is a fast, linear device; its response is virtually instantaneous. As a power amplifier it is comparable to the duel converter of dc systems, and its speed of response makes it applicable to virtually any feedback loop. In considering the mating of the motor and inverter, several principal factors are involved in the optimization of the system."
"The expanding field of supervisory control and digital telemetering has brought with it an increase in the speed at which data must be transmitted over communication channels with an accompanying increase in the complexity of such channels. This paper reviews the techniques currently used to transmit data over communication channels and some of the problems encountered when using such channels with supervisory and telemetering equipment."
"Remote radio alarm systems provide a practical approach to unattended production operations. The system affords a reliable and economical solution to remote malfunction detection in areas where operations are widely scattered or which are not readily accessible."
"Proliferation of fabric types in the household garment inventory has created a need for preferential treatment in the process of cleaning these garments. In top-loading washers, changing of the basket and agitator speed has become the more general means of limiting garment wrinkling commensurate with maximum water extraction and achieving maximum soil removal with minimum garment damage."
"This paper gives a short history of the National Fire Protection Association (NFPA), the publishers of the National Electrical Code (NEC). It indicates the procedures and time schedules used in revising the Code. It also gives a history of the formulation of the Code-Making Panels, their responsibilities, and how they operate. Included also is a brief description of some of the more important proposals that were considered."
"This page or pages intentionally left blank."
"Presents the front cover of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"The available quality and variety of present-day power equipment and the system design technology permit the tailoring of a system to meet the reliability requirements of the user. However, system planning must be reemphasized in power system design which has been of deteriorating reliability and not necessarily the most economical"
"Users must determine the degree of equipment and systems reliability that they require and can justify and must define their reliability requirements in their specifications. Manufacturers must establish reliability programs to determine how they can meet the users' reliability requirements. Industry must collect and publish equipment and system reliability data for use by both user and manufacturer."
"An outline of the electric power system and the present status of power system failures in Japan where \"wide area coordination\" is adopted, are described. To increase the reliability of the electric power system, it should be simple, streng, and flexible in its arrangement and also easy in its operation. Thus it is essential that it be composed as a well-balanced, powerful, and living system. According to this concept, an intensive study has been made on the system reliability, especially from the viewpoint of equipment and also of operation. Ten typical approaches to improve the system reliability in Japan are shown. The economic aspect, which is most important in improving the system reliability, is now under study. A comparison of the amount of investment with the expected profit is being undertaken."
"The components of industrial and commercial power distribution systems are subject to electrical breakdown. There are many factors which affect the exposure and the severity of the accident. The potential can be minimized by utilizing quality appratus well-suited for the application, adequately maintained, properly protected, and a well-organized safety practice. Never-theless, serious electrical breakdowns do occur to cause major financial losses. Most corporations have found it practical to insure, at least to some degree, to guarantee financial reliability. The various forms of casualty insurance applicable to power distribution systems are discussed. The all-inclusive broad coverage form of casualty insurance incorporating a reasonably large deductible feature is the most common type of contract. A progressive corporation relies on effective maintenance to minimize the preventable types of electrical breakdowns."
"The recent increase in energy output, average power, and reliability of some lasers has made them worthy of consideration for manufacturing operations. Pulsed lasers can be used for hole punching and spot welding. Low-power continuous output gas lasers can be used for a wide variety of applications, including optical alignment, interferometric precision measurements, and measurements of fluid flow velocity. Other continuous output lasers, such as the carbon dioxide gas laser, are capable of power outputs in excess of 103 watts at greater than 10 percent efficiency and can be used to cut materials in unique ways. Lasers show particular promise for use in automated operations, and the use of a light beam as a cutting agent eliminates the need for maintenance such as cleaning and sharpening."
"The ever expanding technology has provided many new methods and developments which are being applied to revolutionize the production of merchant bars and rods. The need for high-quality products, versatile operation, and increased productivity has resulted n application of modern techniques previously used only on primary metal rolling mills."
"A rapid growth of silicon controlled rectifier (SCR or Thyristor) dc drive applications has resulted from the many benefits derived by these equipments where adjustable speed of drive is required. These are areas normally served by conventional Ward Leonard M-G sets as well as eddy-current couplings. However, SCR drives are not exact equivalents of M-G sets and special considerations requiring some fundamental knowledge of this conversion technology must be made. This paper presents some of the application considerations regarding successful utilization of SCR drives. The paper will be divided into two parts: The first deals with the static power conversion equipment itself, its characteristics and benefits, as well as its effect on the dc drive motor. The second part deals with the effects of the SCR power conversion equipment on the power distribution system, with suggested approaches to certain problems that may arise, particularly as related to kilovar supply."
"The stored program digital computer has become a workhorse in control and data logging situations in a great diversity of industrial processes. Reliable equipment demonstrating impressive on-line performance has been carrying out a multitude of control tasks ranging from the pedestrian to the complex. One of the principle reasons for this success is to be found in the underlying design philosophy which emphasizes simplicity of both system and circuit design. A control processor exemplifying this design approach is the PRODAC 50 computer. Some insight into the particular appropriateness of this design to control applications is presented by means of a characterization of two specific applications and a brief look at and an analysis of the design itself."
"The Merchants Mutual Insurance Company Building in Buffalo, N. Y., is the result of an exhaustive study into building systems. After evaluating all available environmental systems, the architect and engineers chose an electric heat recovery system which provided maximum flexibility and the best air conditioning at the lowest operating cost. The studies undertaken in the initial phases of building design are discussed, as are the estimated operating costs prepared by the utility company. System diagrams explain the total electric operation of the building. Submetering of lighting, air-handling fans, air conditioning compressors, water circulating pumps, main duct heaters, sidewalk heaters, hot water heaters, air duct heaters, and unit heaters provide the basis for a report of the first year of operation of the electric heat recovery system. Total cost of electrical energy for all uses of the building averages 29 cents per square foot."
"A short review of the known methods of controlling the speeds of the section motors in a sectional drive for paper machines is described. In addition, a short description is given of the historical development of the sectional drive."
"Electromagnetic metal-forming is a new process that has been in practical use for the last six years. The optimized design of the electromagnetic forming system is rather involved because of the complex interdependence of all system parameters."
"Recent developments in energy conversion, including ever increasing use of controlled elements, have created new aspects with regard to power factor considerations. This paper describes and analyzes a novel approach to the reactive and distortive powers that characterize nonlinear control elements. It has been proved that these powers may be neutralized when using similar nonlinear elements which, however, are suitably interconnected."
"This paper brings forward and analyzes the practical power-electronic circuits. One of the more interesting configurations described is an inductive element in which, due to constrained reactive power flow, capacitive properties are achieved with regard to the supply network."
"Provides notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"This page or pages intentionally left blank."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"THE RELATION of electrical engineers to management functions, while it may vary in detail, is the same in principle as the relation of other technically trained men to management functions."
"Low-frequency electric currents of a few milliamperes flowing through the body cause muscular contractions. In the arm such an effect may make a subject unable to let go of a live conductor. The highest currents which 99.5 per cent of men and 99.5 percent of women are able to let go have been shown to be 9 and 6 mA, respectively. Currents somewhat larger than this, in the range of 20 to 40 mA, passing across the chest may arrest respiration leading to asphyxia, unconsciousness, and even death."
"This paper describes means for stepless speed control of induction motors, using silicon controlled rectifiers with delayed firing to vary the primary voltage, and Saturistors' in the motor secondary circuits to limit the rise in current at low speeds."
"Utilizing the unique properties of photovoltaic cells for color sensing provides a radically new concept for adaption to control and packaging processes. Integrated with conventional electronic circuitry they may be used for controlling many processes dependent upon color. This paper discusses the properties of photo-voltaic cells, concepts for use as color sensors, and potential areas of application in control processes."
"Embryonic technology was introduced in the United States late in 1959 with the development of \"pure fluid amplifiers.\" These devices purported to perform many of the functions previously considered part of the province of electronics. This was the beginning of the concept of fluidics, a technology concerned with logical control functions using fluid interactions to produce control signals. The philosophy, operation, application, and potential of fluidic devices will be discussed."
"An inverter using thyristors, commutated by small inductance and capacitance only, and having an output frequency range suitable for motor speed control, is developed. The circuit operates as the combination of a high-frequency inverter and a cycloconverter in a single stage. As a high-frequency inverter its commutation requirements are very simple. As a cycloconverter it holds its output frequency independent of variations in load and is controlled entirely by the gating circuits. The output has high-frequency ripples characteristic of the cycloconverter, and the inverter operates with a wide range of resistive inductive loads. The inverter circuit is analyzed, and the limitations on the load circuit are discussed. Characteristics of an experimental inverter built to work in the frequency range of 1 to 70 Hz are presented. Certain problems that are to be solved before applying this inverter for control of induction motor speed are also indicated."
"The accelerated trend toward the use of solid-state controlled power conversion equipment, as a replacement for the conventional Ward-Leonard motor generator set in direct current adjustable speed industrial drive systems, has focused attention on a number of undesirable side effects which detract from their outstanding advantages. These effects are due to the high ripple content in the rectified voltage output of the conversion units, which ' causes increased heat generation in the dc drive motor and adversely affects its ability to commutate armature currents without sparking at the brushes. These effects are described and analyzed for several basic configurations of converter power circuits. The use of a laminated steel frame motor construction instead of the conventional solid steel frame ring to miniimize these effects is discussed."
"The utility should supply all the power requirements of the customer without load control unless the customer elects to purchase interruptible power."
"There is an accelerating trend toward the development of integrated circuit designs which offer the control industry complete functional building blocks on a single semiconductor chip. This paper describes the results of one such design for the ON-OFF control function, the TRIGAC zero crossing switch. The TRIGAC, when combined with an SCR or TRIAC power switch and a small number of passive components, performs all of the signal processing required for the interface between a 10-mW sensor (bilateral or unilateral) and load circuits of up to 5 kW. (This range may be extended to 200 amperes or more with a simple external pulse amplifier.)"
"Results of experimental noise reduction work performed with an in-room type air conditioner is presented. Emphasis is placed on what can be achieved in the way of noise reduction by applying basic techniques in a rather straightforward fashion as a \"first cut\" at the problem."
"The paper presents a design discussion of those factors that are important in arriving at a tentative permanent magnet motor design for a rechargeable, cordless appliance."
"A report on the economic and technical development of refrigerators and freezers in Europe over the past decade as well as an outlook on future trends are given."
"A discussion of the requirements and problems encountered in designing fast charging systems for nickel-cadmium cells is presented including discussion of some of the special cells available."
"System requirements for domestic electronic ovens are outlined with emphasis on low cost and long life. A low-voltage magnetron permits operation from a voltage doubler supply, thus avoiding use of an expensive plate transformer. Magnetron design factors include frequency, power, and tolerance to a wide range of load impedance. A complete RF generator is described which meets the desired specifications. This paper is directed to oven designers. Emphasis will be on RF generator characteristics that influence the oven design."
"This paper deals with the application of a reciprocating hermetic compressor to a room air-conditioner. This application in a particular unit has a definite affect on the life expectancy of the compressor. A review is made of the ideal refrigeration cycle for a hermetic compressor. The cycle is approached in the simple household refrigerator design and is compared to the refrigeration cycle for a room air-conditioner; the deviations in the two applications are noted. The designer uses this information for the mechanical construction details of the compressor. A hermetic compressor operating in a heat pump has a wide range of refrigerant mass flow. The precautions required for the use of the compressor in this application are reviewed. The Btu/W used as a performance factor for a compressor can vary as much as 100 percent. This is illustrated by the use of a compressor curve sheet."
"Provides notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"The effectiveness of an analog computer (electronic differential analyzer) in studying the performance of a rectifier-inverter-induction motor drive system is demonstrated. Computer diagrams are not given. However, methods of simulating the system components sufficient to describe their dynamic and steady-state behavior are described and references cited. Computer recordings are compared with results obtained from a prototype of an actual drive system. In particular, computer and test results showing the six-phase rectifier output voltage, filter inductor current, filter capacitor voltage, inverter current, as well as the stator voltage and current of the induction motor are compared. The facility of the analog computer in predicting the behavior of a large involved drive system is demonstrated."
"The selection of adjustable-frequency motor drive inrters requires a recognition not only of motor shaft loading but of motor characteristics, of solid-state harmonic waveforms, and of inverter capabilities. The process of selection is further complicated by a lack of industry standard ratings. The functional details of specifying, selecting, and comparing are discussed."
"In any motor control system consisting of more than one SCR phase-controlled variable voltage power supply, interaction can occur. Interaction within a system can result from several forms of interference: 1) high rates of current rise in the load di/dt which generate voltage wave fronts in excess of the SCRs withstand capability dv/dt; 2) transients generated in the system, coupling into the control, trigger, or gate circuits causing an SCR to conduct; 3) supply line distortion due to high reactive lines, causing degradation in system performance."
"A brief historical background to vacuum contactors development is given. Comparisons are made between air and vacuum arc extinction, and a successful vacuum contactor design is described. Details of field experience are given. Particular reference is made to improvement in dynamic braking performance made on a 2300-volt rubber mill drive. Suggestions are made for further improvement, and a low-tension plug braking vacuum contactor starter is discussed."
"Typical large silicon rectifier dc power supplies for electrochemical lines have ratings of 20 000 to over 300 000 amperes, at voltages of 50 to 1000 volts. The operating efficiency of such installations is of major economic importance, and experience has shown that the use of high-accuracy current regulation can substantially improve efficiency. Regulation is required to compensate for ac supply fluctuations and electrochemical cell or potline characteristics variations. Underload tap changing transformers provide an economical and highly efficient means of varying the rectifier dc output voltage. Control resolution, however, is relatively limited due to the finite voltage steps between taps, and precautions must generally be taken to avoid unnecessary tap changer operations in order to achieve reasonable operating periods without contact maintenance. Several techniques for achieving high-accuracy current regulation with tap changer controlled silicon rectifier power supplies are described. One approach utilizes partial range saturable reactors to provide vernier control between tap changer steps and a fast response feedback amplifier-driver to give essentially continuous high-accuracy (0.1 to 0.5 percent) current regulation. Another method controls the tap changer by means of an error integrating or reset amplifier technique which ignores minor short-tenn current fluctuations but maintains the average value over several hours of operation to within a fraction of a percent of the preset value."
"A linear general-purpose SCR control amplifier is presented in this paper. This control amplifier is composed of a fire-control circuit and a \"bridge\" power output circuit. The input signal is used to control the firing angle of the two inverse parallel pairs of SCRs in the full-wave power bridge. The relation between the input signal and the firing angle is designed to be the inverse of the non-linearity introduced by the power circuit. Therefore, the amplifier has an overall linear gain characteristic, it is bidirectional, has a high bandwidth, and exhibits no deadband. The power bridge balancing action is used to absorb the major portion of the negative power pulse caused by an inductive load and therefore improves the efficiency of the amplifier. The linear SCR control amplifier has been built and successfully tested with resistive-inductive loads as well as in a closed-loop positioning servo system. The testing results and the simplicity of instrumentation qualify this control amplifier for industrial applications."
"An adjustable bimetal temperature control for room air-conditioners is reviewed. Control engineering parameters, design considerations, and unique switching properties are outlined. Finally the performance of this narrow-differential high-energy system is analyzed in terms of temperature response and effective differential."
"IEEE Industry and General Applications Group Constitution and Bylaws. For the convenience of those members who wish to keep a copy of the complete Constitution and Bylaws, this section has been designed to be pulled out of the issue intact."
"This page or pages intentionally left blank."
"The design of automatic ice maker components for domestic refrigerators and freezers is discussed. Methods developed by the industry for performing the basic functions of an automatic ice maker component are covered, and these methods are related to the five automatic ice maker components available in today's domestic refrigerators and freezers."
"Since thyristor control produces nonsinusoidal periodic waveforms with high harmonic content, the electrical measurements associated with such controls require some adaptation of the existing techniques which have evolved mainly for the measurement of constant (dc) or sinusoidally varying (ac) electrical quantities. The basic principles and instruments discussed are relevant to voltage, current, real and reactive power, and power factor measurement in situations most likely to be encountered in applications of silicon-controlled rectifiers (thyristors)."
"A pair of thyristors connected inverse parallel, with symmetrical triggering, are found to give smooth, stepless control of the current and load voltage in a series resistance-capacitance circuit. Large current pulses of adjustable amplitude are produced that appear to be suitable for electric welding. The application to power factor compensation of inductive loads is limited in usefulness due to poor waveform and high dissipation in the resistance-capacitance branch."
"The origin and transformation of harmonics in rectifier circuits is traced in order to remove the confusion and traps that develop. Phase shift between the primary supply and secondary voltages does not in itself change the harmonic content of the primary supply current. However, each harmonic current is shifted by a different angle, and every other one is shifted in the reverse direction. As a result, the waveshape of the composite current is altered, but the rms value is not changed. By proper choice of the phase-shift angle between two or more rectifiers, selected harmonics can be displaced and cancelled in the total supply current. The rms value will be altered, but the resulting reduction is generally small and unimportant."
"The design approach, development, and application of a reliable and efficient silicon power diode ignition replacement assembly are presented. The module design provides for natural convection air cooling and a direct replacement capability in 300-kW ignitron power rectifier units not requiring phase control. The discussions include 1) a brief comparison of the economics favoring its use; 2) design philosophy and criteria, operation of silicon power diodes in parallel without paralleling reactors, protection from damaging high voltage and current transients or overloads, mechanical design and physical requirements for optimum cooling, electrical insulation, and package configuration; 3) dynamic operational test information from prototypes and production samples in the testing laboratory and from field installations; 4) history of a field installation (supervised by the author) with more than 4000 hours of satisfactory operation under rigorous load and environmental conditions."
"A significant factor to be considered in properly designed thyristor converter circuits is dv/dt. The intent of this paper is to analyze a three-phase bridge circuit and show the following. 1) dv/dt faults due to turn-on transients are a threat only for operation in the inverter mode. 2) dv/dt faults due to the thyristor recovery transient are a threat for rectifier operation from about 50 to 0 percent of maximum dc output voltage (a between 60 and 90 degrees) as well as in the inverter mode. 3) dv/dt due to recovery is generally less severe and more easily suppressed than that due to turn-on. 4) Turn-on induced dv/dt can be calculated approximately by the use of simple equivalent circuits. 5) Recovery induced dv/dt can also be calculated if peak reverse current is known. 6) Thyristor critical dv/dt rating at 50 to 60 percent of rated anode voltage may be more useful than present standard ratings."
"The use of the expression E = B X v has been shown by experiment to produce erroneous results when applied to the analysis of a system consisting of a hollow conducting cylinder coaxial with a helical rotor which carries windings producing a radial magnetic field. The expression predicts that no axial force can be produced on the cylinder. Tests with a helical-rotor electro-magnetic pump show this prediction to be false."
"This page or pages intentionally left blank."
"This index covers all technical items - papers, correspondence, reviews, etc. - that appeared in this periodical during the year, and items from previous years that were commented upon or corrected in this year. Departments and other items may also be covered if they have been judged to have archival value. The Author Index contains the primary entry for each item, listed under the first author's name. The primary entry includes the coauthors' names, the title of the paper or other item, and its location, specified by the publication abbreviation, year, month, and inclusive pagination. The Subject Index contains entries describing the item under all appropriate subject headings, plus the first author's name, the publication abbreviation, month, and year, and inclusive pages. Note that the item title is found only under the primary entry in the Author Index."
"This page or pages intentionally left blank."
"This page or pages intentionally left blank."
"This page or pages intentionally left blank."
"This page or pages intentionally left blank."
"Presents the cover from the proceedings of this conference."
"Presents the cover from the proceedings of this conference."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Presents the introductory welcome message from the conference proceedings. May include the conference officers' congratulations to all involved with the conference event and publication of the proceedings record."
"Provides a listing of current committee members."
"Presents the table of contents for the 1968 IEEE Electromagnetic Compatibility Symposium Record."
"A new technique named \"rthogonal detection\" which suppresses common-channel double sideband interference has been investigated in detail. It is applicable to various types of reception systems without materially affecting the desired signal for most interference situations. To illustrate the principles involved, a modification kit was developed to suppress double sideband interference into a high-frequency SSB communications receiver. It appeared that for certain idealized situations the double sideband interference could be suppressed almost completely. Practical considerations, however, limited the suppression of the unwanted signal to something in the order of 30 db. The amount of suppression was shown to be equal to both a constant and a variable improvement factor. The variable factor converts a negative decibel signal-to-interference ratio into a positive decibel signal-to-interference ratio improvement. Thus, for certain conditions, the weaker the desired signal the greater will be the suppression of the interference. The technique for certain situations is also capable of separating both pulse or CW common-channel waveforms which are simultaneously amplitude and phase modulated. In addition to offering major advantages over other approaches that eliminate common-channel interference, the technique is applicable to suppressing strong adjacent channel in interference."
"Operational requirements often make it necessary for several transmitters and receivers to operate in close proximity with small frequency separations. The important interference parameters that limit operation under these conditions are transmitter emission spectra, intermodulation, cross-modulation, and desensitization. This paper discusses the EMC problems produced by strong interfering signals in the neighborhood of the receiver tuned frequency. The region of concern, in a typical receiver, may consist of a considerable number of channels on both sides of the receiver-tuned frequency. This paper outlines methods that may be used to calculate the interference resulting from adjacent signals; presents mathematical models that describe the significant effects (such as intermodulation, cross-modulation, and desensitization); and describes methods for utilizing spectrum signature data for evaluating the models for a specific equipment. In addition, for cases where specific receiver measurements are not available, the paper presents general receiver models that have been derived from an analysis of spectrum signature data. The results of the work described in this paper will help to provide an understanding of the basic factors that contribute to the receiver susceptibility to interfering signals in adjacent channels. This information may be used by interference analysts in the calculation of receiver susceptibility and the generation of realistic EMC specifications, and by equipment designers to develop less susceptible equipments."
"This paper develops expressions for the spectral power density of a simple triode amplifier. The technique employed is straight-forward and employs a nonlinear triode model based on a piecewise linear approximation to the static characteristics of the device. The technique is not restricted to triodes and may, employing the proper device model, be used to solve other types of amplifiers. The solution is given as an iterative process of successive approximations."
"The relative effectiveness of Military Standards in the control of radar emissions is dependent upon the credibility of the Standard and the acceptance of the Standard by the design community. An investigation of this effectiveness has resulted in a study, of which a segment is reported in this paper. A novel approach to formulate radar performance measures, the utilization of a perfect processing concept and the relating of these two notions to radar emission constraints are the highlights of this paper."
"The amplitude of an emission spectrum which is generated by a noise modulated transmitter is properly calibrated in the power spectral density terms of power per bandwidth or watts/kHz. When a photograph is taken of the measured spectrum, it sometimes becomes difficult to determine the power spectral density at a particular point of the distributed spectrum. The relative scale is easily obtainable in dB but the absolute value is seldom if ever given correctly on measured data. The purpose of this paper is to develop a method for determining the largest absolute value of power spectral density for four most used transmission modes in communications; namely, single sideband, amplitude modulation, narrowband and wideband frequency modulation. A single equation is developed which expresses the maximum power spectral density as a function of average power, bandwidth and modulation factor. These three quantities are easily obtainable from manufacturers' information or measured data."
"Today's complex electronic systems require that the Design Engineers pay particular attention to the side effects of Electromagnetic Interference (EMI) upon system operation. To assist the Design Engineer in considering these additional parameters, the Electromagnetic compatibility (EMC) Engineer must furnish useful tools to enable such considerations to be in the basic design. Through the use of the time-shared computer, which is available through a teleprinter terminal, the complexity and drudgery of EMI Data reduction, prediction, and analysis can be significantly reduced when suitable programs are available. This paper presents two typical programs and describes the major operations and operator-computer interplay. The first program describes the solution to a filtering problem and incorporates Fourier analysis, specification limits, desired values of L, C, and circuit values for source and load impedances. In addition to determining the filter insertion loss as a function of frequency, the program translates these requirements into a 50 ohm system to expedite the purchase of ready-made filters. The second program presented may be used in the reduction of EMI data resulting from broadband conducted interference testing using a current probe. The operator may elect several options during the progress of the program and is requested to enter data readings. Upon completion, the computer prints out a complete data sheet and a graph of the values (data readings plus current probe factors) and specification limits versus frequency. Tilt levels (values greater than the specification limit) are included in the data table."
"A special-purpose radar model has been developed to provide interim capability in the evaluation of Army radar performance. This irterim model is designed to be used pending development of the radar scoring facility and will be replaced by the empirical prediction model developed from the radar scoring facility. The radar model has three basic sections: (1) cross section and signal simulation, (2) receiver function simulation, and (3) a threshold detection and evaluation section. This paper describes the model and the results of tests which have been performed with the model. The paper also discusses capabilities and limitations of the present form of the model, and proposed model improvements."
"The operation of a communication receiver subjected to interference is described in terms of dual performance thresholds. These thresholds, measurable under shop conditions, provide an empirical base for probability calculations which consider statistics of desired and interfering signal levels at the receiver input. The dual threshold approach is compared with a single threshold technique, typical curves are given, and a brief discussion of the application of the technique to large-scale interference analysis problems is presented."
"The Probability Scoring Model used for electromagnetic compatibility analysis considers the probability of correct information transfer, written as P(R+), to determine link quality. Experience has shown that the smallest value of articulation index (AI) which consistently provides correct information transfer in the presence of normal language configuration is 0.7 in a scale ranging from 0 to 1, and that the largest value of AI for a nonuseful link is 0.3. AI has been shown to be a function of the link description (receiver/transmitter type and frequency), the interferer description (type and frequency), and the strength of the desired and interfering signal, SRF and I, respectively; hence, for any given communications system of such configuration that the link and interferer descriptions and frequencies are known, AI can be established as a function of SRF and I. Determination of AI requires the use of the Voice Interference Analysis System (VIAS), test equipment which is costly and not readily available to all potential users of the Electromagnetic Environmental Test Facility (EMETF) Probability Scoring Model. However, receiver audio signal-to-noise ratio (S/N) can be shown to be a function of the same variables. A nonlinear regression analysis line has been established by relating empirical audio S/N values to AI for AM, FM, and SSB link and interferer modulation combinations. Typical military communications sets were used. As a result of this analysis, the criterion values of 0.3 and 0."
"Receiver and transmitter intermodulation (IM) phenomena are known to be common causes of electromagnetic interference. A technique that may be employed to avoid these interactions is the use of a list of frequencies which are inherently free of IM. This paper describes a method for producing such a list, or, evaluating a given list."
"The reasons why a nonlinear mathematical treatment of the shielding effectiveness of iron is required are discussed. A brief traveling wave solution is given to the EMP shielding problem when iron material is used. It is estimated that a one mil thick HIPERNOM sheet can provide shielding against a 104 volts/meter EMP of 13 microseconds duration. It is shown that iron shields more effectively than copper. The shielding efficiency of several commercial grades of iron is measured in the frequency range of 30 Hertz to 57 Kilohertz. Various physical factors influencing shielding effectiveness in this frequency range are discussed."
"This paper is based on radio noise measurements made near overhead power lines operating at voltages from 2.4 kV to 345 kV inclusive. Some of the measurements made are discussed and analyzed and used in a radio noise prediction technique for determining the location of communication and electronic sites with respect to high voltage overhead power lines. This paper is necessarily only a summary of the work which has been reported and detailed test results, calculations, appendices, and complete bibliography have been omitted."
"The amount of information on environmental noise levels in the UHF and VHF frequency bands is not adequate for establishing related satellite-to-ground TV system requirements. A program is under way to survey the radio-frequency noise in a typical city. This paper describes the survey program and the measurement equipment to be used."
"The study determined the feasibility of measuring electromagnetic radiations over the 0.1 to 15 GHz frequency range from a orbiting spacecraft. The primary objective was to define an experiment for an Apollo mission, although an unmanned space vehicle experiment is also considered. The study concludes that such an experiment is feasible and suggests an evolutionary series of experiments. Significant objectives of the first experiment are: (1) to measure RF as a function of earth location with -100 dbm receiver sensitivity, (2) enhance the over-all experiment with the astronaut by making decisions and performing real-time analysis of the experiment and of intentionally varied signals, (3) the experiment can be integrated into a mission depending on the spacecraft and other experiments, (4) extensive coverage of populated areas by orbit inclinations of 28 to 90 degrees, and (5) process and display of accumulated data by computers to the extent required by different users. The resulting data may find use in frequency allocation, equipment specifications, operational procedures, and interference maps that will be useful in site selection."
"This paper reviews the filter qualification requirements of MIL-F-15733 and the insertion loss test methods and test fixtures of MIL-STD-220A. The inherent measurement errors when testing filters under so called full-load conditions are illustrated. The measurement error is due to the DC isolation networks which give a reactive load instead of a 50-ohm resistive condition. Valid test results can be obtained under the optional no-load conditions of MIL-STD-220A. Revision of MIL-F-15733 is suggested to require insertion loss tests under no-load conditions and to add filter core saturation, capacitor characteristic tests, and limits. A practical approach to prediction and verification of filter effectiveness is suggested."
"Some of the calibration services offered to industry and other governmental agencies by the National Bureau of Standard's Radio Standards Laboratory are discussed. The emphasis is placed on field strength measurements and related calibration services at frequencies from 30 Hz to 12 GHz. These include the calibration of 3 basic types of antennas: (1) Loop antennas, (2) Half-wave dipole antennas and (3) Horn antennas. Methods of calibrating these antennas are described and illustrated. A discussion of calibration problems at microwave frequencies emphasizes the measurement errors as related to the antenna and receiver voltage standing wave ratios (VSWR). Antenna and receiver VSWR's are exemplified, and corresponding measurement errors are shown. Methods of estimating errors are given. The National Bureau of Standards recently designed and constructed some antenna standards for both the Air Force and the Navy. These standards were designed to calibrate loop and half-wave dipole antennas. The frequency range is 10 kHz to 1000 MHz. These antenna standards are briefly described and illustrated. The future plans for the development of antenna standards and broadband EMC standards at the National Bureau of Standards are discussed. Work is in progress in areas of impulse generators, random noise generators, and other instruments."
"It is the intent of this paper to present where we, Autonetics, in specific, and the industry in general are in the EMC calibration program. Since the inception of EMC specifications, a great deal of effort has been directed toward standardizing test requirements and methods to assure compatibility, while conversely the calibration and standardization of EMI measuring instrumentation has received very little attention. The existing, and especially the most recent tri-services EMC specifications, specify accuracy requirements approaching the state of the art. A detailed analysis has shown that this accuracy specification is quite difficult to meet. In recognition of these requirements, Autonetics, A Division of North American Rockwell Corporation, has initiated a three-phase program for the calibration of EMI instrumentation. A description of measurement techniques used to perform calibration of EMI instruments is presented. The problems associated with the calibration of the Field Intensity Meter (FIM), CW Signal Generators, and Impulse Generators are reviewed. Discussions are also presented on the mismatch errors that exist between the input devices and the FIM which contribute to the overall measurement accuracy. Solutions are given to improve the calibration accuracies of EMI measuring equipment which will result in a more meaningful EMI measurement. Recommendations are given to clarify the accuracy specifications imposed by the EMC standards and specifications which can result in more realistic accuracy requirements for EMI instrumentation."
"An EMC laboratory has frequent need for performing frequency analyses of single-shot transients, a task that usually entails recording the transient so that it can be repeatedly reproduced electrically for analysis. Convair has provided this capability over a wide range of conditions, either by using the Waveform Synthesizer to reproduce and analyze the transient; or by using the Compatiblity Analyzer to compute the spectrum and a Model 702 for providing a time-scaled transient to it. Input to Model 702 can either be automatic on-line or manual from a visual recording such as a photograph."
"This paper discusses a feasibility study covering the generation of high-intensity electromagnetic fields for radiated susceptibility or ordnance hazard tests. A new type of antenna using an elliptic-cylinder reflector is discussed. The results of laboratory measurements made with such an antenna are displayed graphically and discussed in the text of the paper. The advantages and limitations of this device are discussed. It is demonstrated that such an antenna is feasible, and plans for a proposed follow on effort are discussed."
"Steep wavefronts occur regularly or can be obtained very easily in many passive electrical circuits, i.e. circuits containing diodes, gaseous discharges, mechanical commutators, etc.... The selection of a particular frequency out of the correlated broad \"interference\" spectrum, by a single resonating circuit, and the radiation of this frequency by a connected antenna, is the basis of a passive short distance telemetering system, with a very broad application range."
"The surface transfer impedance of a coaxial cable is generally accepted as a useful measure of the screening properties of the cable. A convenient experimental method of determining surface transfer impedance is to surround a known length of the cable by a third coaxial conductor which is connected to the outer conductor of the cable through a shorting plate at one end, and through a voltage measuring instrument at the other end. The voltage measured by this instrument is then divided by the current flowing along the cable and by the length of cable under test to give the surface transfer impedance of the cable. This paper firstly gives a theoretical analysis of this experimental arrangement, showing that from a few cycles/second this technique does give the surface transfer impedance of the cable with a negligible error other than that in the measuring instruments. Secondly, a theoretical analysis for the comparison of the variations with frequency of the surface transfer impedances of copper sheathed cables and similar steel sheathed cables is given, and results obtained experimentally are shown. Finally, it is shown how this technique can be used to give the variation of the permeability of steels with both frequency and field strength, thus giving information that can be useful in calculations in electromagnetic shielding."
"The Viggen is a combat aircraft built by SAAB Aircraft Company in Sweden. The first production aircraft is scheduled for the middle of 1971. The third prototype aircraft, containing the complete electronic system made its first flight in April this year. The EMC program is based on sound design, measurements of subsystem characteristics and system tests in a mock-up. Much importance is paid to good aircraft installation. For instance susceptible and interfering wire bundles are separated. The blackbox design is continuously monitored by the maincontractor. Instead of prescribing limits for the subsystem measurements the test results have been collected and combined by the main contractor. In case of obvious interference special measures have been taken. The measurements also serve as support for the system tests. The system tests are made in a mock-up with the same electromagnetic configuration as the aircraft and include marginal measurements. Some measurements are also made in the prototype aircrafts. The subsystem measurements are completed and the system tests in the mock-up and in the third prototype aircraft are now going on. The results are promising so far."
"Techniques are presented for calculating the generation, transfer and reception of electromagnetic interference suitable for use in a computerized EMC analysis. The modeling is intended primarily to describe dominant effects of all important generator, receptor, and wiring types over the entire frequency range of 10 Hz to 10 GHz. lab verification data is given for a number of transfer models."
"The computer program developed during the course of this study considers the total spacecraft system and the environment created by that system. Its primary purpose is to ensure compatibility in orbit. However, the program is quite flexible and if modeling information is available, the computer program may be utilized to develop specifications for launch environment, pre-launch environment, and system check-out phases."
"This paper deals with various techniques in the form of modifications or additions which were developed to produce additional coupling reduction in existing systems. Although this has been the prime purpose, due consideration has been given to the effects of the different methods on the original objectives of the systems. Some of the techniques alter the radiation patterns and gains of the antennas involved. Consideration has been given to developing techniques which are operable over a broad band of frequencies in order not to restrict the operational requirements of the systems involved. Both analytical and experimental results are presented. Experiments were performed in convenient microwave frequency bands. However, by proper scaling with respect to frequency, it is possible to use the results given in this paper at other frequencies. One of the methods of coupling reduction described here is the compensating bridge. This bridge is formed with the addition of a cancellation link between two interfering systems. The bridge is balanced by adjusting the amplitude and phase of the power transmitted through the link to obtain high isolation. The distinct achievement here is the reduction of interference between two systems over a broad range of frequencies. This method is one of the most versatile since it can be readily extended to almost any frequency band. The use of corrugations in the form of circumferential trenches around the aperture of an antenna was found to offer a substantial reduction in coupling."
"The major results of this study may be summarized as follows. First, a simple model is adequate for the estimation of the susceptibility of integrated circuit systems. This model does not differ in any respect from the equivalent model that one would use to calculate the susceptibility of a vacuum tube circuit. Only the numerical values of the parameters differ. Second, it is apparent from the results that, at least at the present state of the art, the dimensions of the integrated circuits themselves are so small that they may be ignored in comparison with the connections in susceptibility calculations. Finally, since the susceptibility depends chiefly on the dimensions of the interconnections between circuits (at least when the power level is held constant), it can be stated that the more compactly packaged a system is the less susceptible it is likely to be. The fields to which the circuits are exposed can be greatly reduced by proper application of shielding. We have made some susceptibility estimates for a digital computer which included the shielding effect of the cabinet. We have not been able to verify this estimate because of the large field strength required over the test volume. We also feel that additional study of the effects of tuned circuits, electromechanical filters, and other components not considered in this work should be performed. A more detailed discussion of the complete study is contained in Ref. 1."
"A technique is discussed which simplifies the calculation of fields inside a closed circular cylinder resulting from an electromagnetic pulse. The pulse shape is a double exponential function, with unity amplitude. Three pulses are considered which have .2, 2, and 20 microsecond rise times, and decay times approximately 10 times longer than the rise times. The cylinder is assumed to be 7.5 meters long, 12 cm in diameter, and made of aluminum 1/4 cm thick. The dimensions of the cavity are sufficiently small so that internal resonances are not excited by the highest significant frequency of the shortest pulse."
"A waveform p(t) of finite time duration T has a frequency spectrum P(W) which is completely described either by ReP(wn) (wn = n /T) (n = 0 1, 2, . . .) or ImP(Wn) (n = 1, 2, . . .). The real part ReP(wn) is calculated in terms of the imaginary part ImP(wn) and conversely. These results are used as check calculations for frequency spectra."
"This paper presents a general engineering technique by which the shielding effectiveness of solid single-layer shields may be analytically evaluated. Shielding equations applicable to any homogeneous isotropic material are developed using the transmission-line approach of Schelkunoff. Corresponding limitations are discussed. Necessary information regarding near-field wave impedance is presented in normalized graphs. A useful computer program (FORTRAN IV) is given, together with application information. Calculated results are compared with corresponding test data."
"A study of nonlinear environmental sources of interference was conducted under controlled conditions aboard the aircraft carrier, the USS \"Bunker Hill\". Nonlinear sources were located, tested to determine their interference-contributions to nearby receiving antennas and then removed. Recommendations based on this work were incorporated by the Navy as structural modifications for existing ships and changes in new ship design. Conclusive evidence was obtained that a ship can be \"cleaned-up\" by locating and removing environmental nonlinearities."
"In this paper, the results of a study of site effects on the clear-site Fraunhofer zone statistical gain characteristics of several radar antennas are presented. The study was based on two types of site-effects tests. The first type of test was concerned with the illumination of objects in the immediate vicinity of the antenna under test to show that site effects may depend on the clear-site statistics of the receiving antennas under test, on the geometrical configuration of the objects, and on the position of the objects relative to the transmitting and receiving antennas. The second type of test was concerned with the illumination of objects in the distant surroundings of the antennas under test to determine how the frequency, beamwidth, and clear-site median gain of the antennas are related to site effects."
"A system has been developed to provide electromagnetic compatibility for military frequency usage throughout an extensive geographic area. This system employs a digital computer and an extensive data base of electromagnetic equipment parameters to perform real-time frequency usage analysis. Electromagnetic interference is identified and controlled by a subsystem that includes frequency-scanning surveillance receivers having their digital outputs linked to the computer and the system data base. Such functions as schedule planning, data acquisition, interference prediction, and documentation are performed by the system. Modular system design has allowed partial system operation while implementation is still in progress. This same modular property allows subsystem refinements to be implemented with a minimum of interfacing problems."
"Analytical techniques for determining the current induced in long conductors near the surface of the ground by surface fields have been developed by Sunde and Wait. These techniques have been verified for insulated and bare conductors in experiments conducted with a CW transmitter, and computer programs have been developed to calculate the currents using a version of Sunde's theory. Until recently, however, cable-current theory was limited to determining the total current induced in a cable. For many applications where shielded or multiply shielded cables are used, however, it is important to know what voltages and currents are induced in the signal-carrying core of the cable. The purpose of this note is to describe one technique that has been developed to compute these internal currents and voltages. The technique described in this paper combines the shielding theory of Kaden and the transmission-line theory of Sunde. Classical shielding theory is used to determine the axial electric-field strength at the inside surface of the shield from the current flowing in the shield. This axial electric field is then used in the equations for a transmission line with a distributed driving source to compute the current in the core and the core-to-shield voltage. (In the case of multiple shields, multiple applications of these two steps are required to progress from the outer shield through the inner shields to the core."
"In this study of induction coupling between cables, the mutual inductance and capacitance between the wires of two cable circuits are resolved into common mode and normal mode parameters. All other relelvant parameters, and also the variables, are resolved in a similar manner. The result is a matrix equation giving the combined effect of source upon receptor via all possible modes of coupling. A valid total equation could also be written without resolution into modes; however, the introduction of modes makes it easier to assess shielding effectiveness and to use existing amplifier mode conversion data."
"Convenient expressions are derived which permit accurate calculation of coupled interference between open (unshielded) wires which use a ground plane as a signal return. The expressions account for both electric and magnetic coupling and may be used for both ac and transient types of interference sources. Curves are included for obtaining key parameters in the calculations. Experimental data verifying the analysis is presented."
"This paper has presented the solution of the problem of a coaxial cable immersed in a transient electromagnetic field when the cable acts as a linear antenna. The general method of solution is applicable to other cable configurations if the sheath current distribution is known. Furthermore, the results and the approach are valid not only for transient fields but also for single frequency excitation, the case considered by Harrison and King."
"In EMC studies one often wishes to determine the effect of a pulsed RF signal on a receiver which is tuned off the signal center frequency. Measurements of pulsed spectra are made by means of spectrum analyzers and field intensity meters. However, there exists some confusion about the shape of the resultant pulse at the output of the IF amplifier of a receiver which is off-tuned from the pulsed signal. In order to properly interpret the effects of pulsed signals on receivers and to interpret the readings of spectrum analyzers and field intensity meters, it is necessary to determine the envelope of the waveform at the input to the detector. These waveforms can be calculated by convolving the input time waveform of the receiving device with the time domain transfer function of the receiver up to the detector. However, it is extremely difficult to obtain the mathematical form of the time domain transfer function of a receiver. However, use is made of the relationship that the LaPlace or Fourier transform of convolution is equal to the frequency domain multiplication of signal and transfer function. A computer program for obtaining the Fourier transform of most time waveforms including RF pulses has been written. The program integrates the time waveform by straight line segments between the sampled points on the time waveform. The frequency domain transfer function of cascaded tuned amplifiers is used to simulate the receiver."
"This index covers all technical items - papers, correspondence, reviews, etc. - that appeared in this periodical during the year, and items from previous years that were commented upon or corrected in this year. Departments and other items may also be covered if they have been judged to have archival value. The Author Index contains the primary entry for each item, listed under the first author's name. The primary entry includes the coauthors' names, the title of the paper or other item, and its location, specified by the publication abbreviation, year, month, and inclusive pagination. The Subject Index contains entries describing the item under all appropriate subject headings, plus the first author's name, the publication abbreviation, month, and year, and inclusive pages. Note that the item title is found only under the primary entry in the Author Index."
"This index covers all technical items - papers, correspondence, reviews, etc. - that appeared in this periodical during the year, and items from previous years that were commented upon or corrected in this year. Departments and other items may also be covered if they have been judged to have archival value. The Author Index contains the primary entry for each item, listed under the first author's name. The primary entry includes the coauthors' names, the title of the paper or other item, and its location, specified by the publication abbreviation, year, month, and inclusive pagination. The Subject Index contains entries describing the item under all appropriate subject headings, plus the first author's name, the publication abbreviation, month, and year, and inclusive pages. Note that the item title is found only under the primary entry in the Author Index."
"The conference organizers greatly appreciate the support of the various corporate sponsors listed."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Incandescent lamps are used as wide-band sources of light in many optical/electronic instruments, and the present paper describes some approaches to the design of stabilized power units for these lamps. Both dc and pulse-width modulated ac supplies are described, and a series of design equations for the latter are established. Where the lamp voltage is to be monitored rather than the light output itself, some unique advantages are claimed for the use of a lamp-photoresistor assembly (or calistor) within the feedback loop. Several example designs are given, from which a variety of power supplies may be developed."
"An ultrafast circuit for photodiodes makes it possible to realize the highest fidelity and fastest time domain response capabilities (on the order of 100 ps rise-time response) for measuring fast light pulses. The circuit utilizes triaxial cable as a simple improved means of overcoming the inherent response limitations posed by customary photodiode circuits and components. The triaxial cable circuit can be utilized for both solid-state and vacuum photodiodes, and can be readily adapted to various light-pulse measurement schemes. This paper includes a description of the basic triaxial cable circuit, a calculation of its response capability with a typical photodiode, and an adaptation to a scheme for measuring interpulse intervals of several sequential light-pulse sources."
"An automatic data acquisition system was designed and fabricated from both commercially available and proprietary special-purpose equipment to obtain the large quantities of accurate voltage versus current data needed to define and study the voltage-current characteristics of semiconductor devices exposed to neutron bombardment. The operation of the system in tracing out the entire current-voltage characteristic, per preprogrammed instructions, requires only a start command from the operator. The system is capable of measuring currents in the range of 10-10 to 2×10-1 amperes with an absolute accuracy of ±1 percent of reading and a precision (repeatability) of ±0.3 percent of reading, with a maximum voltage drop across the current sampling element of only 5 mV. This low value of voltage drop across the sampling element is made possible by the use of an autoranging technique, which selects discrete values of resistance for sampling the current being measured. The system is capable of programming input voltages from 0 to 50 V in 0.1-mV increments, or input currents from 0 to 2 amperes in increments of 0.01 to 10 μA, depending on current range. The currents are sampled by the current sampler, whose output voltage is amplified by low-noise amplifiers, and measured by a Dymec 2401C-M31 digital voltmeter. The voltmeter readings, along with resistor identification information in digital form from the current sampler, are serialized by a Dymec 2540B coupler and recorded on a Friden Model SFD Flexowriter in both typewritten form and on punched paper tape."
"The most level stable test pads now available utilize a platform which is slaved to leveling accelerometers. If, in addition to accelerometers, gyros are used, the resulting active pad will have performance substantially better than the corresponding semiactive pad. In order to bring out the important characteristics of active pads, they are compared in detail to passive and semiactive pads. This is done by first considering the functional characteristics of the fore-going pad systems. Comparison of the systems is then made in terms of numerical examples. Finally, control loops for active test pads are considered in detail. Considerable attention is given to the problem of platform motion produced by high-frequency gyro noise. As well as treating the problem of gyro noise analytically, it is considered in terms of several numerical examples. These examples pertain to active pads both with and without the incorporation of gyro bypasses. It is shown that gyro bypasses, mechanized using tachometer generators, can significantly improve pad performance with respect to gyro noise."
"A current comparator using ferromagnetic cores with a rectangular hysteresis loop is described. Design criteria for this comparator are derived from the B-H characteristics of the core. To verify the performance of the current comparator, basic experiments and experimental A-D converters with these comparators have been made. By application of the current comparator, it would be possible to realize an A-D converter that could convert a current between a few milliamperes and a few amperes into 9- to 10-bit binary forms within an order of microseconds. The merits of an A-D converter of this type are 1) its very low input impedance, 2) its high impedance between the balanced input terminal pair and the ground, and 3) its ease of conversion of the sum/difference of two currents. Because of these features, the A-D converters can measure currents in circuits having high potential to ground without giving disturbance. The input impedance, measured at 500 kHz, of the experimental A-D converter is shown as a series connection of 0.3-ohm resistance and 0.24-μH inductance, with a stray capacitance of 7.5 pF between input terminals and ground."
"A special application of the potentiometer method (Poggendorff method) for measuring low resistances is described. In this application, the voltage for the potentiometer (assistant current) is taken from the same measuring current passing the unknown resistance RX. Therefore, the influence of a variation of the current up to 25 percent during the measurement of the voltage drop across RX is eliminated."
"When image plane construction is impossible, accuracy of field strength measurements is greatly reduced by the presence of connecting cables and apparatus. This problem may be circumvented by telemetering the field information to a distant control station. This paper describes a system designed to measure relative electric field strengths at 26 MHz. The sensing probe employs a voltage comparison technique, and a telemeter whose output drops to a sharp null when a specific electric field is present at the probe. If calibration is desired, the specific field may be measured, or deduced through probe circuit analysis. The system gives better than 0.1 dB accuracy if care is taken in positioning the probe. If a large scattering field obstacle is at least 10 meters from the probe, errors in relative field measurements will be less than 1 percent due to the presence of the probe. Various suggestions are given to decrease the effects of some sources of inaccuracy. The probe system may be applied in almost any medium, providing that temperature excursions are not too drastic."
"The design of a system for the synthesis of one frequency from another is discussed in terms of mathematical methods of approximating real numbers, the ratio of the frequencies being the number approximated. A general equation describing the frequency synthesis process is derived and it is shown, using charts, how block diagrams for a frequency synthesizer can be developed from the solutions of this equation. Examples are given for a synthesizer which compares the frequency of an ammonia N15H3 maser with a standard frequency of 5 MHz, and for a synthesizer which offsets a standard frequency of 100 kHz by steps of 1×10-5 Hz."
"The operation and performance of a new type of circuit for square-wave generation is presented. The circuit is based on the application of two identical regenerative switches using complementary transistors, the operation of which is controlled by a single timing capacitor. Rise and fall times of the output pulses can be made to depend almost entirely on the switching speed of the transistors, and are independent of the values of the elements used in the timing network. The frequency of oscillation can be varied continuously or in steps over a wide range of frequencies by changing one parameter only. With silicon planar transistors used in the regenerative switches, the temperature stability is quite satisfactory, but a simple method for further increase in temperature stability is also discussed. The capacitive (or resistive) loading of the output terminals does not affect the frequency of oscillation. These features make the circuit described very useful in many applications, and particularly in the design of wide-range square-wave generators. An experimental model of the circuit covering the frequency range from 1 Hz to 10 MHz has been built and some results of measurements are presented."
"This paper describes an experiment and presents data on the reflectance variation of a painted surface during the period when a solid propellant rocket is being fired on the surface. The measurement was made with a helium-neon laser, and the data can be used for heat-transfer calculations."
"The influence of contamination level on the aging behavior of quartz crystal resonators has been studied. Resonators were made using high-temperature bonding techniques and were baked prior to sealing in both dry hydrogen and under high vacuum in order to minimize the level of contamination within the enclosure. The initial stabilization period for the frequency drift rate to reach 3 parts per 1010/month and the period to restabilize after power interruption to oven and oscillator is usually less than a week for these units. The time periods to reach the same drift rate for units made using the current state-of-the-art fabrication tecnhiques range from one to six months. The difference in aging behavior is discussed in terms of a possible aging mechanism."
"This paper describes a linear frequency sweep oscillator which is accurately controlled by a master clock. The voltage controlled oscillator which generates the frequency sweep is first phase-locked to the master clock. Then, a ramp generator drives the voltage controlled oscillator over the required frequency range, while a phase-sampling loop controls the instantaneous frequency to the desired ramp accuracy. The phase-sampling control loop is synchronized to the master oscillator by the sampling rate, which is derived directly from the master clock frequency. A laboratory system constructed on these principles sweeps from 2.095 MHz to 2.320 MHz in approximately 1.709 seconds, with a deviation from linearity of less than ±75 Hz."
"Determination of position by triangular, rather than Cartesian, coordinates is outlined and formulated. The use of tensioned flexible wires to determine position is discussed from the theoretical and practical viewpoint. Details are given of an experimental Resiwire method, which achieved a precision of 1:18 000 and an accuracy of 1:4000 when determining position within an area 90 by 50 feet. Design equations and tables support the design of this potentiometric distance transducing method."
"It is shown that an unsymmetrical constant input resistance T attenuator may be considered as a compensated (constant resistance) Ayrton shunt. Designs are given for a decimal and a dB attenuator."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Prospective authors are requested to submit new, unpublished manuscripts for inclusion in the upcoming event described in this call for papers."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Pyroelectric detectors have been fabricated from polycrystalline samples of barium titanate. These detectors were mounted in a model for tests in a hypersonic wind tunnel and calibrated. The method of calibration is discussed and tables of calibration data are included. Thermocouples were mounted in the model to evaluate the detectors. The detectors were tested and results of the tests are discussed. Advantages of pyroelectric detectors are presented and typical output traces from both the pyroelectric detectors and the thermocouples are shown."
"An improved time base for sampling scopes is described with a total trigger signal delay of 20 ns. The maximum trigger frequency is 5 GHz and the jitter of the whole system does not exceed 20 ps. The system fits with a commercially available 12 GHz sampling scope. With real-time sampling it is possible to extend the time scale range to 50 ms/cm."
"This paper describes newly developed electrical power test equipment called a 7.5-kVA power transient synthesizer. The synthesizer furnishes 7.5-kVA three-phase 120/208-volt power and 5.8-kVA single-phase 120-volt 50/60-Hz power containing a variety of controlled power parameter fluctuations. The output includes continuous undervoltage and overvoltage, momentary under-voltage and overvoltage lasting for 8.3 ms to 5 seconds, power outages lasting for identical durations, sine waves with superimposed pulse voltages, square-wave and frequency changing sinusoidal voltages. The transient susceptibility test made on a dc power supply is presented to illustrate the data obtainable with the synthesizer."
"This paper presents a discussion of a new approach to the problem of measuring small forces in the presence of a large tare load with emphasis on the analysis and design of the force balance servo system. The object under study is suspended by an air bearing, and the applied forces, in the plane perpendicular to the direction of the tare load, are nulled by a two-dimensional servo system with force readout supplied by measuring the required servo motor currents. Each servo loop consists of a position sensor, a compensating network, a power amplifier, and a servo motor. The criteria governing selection of these components are discussed, and detailed design information is presented. The system was found to have excellent repeatability, linearity better than 1 percent, and cross coupling between dimensions less than 1 percent."
"This paper is concerned with the problem of detecting a weak sine wave and measuring its parameters in the presence of arbitrary gain fluctuations and additive Gaussian noise. The parameters considered are frequency, phase, and signal-to-noise power ratio. Some practical methods are presented for detecting the weak sine wave and measuring its parameters. The methods are simple to implement, insensitive to gain fluctuations, and relatively accurate. The implementations have, inherently, a wide dynamic range."
"This paper considers the problem of digital frequency measurement of band-limited sampled data signals. The signal is assumed to be a fixed sine wave in noise over the measurement interval. The advent of low-cost A/D converters and the drastic price reductions predicted for IC's in the near future make techniques of this type appear practical for special-purpose digital hardware as well as a general-purpose computer. The probability density function is determined for frequency measurements based on the nth root of the ratio of the derivative of the signal to the signal itself, or its quadrature component. The results are compared with the instantaneous rate of change of phase technique. In addition, attention is paid to techniques for computing the derivatives of a signal. It is shown that a Lagrange formulation yields an excellent approximation to the first and second derivatives as long as the signal is sampled at no less than twice the Nyquist rate. Finally, it is shown that for a given error, sampling at approximately twice the Nyquist rate minimizes the number of arithmetic operations required per unit time and bandwidth."
"This paper describes a new wideband RF voltmeter-comparator for the frequency range dc to 1 GHz and the voltage range 1 to 15 volts. The device employs matched hot-carrier diodes in a dual-channel 50-ohm feedthrough coaxial configuration. Power extraction from the signal under test is negligible, and the coaxialline sections are impedance compensated so that the maximum VSWR is 1.02. Applications include 1) measurement of RF voltage with a 3-percent uncertainty limit, 2) measurement of differential RF voltage, 3) high-resolution RF voltage comparator-monitor, and 4) leveler-detector with flat response for swept or fixed frequency operation."
"Accompanying the improvement of electrical insulating materials, reflected in higher and higher resistivities, is the need for greater confidence in bridge performance with respect to precision and accuracy. To establish such assurance, standards extending to the upper limit of the bridge are required. This paper describes the design and calibration of three-terminal wye (Y) network standards in the teraohm (1012 ohms), and multiteraohm (1014 ohms) ranges which qualify for this purpose. The Y configuration consists of a geometric arrangement of three resistive components in which one end of each component is connected to a common terminal, while the other ends of the branches constitute the independent terminals of the network. A particular feature is that no solid insulation is used within the assembly to provide mechanical and electrical isolation of the resistance elements. The burden of providing this isolation rests with the insulation of the terminal block of the bridge to which the standard is secured. A further desirable feature is that the resistance elements, none of which exceeds 109 ohms, can be calibrated individually without removing, exposing or in any way handling, or disturbing the Y structure. These standards, developed at the Bell Telephone Laboratories and manufactured and calibrated by the Leeds and Northrup Co., have been calibrated also by the National Bureau of Standards. Both organizations report results with a precision of at least one part in one thousand and with an uncertainty not exceeding three parts in one thousand for the 1012-ohm standard."
"A brief derivation of the transition probability for a two-state atomic system subjected to a phase modulated oscillatory perturbation is presented. This result is used to perform an analysis of a typical cesium beam atomic clock system utilizing a Ramsey (twin cavity) beam tube in order to determine optimum design parameters. It is shown theoretically and experimentally that the optimum modulation frequency for this type of system is higher than has previously been supposed. An additional feedback loop can be incorporated to nearly eliminate cavity phase error."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Prospective authors are requested to submit new, unpublished manuscripts for inclusion in the upcoming event described in this call for papers."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Permittivity is measured by impedance measurement on thin cylindrical samples placed in an ordinary rectangular waveguide and in a cavity formed by an ordinary coaxial transmission line. The first method does not depend on resonance and is characterized by a rather high accuracy. The second, more conventional method, is used in conjunction with the first for study of dc bias dependence of the permittivity."
"A portable digital instrument is described that provides a decimal readout of 1) the time integral of the square of a fluctuating voltage and of the measuring time on two decimal displays, and 2) the amplitude distribution of the voltage. The instrument has no low-frequency limitations. For periodic inputs, measurement may take place over one cycle. For either periodic or random inputs, measurement may be made to commence on a start signal and run for a programmed time. Readout is available immediately at the end of the measuring time, so that the instrument can be used in on-line real-time process control. The voltage under measurement is sampled systematically, and the sampled data are processed using a unique special-purpose digital computer. The paper describes the principles on which measurements are based, and the design and error characteristics of an instrument in which, for most waveforms (e. g., sine, ramp, white noise), the maximum error is in the region of 1 percent and the upper frequency limit is about 1 kHz."
"This paper discusses the design and operation of a digital voltmeter employing a new technique in the analog-to-time converter. The circuit is based on dual-slope integration, which eliminates the necessity of a highly stable clock. Any long term drift in the clock is canceled, so that a simple two-transistor multivibrator clock is used. With the aid of a special diode circuit, the ramp-generating integrator also serves as an accurate comparator, so that no separate comparator is needed for analog-to-digital conversion. Finally, the new circuit requires only a single up counter, and no special polarity switching circuits for automatic polarity indication are needed. The new voltmeter, developed for the University of Arizona's new Locust Computer, has full-scale ranges of ±1 volt and ±10 volts. Tests on the instruments have shown its accuracy to be ±0.02 percent of half-scale. The sampling rate can be varied from 80 ms to 1 second, and the input impedance is 2 MU on the 10-volt range."
"The design and principle of operation of a transistorized dielectric spectrograph operating at a frequency of 1650 ±1 MHz are presented. The apparatus has high sensitivity and can measure the dielectric constant to a relative uncertainty of 1×10-7 and the loss tangent to about 2×10-7. It can be used up to pressure ranges of 100 atm or better. The apparatus is particularly useful for the quick measurement of very small dipole moments (less than 1 Debye) to an accuracy better than 1 percent. The results for mixtures of helium with 1) carbonylsulfide, a linear molecule, 2) carbontetrafluoride, a spherical top, and for 3) pure nitric oxide, a diatomic molecule, are briefly presented."
"The design and construction of a multiratio, 36 000-ampex e compensated current comparator and the technique by which it may be cascaded with a second multiratio comparator to calibrate, with a single balance, power frequency current transformers at ratios up to 7200/1 are described. The first comparator has a distributed, single-turn primary winding and a sectionalized 1200-turn secondary winding that may be series-paralleled to obtain eight ratios from 120/1 to 1200/1. A 300-kVA 1100-volt transformer is included in the single primary turn to provide the power required for the calibrations. In size the device is 40 inches in diameter and 20 inches in height, and its weight is 2700 lb. The two comparators are cascaded at nominal currents up to 30 amperes by connecting the secondary winding of the first comparator to the primary winding of the second and by making corresponding interconnections between the two compensation windings. At balance, the actual current ratio of the standard composed of the two comparators in cascade, or the first comparator alone, differs from the corresponding turns ratio by no more than a part per million (ppm)."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Prospective authors are requested to submit new, unpublished manuscripts for inclusion in the upcoming event described in this call for papers."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"A cross capacitor is a calculable one whose capacitance is ideally determinable from one length measurement of its electrodes. In the Electrotechnical Laboratory of Japan (ETL), a horizontal cross capacitor was constructed. In this model, ease of checking alignment of the horizontal electrode bars, and a simple driving mechanism to move the guard electrode, were emphasized. Because the movable guard electrode rests on, and is guided by, the horizontal electrode bars no special supporting mechanism is necessary. The displacement, which defines the length of the capacitor, is observed by interference fringes using a Hg198 source. The sensitivity obtained for electrical measurement is better than 0.01 aF and for length measurement better than 1/30 fringe. The errors of this capacitor are examined in detail and confirmed by experimental tests. The absolute capacitance was determined as 0.1 pF with an accuracy better than 1 ppm."
"A two-varactor, double-sideband up-converter pumped at 30 MHz has been constructed. Operated at room temperature with a signal frequency of 104 rad/s, the device has an optimum source resistance of 105 ohms and a minimum noise figure of 0.01 dB. Immersed in liquid N2, minimum noise figures below 0.001 dB referred to a room temperature source have been measured. The device is particularly useful as a null detector for audio frequency capacitance bridges. At 104 rad/s, a signal current of 10-14 amperes through a capacitance of 1000 pF can be detected in less than one second with this instrument. Techniques for suppressing microphonics and other extraneous sources of noise are described."
"An experimental evaluation of five-terminal 10-kilohm hermetically sealed standard resistors as interlaboratory (transport) standards indicates that the typical drift is +0.4 ppm per year; the effects of mechanical shock to 100 G and of vibration up to 10 G at 80 Hz, less than 0.1 ppm; the effect of hot shock to 65° C, less than 0.1 ppm after five days recovery; the effect of cold shock to -20° C, less than 0.1 ppm; the effect of temperature, applying corrections, 0.06 ppm over the range 18 to 280°C, and ignoring corrections, 0.92 ppm over the range 20 to 260°C. Greater precision of comparison can be achieved at the 10-kilohm than at the 1-ohm level. Incidental to the test, agreement among the values of the ohm as derived from the computable capacitor at NSL, Australia, and from the national standards at NBS (USA) and NRC (Canada) were found to be within 0.3 ppm of the expected values from data published by the International Bureau of Weights and Measures."
"The time division multiplier-type wattmeter is based on a new principle of operation. An operational amplifier operates as an integrator of the sum of Ez (one of the two inputs) and either +E8, or -E8, E8 being an internal standardized voltage. A pulse-width modulation in the form of switch reversals is obtained which differs from balance condition by an amount proportional to Ex. Instantaneous multiplication provides a wattmeter with dc accuracy of ± 0.1 percent up to at least 10 kHz. The output voltage is ± 1 volt for a ± 1-volt input from Ex and Ey. To obtain the required flat frequency characteristics, a coupling transformer and an adjustable resistor are provided. A time constant of 6.8 X 10-9 seconds has been achieved. The voltage signal is readily provided by a precision ratiotran. Errors of ± 0.0001 percent in magnitude and 50 microradians in phase angle are reasonable."
"A new design of a generating voltmeter with a rotating measuring electrode system is described. It is based on an arrangement of eccentric circular cylinder electrodes. Hence an essential advantage of the voltmeter is a calculable voltage-current ratio provided the rotation frequency is known. Moreover the electrode arrangement is self-shielding. For these reasons, in principle, no calibration is necessary. The properties of the voltmeter are discussed theoretically. Two practical laboratory devices are presented. Prospects for future development are discussed."
"A new method of measuring the load coefficients of precision direct current standard resistors is described which has many advantages over the presently used direct current methods. Alternating current is used to provide almost all of the load required in the resistor under test while a small direct current is used in the measurement of direct current resistance changes. Problems of measuring circuit design are discussed relating to the simultaneous presence of alternating and direct currents and because of the alternating loading current supply circuit connected to the standard resistor under test. Possible sources of measurement error are considered and comparative curves of resistance change as a function of temperature and load are presented for several direct current resistance standards of differing resistance value and construction."
"The design and construction of a self-balancing direct current comparator for use in a seven-decade potentiometer is described. The comparator generates an output current whose value, as a proportion of a constant input current, is determined to a very high accuracy by the ratio of the numbers of turns of two windings on a magnetic core. A linear, adjustable voltage scale is obtained by passing this output current through a resistor whose value does not vary with current. Since the voltage adjustment is made by varying turns on a magnetic core and not by means of a resistive divider, the usual problems of contact resistance and thermal electromotive forces associated with this adjustment in conventional potentiometers are avoided. The main sources of error in the comparator and the design techniques used to keep the errors less than the smallest step of the output current are discussed. A self-checking feature whereby the linearity of each step of the output current can be checked quickly and easily is described. The performance of the prototype model is given. The normal range of the potentiometer is from zero to 2 volts in steps of 0.1μV."
"The causes of error in inductive voltage dividers are examined in detail, and equations are developed from which the voltage ratios may be predicted with an uncertainty not exceeding 1 part in 108. Experimental methods for measurement of the voltage ratios to an accuracy of 2 parts in 109 of the input voltage vector are fully described, together with techniques by which the constituent parts of the overall error may be isolated. An improved method of winding decade inductive dividers is also described and specifications are given for multidecade devices in which the errors predictably will not exceed 1 part in 108 at 400 Hz or 5 parts in 108 over the whole frequency range 40 to 1592 Hz."
"A voltage divider with ratios of 2n to I or 6n dB is obtained by cascading n binary dividers, each having a voltage ratio of 2 to 1. A theoretical analysis results in an expression for the ratio error. Several techniques are given for reducing this error. A voltage comparator is described for eliminating errors due to external loading of the divider. An experimental cascaded binary divider with a total of 42 dB in seven 6-dB steps is described. The attenuation of the divider was measured with a precision waveguide-below-cutoff attenuator at 1 MHz. The divider and attenuator values agree within the uncertainty of the attenuator and measuring system at 1 MHz."
"A short-circuited-ring electrodynamic ammeter is described. The short-circuited ring is supported by a fine quartz fiber and is suspended midway between the inner and outer conductors of a coaxial transmission line. The current on the line is found by measuring the torque exerted against the ring by the current on the coaxial line. A new technique is given for determining the relationship between the torque on the ring and the current on the transmission line, and is compared with the technique used in the past. The new method is an application of the resonator action theorem used by Cullen for calibrating a torque-operated microwave wattmeter. The major weakness in the previous evaluations of the torque-current relation is discussed. The ammeter is useful for measuring current from 1 to 100 amperes over the frequency range 1 MHz to 1 GHz, with an uncertainty of the order of 0.5 percent."
"New tests by the author to determine the, dielectric properties of high-loss nonmagnetic microwave materials used for waveguide absorbers and anechoic chamber linings reveal two significant results: dielectric parameters may be calculated from simple formulas without solving transcendental equations, and accuracy is limited only by the homogeneity of the sample and the precision of its fit in the waveguide. The technique used is based upon prior work by other researchers but is refined for materials with loss tangents exceeding 0.1. These previously have received little attention in the literature. Results of tests in the S-band yield loss tangents between 0.4 and 0.8, and dielectric constants from 1.5 to 2.0 for samples completely filling the cross section of WR284 waveguide. The author reviews other methods, analyzes error sources, and describes his laboratory work."
"A description is given of the application of automation to a classical measurement problem-determining the capacitance parameters of multiconductor communication cables. These parameters are important in the manufacture of cables and determine such factors as transmission efficiency, crosstalk, and noise. Although the desirability of automating these measurements has long been recognized, the problem of controlling stray capacitance in the switching equipment and connecting leads has previously prevented such automation. This problem has now been overcome by the use of a three-terminal guarded automatic bridge to measure the individual direct capacitances between conductors and a digital computer to calculate the desired parameters from these measurements. The benefits that have been realized by the inclusion of the computer in the measurement system are emphasized-increased speed, elimination of errors, flexibility of operation, data reduction and presentation, and self-testing."
"The impedance of inductors, particularly those having fenite cores, is known to vary with frequency, temperature, ac signal level, dc bias, magnetic history (i.e., magnetization and demagnetization), and time. Obtaining the necessary statistical characterization data for these variations would be impractical with a manual measurement system. To meet this need a computer-operated, high-resolution impedance stability measurement system to characterize two-terminal passive elements was developed. The measurement system described consists of a general-purpose digital computer and three independent test stations operating in a time-shared mode. It is capable of unattended measurements to provide characterization of up to 24 samples per station with some measurements lasting as long as two weeks. Its accuracy and resolution are indicated by its capability of measuring temperature coefficients of 10 ppm/°F to within 1 ppm/°F. Topics presented are: system description; operator-system interaction; use of the computer for control, calculation, and data reduction; measurement technique and accuracy; and representative measurements."
"The Hewlett-Packard computer-controlled network analyzer performs fully automatic rapid characterizations of passive and active networks through their scattering parameters. It is extremely flexible in both measurement capability and presentation results, and provides standards laboratory accuracy. System operation is discussed, and in particular, the sources of error involved in making such measurements are dealt with: imperfect standards used for calibration, instrumentation, and signal source accuracy and repeatability errors. Total system accuracies and some measurement results are given."
"Several techniques for calibration of an electrooptical (Kerr cell) high-voltage pulse measuring system are described. Independent calibrations, without reference to pulse divider measurements, are achieved by application of a direct bias voltage to the Kerr cell. After calibration, experiments with voltages as high as 100 kV demonstrate reasonable agreement (to within 1 percent) between simultaneous Kerr cell and calibrated pulse divider measurements."
"A quantitative definition of pulse-train jitter is developed. The definition surmounts the two main shortcomings of the existing definitions, viz., 1) it permits an absolute evaluation of jitter and 2) it is independent of the jitter character. The development consists of showing mathematically that information on each type of jitter-jitter in pulse repetition rate, width, and height-is stored in a linear fashion in the AM sidebands of one or more harmonics of the mean pulse train and that pulse-train jitter may consequently be defined as the ratio of the AM power associated with a convenient harmonic to the power in that harmonic. The definition is valid for pulse trains of low duty factor (e. g., < 0.01) having relatively small amounts of jitter, conditions very frequently encountered in practice. An additional advantage of this definition is that it permits an evaluation of pulse-train jitter by relatively simple instrumentation. A brief description of such instrumentation, as well as a simple example of jitter measurements, is given."
"Determination of the response of a time domain instrument to a voltage step is preferable to determination in terms of its response to sine waves. Unfortunately the output waveshape of a voltage or current step generator cannot be evaluated as easily as that of a sine wave source. Consequently, investigators rely (or should rely) upon waveform predictability rather than waveform measurement when employing step generators in system characterization. One form of a predictable step generator is discussed that is useful in the subnanosecond to tens of nanoseconds time region after the step edge. A practical realization of this form is given that has predictability to within 1 percent in that time region from 350 picoseconds to 6 nanoseconds after an 80-picosecond rise-time step edge."
"Semiconductors that show current instabilities usually have an associated negative conductivity for a certain range of electric field. Information about this region may be obtained from direct two-terminal measurements on the material. A direct method of measurement is described in which a voltage pulse, in the form of a fast-rising ramp, is applied to the sample and the current waveform is simultaneously observed. Also described are techniques for generating suitable driving waveforms, and for measuring and separating the conduction and displacement current components. The method has been used for measuring the characteristics of materials with values of negative dielectric relaxation time in the -50-picosecond region."
"A numerical procedure (called deconvolution, inverse convolution) is presented for the removal of measurement distortions introduced by intervening systems whose input and output are connected by convolution. The system impulse response is assumed known. Rather than modify this impulse response to avoid calculating unreasonable inputs as is commonly done, the technique developed makes corrections to the given (usually noisy) measured output arrays. The correction is determined by requiring the calculated input to have minimal energy. The mathematical manipulations can be carried out entirely in the time domain, the greatest computational difficulty being matrix inversion. The features of the procedure are conceptual simplicity and the need for only rudimentary subjective judgments from the investigator."
"The results of experimental investigation of frequency stability of a He-Xe laser (λ = 3.508μ) with nonresonant feedback are reported. It is experimentally proved that the mean frequency of oscillations does not depend on the distance between the mirror and the scatterer. It is shown that the spectral width depends on the number N of modes interacting due to scattering. The greater N is, the narrower is the linewidth. In a He-Xe laser with a relatively low number of interacting modes (N = 10) the linewidth is about 15 mHz. The lasers with a large number of interacting modes (N~104 to 106) are considered. The linewidth in such lasers is expected to be 104 to 105Hz. The short-term stability of the laser with nonresonant feedback is determined by the linewidth, but the long-term stability should be much better; it is determined only by the stability of the atomic resonance center."
"Theoretical and experimental studies on a primary standard of wavelength and frequency in the infrared are reported. The 3.39-μm He-Ne laser is tuned to the center of the absorption line of methane which is assigned to the F1(2) component of the P(7) branch of the v3 band. The absence of Stark and Zeeman effects under the highest fields tested, the strong absorption at 63.2°K as well as at 78°K, and the separation from other lines are excellent features for a high degree of absolute stability and reproducibility. A method of automatic frequency control of the He-Ne laser at the line-center of methane is described."
"It is possible to use the atomic beam tube as an optical frequency standard. Thallium has an advantage over cesium with respect to obtaining narrow spectral lines. The two-cavity method, as applied to the optical region, is analyzed. The construction of the cavity system for the observation of molecular ringing in the optical region is proposed and discussed."
"An atomic hydrogen maser utilizes the hyperfine transition between states with F=1, mF= O and F= 0, mF= O, respectively. Conventionally, atoms in the F=1, mF=1 state, which do not take part in the clock transition, also are focused by a hexapolar magnet on the aperture of a storage bulb. A selector for eliminating the F = 1, mF= 1 atoms from the atomic beam utilizes a first hexapolar magnet, adiabatic rapid passage transition for converting the mF=1 state to the mF = -1 state, and a second hexapolar magnet; thus, only atoms in the F = 1, mF= 0 state penetrate into the cavity. Calculation by the phase-plane method, applicable to other multiple-focalization systems, is shown to be advantageous in achieving improved focalization efficiency."
"A description is given of a microwave oscillator of monotron type using a superconducting cavity. A brief survey of theoretical properties shows that this type of oscillator can have good short-term frequency stability (10-14 for r=1 ms) and spectral purity (2δf/f=10-17). After a brief description of the oscillator, experimental results on threshold current are given for starting oscillation and frequency stability; it is shown that it is possible to realize an S-band oscillator with a frequency stability better than 10-10 and capable of delivering continuous power of the order of 100 mW."
"A technique for measuring the frequency of the RF carrier from a spacecraft, at a low signal to noise ratio, was developed for the Mariner V S-band occultation experiment. The technique consisted of analog recording of the noisy signal, simultaneously with a high-frequency tone. This tone was used as a clock to trigger a digitizer. After digitization, spectra were taken at several points to permit fitting a polynomial to the frequency. Digital filtering techniques, in which the signal was moved, in frequency, to stay in the filter bandpass, were then applied. The filtered data were then processed by a digital phase-locked receiver program that gave amplitude and frequency versus time as outputs. Several iterations were required to reach thelevel of -190 dBm at which point the signal was lost."
"Operational tests were conducted using simple visual receiving equipment to determine the consistency of the apparent times of arrival of Loran-C sky-wave signals at ranges from 1000 to 6000 km. Measurements were made from St. Thomas, Bermuda, and the Boston area, and comparison with ground-wave times of arrival were made using automatic receivers where available. Time-of-arrival consistency was observed to be within ±20 μs. The predictability of propagation delays, based on U.S. Naval Observatory estimated ground-wave delays, modified by sky-wave corrections published by the U. S. Naval Hydrographic Office, is discussed in connection with precise long-range clock synchronization using visual Loran-C equipment."
"An experiment performed in late 1967 is reported which investigated the synchronization of widely separated clocks. One-way VHF timing signals were relayed to remote clocks from a reference clock by means of a transponder on a geostationary satellite. The problem of synchronizing clocks using one-way transmission reduces to the problem of predicting the radio propagation delay. The accuracy of predicting the delay was 10 As or 60 Ms depending on the method used. This technique may offer an alternative to transporting atomic standards to geodetic and spacecraft tracking stations around the world in fulfillment of their clock synchronization requirements."
"A new dual-dry-load calorimeter, incorporating automatically controlled reference dc input power, has been developed at the National Bureau of Standards. The calorimeter will be used as a reference standard at frequencies from dc to 4.0 GHz in the power range of 10 mW to 1 watt. The maxmum measurement uncertainty is 0.26 percent at frequencies below 1 GHz and 0.35 percent at frequencies above 1 GHz. The time required for the measurement system to reach equilibrium is less than two minutes. Construction details and design of the calorimetric and feedback control system are given, along with an error analysis and results of intercomparisons with other standards."
"A new instrument is discussed for measuring negative conductance of an active element at the microwave region with enough stability and with high precision. The fundamental principle of the instrument is that of the impedance comparator. This instrument has a small rotating shielded loop located just above the center of the Tee branch, the three terminals of which are connected to the active element, to the standard susceptance, and to the signal generator, respectively. The instrument has the following special features: 1) the use of a shielded loop, 2) the use of negative standard susceptance for allowing the normalized conductance of the sample to be positive, 3) no restriction for the value of the negative conductance, and 4) the use of a short-circuit line as the susceptance standard for the dc return circuit of the active element. Analytical considerations are given for errors concerned with the loss in the short circuit, with the position and the shape of the small shielded loop, and with the phase difference between the current on the Tee branch and the magnetic field at the center of the loop. This instrument has proved to have high precision in measuring the admittance of an Esaki diode at 1 GHz. (The residual VSWR is less than 1.03). Therefore, it can be said that this instrument is an excellent aid for measuring negative conductance up to several GHz."
"With the increasing demands for accuracy in microwave measurements, mismatch corrections are assuming an increased importance. In the application of a terminating-type power meter, the appropriate mismatch factor involves the complex reflection coefficients of the generator, load, and power meter. Instead of measuring the individual reflection coefficients, which usually calls for the use of a slotted line, a directional coupler technique is described that obtains the mismatch factor directly."
"A technique is presented for the measurement of the transmission and reflection scattering coefficients of microwave networks by Fourier analysis of the sampled transient response of the network to impulsive or steplike waveforms. It is demonstrated that the method can reduce errors due to mismatch of the components of the measurment system by sampling the response over a finite time domain window that excludes unwanted reflected components. A review is made of the errors introduced due to aliasing, truncation, and noiselike sources such as timing jitter and additive noise, and a description is then given of an experimental system to evaluate the technique, based on use of a 12-GHz sampling oscilloscope for measurement of the transient response and a suitable form of the fast Fourier transform algorithm. Measurements on some typical wide-band components are presented, and it is concluded that for very broad-band measurements with moderate resolution the method has a potential accuracy of about ±0.1 dB and ±1°, with a significant reduction in mismatch errors."
"A system is described using a sweep generator, a slotted line with a broad-band probe, a sliding load which can be coupled mechanically to the probe carriage, a logarithmic amplifier, and a read-out device which can measure the VSWR of coaxial components continuously versus frequency. The technique is especially effective for the measurement of the VSWR of low-loss two-port networks and of residual VSWR of a slotted line where the elimination of termination reflections is accomplished automatically without computation. The technique of making swept-frequency VSWR measurements using slotted lines is described in detail. The use of a logarithmic RF ratio meter and dual-channel arrangement enables the operator to read the VSWR continuously versus frequency directly from the X-Y plot or scope trace independent of frequency sensitivity of the probe or of the sweep generator output or amplitude instability of the sweep generator. It is shown that the mechanical coupling of a termination sliding in a reference line with the probe carriage provides the equivalent of a reflection-free termination and allows the measurement of the magnitude of the reflection scattering coefficients independent of the loss or phase shift within the microwave component. The heart of the measurement system is a slotted line having a dielectric support at the measurement end with a reflection coefficient below 0.005 up to 18 GHz. By connecting the reference airline with the sliding termination directly to the slotted line output the overall residual VSWR of the measurement system is determined directly and continuously versus frequency."
"A method for measuring dielectric loss tangents is described that combines coherent optical resonator techniques with conventional microwave techniques to yield very high measurement accuracies. A very important feature of the technique is that the equation relating tan δto the experimentally measurable quantities is an algebraic expression instead of a transcendental equation. The method basically consists of perturbing a microwave confocal resonator with a dielectric sheet placed normal to the axis of the resonator. The change in Q and the change in cavitylength necessary to restore resonance can then be related to the loss tangent of the dielectric. For the general case, where the dielectric is placed at any location along the axis of the resonator, the working mathematical equation is a complex transcendental expression. However, if the dielectric sheet is constrained to be at the center of the resonator and each reflector is moved inward an equal amount to restore resonance, then the equation simplifies and is no longer transcendental. These constraints are easily satisfied experimentally. The technique has been used to measure the loss tangents of several common dielectrics at 35 GHz and the results are presented."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Prospective authors are requested to submit new, unpublished manuscripts for inclusion in the upcoming event described in this call for papers."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Provides notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"This index covers all technical items that appeared in this periodical during the year."
"The index contains an entry for all items that appeared during the year."
"A comprehensive listing of the articles and departments included in 1968."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Provides notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Too often, engineers spend a great deal of time worrying about the sophisticated technical parameters of their problems but forget or ignore the equally important non-technical factors that will determine whether their innovations will ever get off the shelf and into the marketplace. Yet we all know that the continued success and viability of the engineering profession is sensitively dependent on our ability to cycle innovations into profits."
"The relationship between spot size and magnetic correction of the electron beams for convergence and purity is described for color picture tubes. It is shown how this correction can impair picture resolution in modern electron guns. An optimum arrangement of correction magnets is presented which improves resolution while maintaining convergence and purity functions. Actual receiver tests indicate a 35% improvement in resolution using the same corrective magnets in the optimum positions. This improvement will enable small diameter electron guns as well as einzel focus electron guns to be used in color television receivers."
"A new color picture tube named SONY \"TRINITRON\" has been developed, based on a concept or electron optics which is different from conventional color picture tubes. \"TRINITRON\" has a three-beamed-single gun, unlike the conventional picture tubes with three independent electron guns, each of which emits an electron beam in order to produce the respective primary color image on the picture screen. In \"TRINITRON\", single gun emits simultaneous three electron beams. \"TRINITRON\" electron optical system comprises a common electron lens system for the three beams and consists of two electron lenses of large aperture openings, with a pair of electron prisms (deflector) for the color convergence. The large aperture electron lens in \"TRINITRON\" greatly improves the brightness and the sharpness of the picture. In the newly designed electron optical system, three beams pass through the center of this large lens and make pictures brighter and sharper with less aberration. In addition to this new three-beamed single gun, a new color defining mechanism named \"APERTURE GRILL\" has been developed. It has better beam transparency, which again makes the picture brighter than with the shadow mask; and the \"APERTURE GRILL\" is as easy to manufacture as the former. Fig. 1 shows a photograph of a 14V\" shadow mask tube using the \"TRINITRON\" electron gun (right) compared with a 14V\" shadow mask tube using a conventional 3-gun (left)."
"A complete color processing circuitry has been designed using integrated Metal-Oxide-Semiconductor techniques. The primary objectives in this work are 1) Show feasibility of integrated circuit MTOS for this application 2) Establish design rules enabling circuit designer to utilize this technology, allowing sufficient flexibility of design and 3) Show potential for cost savings over established tube and/or bipolar transistor approaches by considering the total systems cost. The evolved design uses four MTOS chips to perform the following functions: 1. Chroma-Burst Separator-Amp-Keyer-Color Killer. 2. Color Demodulator 3. Color Matrix 4. Color Synchronization"
"The use of an emitter peaked transistor amplifier to provide luminance drive to the cathodes of a large screen color CRT is considered. The linear, small signal characteristics of emitter peaking are analyzed using pole-zero techniques. This theory is then checked by comparing numerical calculations to experimental measurements. The theoretical results in conjunction with certain practical considerations are then used to develop a useful design procedure. This is accompanied by a sample design. Collector peaking circuits are well documented in the literature and will not be discussed in this paper."
"A synchronous switching technique is presented as an alternate to the voltage variable capacitance diode or reactance tube. The system shown does not require special components and lends itself to integration. The maximum and minimum effective capacitance values become independent variables and not a primary function of the reactance device. Examples of a 3.58 megacycle per second Clapp crystal oscillator and reactance combination are shown and the results plotted; but the technique can be applied to any usable frequency."
"A new color-signal processing system is described which utilizes digital methods to decode the three color-difference signals from the NTSC signal. Using a 3.58 MHz crystal multivibrator as the basic time element, sampling pulses, initiated by the color burst and terminated by the following horizontal synchronizing pulse, are generated by low-level digital logic elements. These sampling pulses, delayed the appropriate time, are then used to demodulate the color-difference signals from the chrominance signal. Since the sampling pulses exist only during the active time following each color burst, no color killer is required. The system, referred to at Texas Instruments as \"Color Command,\" uses Monolithic Integrated Circuits to generate the reference waveform and the sampling pulses, and to demodulate the chrominance signal."
"This paper intends to analyze the reception conditions of a RF input circuit (preselection) which is tuned by a variable capacitance diode (Tuner-Diode). A formula will be derived from its capacitance - voltage characteristic. This equation will be discussed with respect to dynamic and static frequency stability and parameter deviations. Circuit alternatives will be proposed to optimize frequency stability."
"This paper describes a solid state television tuner capable of tuning all 82 U.S. channels. Significant attainments in terms of cost reduction and performance enhancement are achieved. Design concepts as well as economic factor are discussed."
"A one watt AC MOS-Bipolar Audio Amplifier having a voltage gain exceeding 20 db and the pass-band extending to sub-audio frequencies (-3db point of 0.1 Hz) has been designed and integrated. A unique pre-amp employing MOS transistors and a unity gain n-p-n transistor overcomes the disadvantages of the \"Unibi\" amplifier. Performance characteristics of the breadboard and the integrated amplifier are presented."
"Based on the most commonly used circuit for the FM RF amplifier, criteria for optimum device characteristics are developed. A survey of available junction FET's indicates that they might be graded into three generations, examples of which are then judged in light of the criteria above and the performance required in this application. Practical use of second generation devices is shown to require either a neutralized, or a cascode configuration. An unneutralized third generation JFET circuit is compared to neutralized and cascode circuits with second generation devices to show the significance of the difference between generations."
"A recent development program consisted of the design and fabrication of integrated circuits for use in a broad class of AM/FM receivers. Various circuit designs were considered and a partitioning scheme was evolved utilizing three integrated circuits. Here the integrated circuits are described and performance data on a receiver are presented. Conclusions are drawn as to the proposed future work in this area."
"In spite of the similarity in the Domestic television market U.S. and U.K. receiver designs differ appreciably. In the U.K. virtually all receivers are hybrid, valves being retained for the output circuits only. In the signal amplifying circuits transistors can give improved noise performance, particularly at U.H.F., and varicap diodes simplify the mechanical aspects of the tuner. The video and signal processing circuits are again ones that lend themselves to transistor circuitry, particularly in the case of colour receivers. The power supply for a transistor receiver imposes a cost penalty and conventional tube circuits provide the most economic solution for the scanning system. High voltage semiconductor diodes, however, can simplify the e.h.t. generator circuit in a colour receiver. The combination of transistors and tubes pose many problems to the receiver designer. One major hazard to transistors is the effect of picture tube flashover. This gives rise to excessive voltage and current transients in a receiver and protection is necessary."
"This paper explains a new video IF amplifier for color television incorporating a high performance integrated circuit and a discrete output transistor. The integrated circuit (XC1352P) functions in two capacities: first as a unilateralized 50db gain IF amplifier with 65db usable AGC range; and second as a gated keyer and AGC amplifier with delayed AGC output for the tuner. The discrete transistor (MPS6544) with low Cre; functions as an un-neutralized output stage driving the detectors. Overall sensitivity is 250μV rms at 44MHz for 3V detected output (70db power gain). Admittance variations with AGC are negligible, leaving the in-channel pass band and adjacent channel rejection independent of AGC. The above characteristics indicate that video IF amplifiers superior to those used today can be made by incorporating both the XC1352P and MPS6544. Encapsulation of the dual function integrated circuit in a single 14 pin dual in-line plastic package will bring the overall cost of these functions down to competitive prices."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Provides notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"A system for transforming the NTSC color signal into a double sideband subcarrier signal is described in this paper. The system operates to restore the lost upper sidebands of the \"I\" signal by modulating a double frequency color carrier with the I information. The system has the advantage of being applicable to direct color decoders."
"The requirements for a transistor to drive both monochrome and color picture tubes are discussed. Realistic device models are presented to demonstrate the permissible parameter trade-offs and a figure of merit for video output devices is derived. A transistor to meet these criteria is introduced and its performance in various circuit configurations is discussed."
"This paper describes a design technique which may be taken by a potential user of linear integrated circuits who wishes, for technical and proprietary reasons, to develop custom silicon monolithic integrated circuits. Essentially this approach provides a set of IC'components interconnected to furnish building blocks which contain the singular active and passive device characteristics available in monolithic integrated circuits. The steps are detailed by which the integrated circuit device requirements, monolithic processing sequence and device geometries were established. The performance characteristics of the resultant IC components are also described. Finally, circuit examples are shown which illustrate how the use of these building blocks is necessary for an optimum linear integrated circuit design."
"This paper outlines general considerations of silicon monolithic integrated circuit design. It then reviews principles of gate demodulation with special emphasis on stereo and color signal demodulations. The ideas presented are merged to form the basis for discussion of the design and development of two monolithic integrated circuits. An FM broadcast stereo demodulator is described which encompasses the functions of subcarrier regeneration as well as additional functions of inter-station mute, weak signal demodulator defeat, indicator lamp driver, and inter-stereo-station mute. A versatile monolithic color demodulator is described which is capable of either direct or difference signal color demodulation. In addition, this IC has provisions for blanking and the option of brightness/luminance control."
"If the bandwidth of an RF tuned circuit is satisfactory at a few decibels down, it is often assumed that its attenuation continues to increase progressively with further departures from the resonant frequency. That this is not the case for many practical resonant circuits is demonstrated by measurements of the performance of the RF input tuned circuits of several television receivers. Typical variations from simple resonant circuit response are shown to be such as to make the receivers vulnerable to interference from strong signals on freqencies far from the wanted channel. It is suggested that, by giving more attention to the selectivity at frequencies away from resonance, designers will have the possibility of reducing the susceptibility of receivers to certain types of interference."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"Although the overall aims of university engineering education in the U. S. A. and the U. K. are broadly similar, the means of achieving these aims in the two countries are rather different. This paper discusses teaching methods and philosophies in the Department of Electronics at the University of Southampton and compares them with attitudes in the U. S. A. First, high-school curricula in the U. K. are reviewed, as they determine the quality of students at university entry. Then, the probable future pattern of industry, and the aims of a university education are discu sed. The courses devised to train both \"systems\" and \"device\" engineers, including the all-important laboratory training, are outlined together with examination and assessment techniques. Postgraduate activities include a new type of postgraduate Master's degree course in semiconductor product technology and industrial techniques."
"A sound foundation in generalized mechanics is an important element in broadly based electrical engineering curricula. It is suggested that neglect of this basic subject is frequently evidenced by incorrect or ineffective use of the methods of generalized mechanics in the solution of electrical engineering problems. Application of the principle of virtual work to the problem of the equilibrium forces for a system of electrically charged conductors, and of Lagrange's equations to the problem of the forces for a system of current-carrying conductors, are discussed as relevant examples. Reference is made to the far more general problems which can be effectively treated by dynamical methods, including electromechanical energy converters, generalized networks, and electrical and mechanical vibrations. The close relationship of state-variable methods to Hamilton's canonical equations is noted. Finally, the modem trend toward genealization of knowledge, the increasing stress on systems concepts, and the broadening interests of electrical engineers, all point to the desirability of including a significant treatment of variational mechanics in electrical engineering curricula."
"An elementary discussion of photoconductivity is proposed to be a suitable addition to instruction on basic semiconductor theory. A discussion designed for junior electrical engineering students is presented in which photoconductivity is defined and both qualitative and elementary quantitative descriptions are given. A brief look is taken at the energy band structure and impurity levels in germanium, and the application of photoconductivity to infrared detection is considered."
"A useful tool for introducing students to certain fundamentals of digital computation is a hypothetical, simplified digital computer. Such a computer is described, as well as the actual simulation of the hypothetical computer on a physical machine. Additional educational aids are introduced."
"Some considerations related to including material on unipolar transistors in electronics curricula are presented. Techniques for estimating the ultimate capabilities of the unipolar transistor and a simple method for deriving circuit models are described. Important aspects of the processing are treated, and the speed and gain capabilities of unipolar and bipolar transistors are compared in terms of basic structural and material parameters. In the estimation of the ultimate capabilities of the unipolar transistor, the maximum charge that can be induced in the channel sets the upper limits for the static performance and the limiting carrier velocity sets the upper limits for the dynamicperformance. The details of pinch-off operation receive attention, particularly those that could yield confusion in a classroom presentation. Where possible, for clarity as well as for conciseness, the analysis uses a basic unipolar structure of which the junction-gate FET and the MOS transistor are special cases. Throughout, consideration is given to the application of unipolar transistors in integrated circuits."
"The use of a digital computer to improve the communication between a teacher and his students is discussed. Specifically, a program is described which can provide effective grading and critique of problem assignments and tests. The program is designed for the \"batch-processing\" type of computer operation."
"Since only one mistake in programmed instruction can completely upset the leaming process, pretesting of programs is essential. A low-cost method for such pretesting is presented. The time to finish a frame by answering a question is measured and recorded, as well as whether the answer is right or wrong. An additional feedback about unclear situations is provided by a \"don't know\" response which is not timed. Equipment is described which consists of a portable presentation unit for printed programs mounted on paper, together with eight response push buttons, a signal unit for marking the responses, and a tape recorder. The records may later be handled in stationary data processing equipment. The method and equipment were tested in an experiment with a linear program used by twelve students. The results in the form of error frequencies, uncertainty frequencies, average time taken, and time distributions are given. From these the program is analyzed and the needs for revision pinpointed."
"In the past two years a Digital Systems Project Laboratory has been developed within the Department of Electrical Engineering at Massachusetts Institute of Technology. The major objective is to allow the student to acquire a working knowledge of digital systems early in his undergraduate career. The emphasis is experimental, but about one-third of the semester is devoted to classroom activities. The classroom portion of the subject is used to present theoretical material normally unavailable to the student until the latter part of his junior year. However, the principal emphasis, even in the classroom, is on the design and implementation of moderately complex digital systems using integrated circuits at realistic speeds. A modular equipment system is described. An evaluation of the subject has been made by the students and most of them consider it to be as interesting and valuable as most classroom subjects."
"Simple experiments on systems and analogs enable engineering students to realize the relationship between mathematical analysis and the physical behavior of linear systems. Suitably chosen studies, in increasing degrees of complexity, show how simple apparatus is used to present linear system theory in the laboratory."
"In today's electrical engineering curriculum, the use of the circle diagram as a teaching and analytical tool is all but forgotten. It has been neglected by the majority of recent textbooks on electromagnetic devices and electric circuits. Yet there are electrical devices whose behavior can easily be understood and analyzed by the use of circle diagrams. In fact, in some cases the use of circle diagrams makes the solution almost a trivial exercise. The graphical and constructional procedures of circle diagrams are presented, and then the circle diagram is employed to analyze two problems: 1) the variation of the mutual and net coil fluxes of a two-winding transformer with varying secondary load impedance, and 2) the study of the variation of the secondary and load voltages of an autotransformer whose load varies from open to short circuit."
"Signal-flow graph technique is one of the most versatile methods in the modem analysis of linear networks and systems. This technique was therefore incorporated into a senior course on linear circuits in a Canadian university. Students were, in general, fascinated by the easy manipulation of the variables of interest, but they tended to use Mason's formula even when it was not applicable, e.g., when the desired quantity was the transmission gain from a nonsource node to another node, thus obtaining a wrong answer. Two rules are proposed by which any node, nonsource or sink, in the signal-flow graph can be directly converted to a source node, without rewriting the set of system equations of the original graph. These rules thus make it possible to obtain various quantities, i.e., gains and network functions, through simple graphical manipulations."
"The problem of radiation of a surface wave by an elemental vertical electric dipole on an impedance plane is formulated in terms of a surface integral. This integral is solved approximately in one dimension, while integration with respect to the second dimension is achieved through Laplace transform methods. The result is the same as that obtained through the classical formulation using a spectrum of plane waves, but the use of a constant surface impedance avoids the difficulties of solving a boundary-value problem. The influence of the Fresnel zones is clearly indicated, and the effect of electrical parameters of the surface is discussed. Since the treatment is simpler and more compact than the usual classical solution, while retaining nearly all the salient features of the latter, it may prove useful as an introduction to surface wave propagation at the introductory graduate level."
"Several simplifications in the current realization methods for third-order paramount matrices are presented, based on classroom experiences in the teaching of resistance network synthesis."
"The basic concepts are discussed which underlie the development of a commercially available slide rule designed to perform dimensional operations. The concept and the slide rule are readily learned aids for teaching and emphasizing the importance and techniques of dimensional analysis. The basis for the device is the relating of physical quantities by numerical values, resulting from a consideration of the physical laws as a set of simultaneous equations with real roots."
"A simple approach to the classroom presentation of symmetrical networks is discussed. This approach offers a better understanding of the properties of general symmetrical networks, with or without crossed middle terminals, without restorting to ideal transformers."
"A proper fraction A/B is written as a finite or infinite sum of fractions whose denominators, or numerators, are prescribed. The results yield resistive realizations for A/B."
"The existing symbolic method for the partial inversion of coefficient matrices in a system of linear equations does not cover all possible cases. The method is extended here to include the missing cases, and some classroom simplifications of the original manipulation rules are introduced."
"A time-phasor diagram is generally used to display amplitude and phase relationships between currents and voltages existing in an electrical network. However, although the simple equivalent circuit corresponding to steady-state operation of the round rotor synchronous machine and its associated phasor diagram are very familiar, the phasor diagram of the salient-pole machine is presented in many undergraduate texts without any attempt to specify the displayed quantities on a related circuit diagram. An equivalent circuit for the unsaturated salient-pole synchronous machine operated under balanced, steady-state conditions is derived from a consideration of the voltage and current equations implicit in the phasor diagram. Further equations are developed such that a knowledge of the terminal loading conditions of the machine, together with its armature resistance and synchronous reactances, enables the equivalent circuit parameters to be calculated. The unexcited synchronous reluctance machine is considered as a special case."
"An algorithm is described which is used to determine the coefficients of the denominator polynomial of a bandpass network function. The polynomial is related to the denominator polynomial of a lowpass function by the lowpass to bandpass transformation. The algorithm is readily implemented on the digital computer."
"For the purpose of classroom and laboratory demonstration of linear system frequency response, the technique of applying a sinusoid of linearly varying frequency is especially dynamic. Here the restrictions on frequency sweep rate and observation time for which the envelope of the output signal is the system frequency response are clearly developed. It is shown that for such restrictions the output is a sinusoidal of frequency (ω+ºt) with instantaneous amplitude |G(j[ω+;2αt])|."
"A method is given of modifying a number of passive two-port networks so that they all realize their respective specified short-circuit transfer admittances within the same constant multiplier without affecting their short-circuit driving point admittances. This technique is useful in the realization of right-half plane transmission zeros of a specified open-circuit voltage transfer function wherein the two sub-networks, before interconnecting them in a particular fashion, have to be made to realize their respective specified short-circuit transfer admittances within the same constant multiplier. When the specified open-circuit voltage transfer function has all simple negative real zeros, an alternative method of decomposing it, so that the resulting network has a fewer number of elements, is also indicated."
"This invited paper was presented at the Second Panamerican Congress of Mechanical and Electrical Engineering. A one-year graduate program in electric power engineering has been in operation at Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute since the fall of 1962; it has been quite successful, with the number of participating students increasing tenfold in this five-year period, from three students in 1962 to thirty-five students in 1967. Among a total 10 percent of students from outside the United States in the program, some are from South American countries. This program is based on engineering education, with emphasis on the electrical phase, acquired in studies leading to a first degree on the bachelor level. Completion of the program results in the Master of Engineering degree. The students devote about half of their time to electric power engineering topics, and the other half to advanced studies covering engineering economics, mathematics, and applied physics. A suggested syllabus includes a variety of recommended courses which enable the student to develop a coordinated program that is general enough to provide a well-rounded foundation for continued studies in specialized areas."
"Corrections are made to Table I, the response for Case 2 and in Case 4 the region for the last integral in the above-named work (ibid., vol. E-10, pp. 45-47, March 1967)."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"Few formal programs have been developed with the specific goals of enabling faculty members to further their education in new and developing technical areas and to work towards advanced degrees in a planned sequence of summer courses. A summer graduate program for electrical engineering teachers was instituted in 1962 at Worcester Polytechnic Institute as a result of many months of discussion in the ASEE Division of Electrical Engineering of how best to serve a critical continuing education need of faculty members, particularly in the smaller and sometimes isolated engineering schools of the nation. In six years of operation, the summer graduate program has enrolled 91 students from 71 different schools in 31 states, Puerto Rico, and five foreign countries. Many participants had no specific degree goals. However, in this period six have completed M. S. degrees and seven have earned a Ph.D. degree. Twelve additional faculty members are well along on their doctoral programs. Most doctoral students spend at least a year on the Worcester Polytechnic Institute campus doing their research, although provisions are made for their research to be done at their own schools in some cases. The upgrading accomplished by the program is evident from the jobs many of the participants accepted at the completion of their programs. The summer program is beginning to attract increasing numbers of participants from technically oriented junior colleges. The program concept is applicable to faculty members in most or all engineering disciplines."
"Various suggestions for modification of the electrical engineering curricula are briefly reviewed; importance of the laboratory is discussed; and guidelines for a new curriculum, based on a reasonably equal division between theory and laboratory, are presented."
"This paper attempts to show that the applications to educational planning models of what is called systems analysis have been, thus far, unsuccessful. Several basic fallacies in previous works are cited. Attention is then focused on input-output analysis, an approach much favored in educational planning models. It is shown how misleading the results of input-output analysis can be. The paper concludes with an analogy and a suggestion that the real problems of educational planning should be attacked in the proper manner."
"Because science and technology are changing more and more rapidly with time, the tempo of university curriculum modernization is increasing and the problem of engineering obsolescence is becoming more acute. This paper, written from the viewpoint of an engineer in the research and development segment of industry, introduces three central concepts from general semantics: 1) levels of abstraction, 2) multiordinality, and 3) semantic reactions. I feel that the student electrical engineer can benefit from considering explicitly the number of times he must remove himself mentally from the physical world in creating a model of reality, from discussing the gray area between Aristotelian yes-no abstractions, and from realizing the emotional content of verbal phrases in the lay as well as technical vocabulary. The body of the paper discusses, in a preliminary way, several areas in the electrical engineering curriculum where these concepts might be used to advantage in preparing the student to enter, with an increased awareness, upon his professional \"career of change.\""
"To a student in linear graph theory, many concepts which later become almost second nature often need at first step-by-step, concrete demonstrations. For example, cut sets and cut vertices become increasingly meaningful if the student is given a procedure whereby he, by himself, can correctly and confidently identify all cut sets and cut vertices in any given graph no matter how complex. For this purpose, an earlier definition of ambits is extended to provide the basis for a combinatorial method for finding all cut sets and cut vertices of a connected graph. As by-products, interesting properties of ambits are disclosed."
"An engineering course for freshmen is described. The course begins with a discussion of the philosophy of preliminary design and then moves to certain \"macroconcepts\" used in the design process: These are: economics, energy, thermodynamics, information, human factors, and optimization. An important feature of the course is a weekly three-hour design laboratory in which the principles covered in lecture are applied to realistic engineering problems."
"This paper presents an example of the broad applicability of techniques developed initially for use in a specialized field. Describing-function techniques, which are useful in the analysis of nonlinear circuits, are applied to the analysis of thermally selfexcited mechanical oscillators. The amplitude and frequency behavior predicted by this method of analysis are in qualitative agreement with the observed behavior of typical oscillators."
"An algorithm is presented for the synthesis of combinational networks with a constrained arrangement of ANDs, ORs, NANDs, NORs, and inverters. The algorithn is easily presented to students in an introductory logic design course and has considerable application in modem practical logic design. Many texts available for a first course in logic design give very limited practical guidance for synthesis of networks under constraints outlined here. It is suggested that the algorithm presented here be furnished as supplementary material in the introductory course."
"Analysis of waveform distortion in linear systems has been taught in several ways. The approach introduced here is based upon the mean-square difference between the input and output signals. Both deterministic and random signals can be accommodated, the only requirements for a mathematical analysis being knowledge of the input-signal autocorrelation function and the unit-impulse response of the linear system. The corresponding experimental procedure is based on comparison of the output signal with a replica of the input signal which has been delayed and attenuated in order to minimize the mean-square difference. Examples are included which analyze the effect of transmitting either a sinusoidal signal or a bandlimited random signal through an RC low-pass filter. Agreement between theory and experiment is good."
"Simple routines are described which give plotting capability to FORTRAN II computers equipped with only the standard printer. Examples of the work are given in addition to the routines themselves. No extra equipment or special operator attention is required."
"A method for generating restricted partitions of numbers is presented as an aid in helping the student construct three-arc cycles in certain directed graphs. Through this and similar devices the study of linear graph theory, as a whole, becomes more real to the student."
"Fourier and Ritz describing functions are obtained for the damped, driven Duffing equation. These results are compared to the pseudo-describing function, which is defined as the ratio of the first harmonic output amplitude obtained with a real filter to the input amplitude. The results indicate that the Ritz describing function is a better approximation to the pseudo-describing function. Since a number of important nonlinear systems can be represented or approximated by the Duffing equation, it seems that the Ritz describing function has significance as another tool in nonlinear system analysis."
"The treatment of initial conditions in many textbooks and consequently in many courses on linear network analysis is not well systematized and, at best, is weakly presented. The purpose here is to discuss initial conditions in such a manner that it will not cause confusion when applied to linear system problems. Some ideas that are not widely known are presented, which are well suited for undergraduate engineering instruction."
"The z-transform method of analysis of sampled-data control systems is developed without the usual references to impulse functions. It is felt that this development is desirable for an introductory course in sampled-data control systems, since the student is not given the impression that z-transform analysis is dependent on an assumption of the existence of impulse functions. Further, this development is more rigorous, since the mathematical difficulties associated with the impulse functions are avoided."
"The Smith chart has long been recognized as a useful classroom aid in the study of transmission lines and waveguides. It could also be used for more general n-port network calculations, except that normalizing with respect to a complex characteristic impedance can lead to left half-plane normalized impedances and, consequently, points outside the standard Smith chart even for passive terminations. A simple transformation is presented which permits the direct use of the standard Smith chart in such cases. Detailed examples of a filter and low-frequency transmission line are presented."
"Multiplication of appropriate real functions is shown to correspond to convolution of their Laplace transforms as a contour integral."
"The popular and powerful method of Laplace transform sometimes brings fret and frustration to the user because of difficulties occasionally encountered in the final inversion process. One such case in point is found in a viscoelastokinetic problem where formulas for the final inversion of the solutions in the transformed plane are not available in the literature. In this paper, for the purpose of bridging the gap, two Laplace inversions of fundamental importance are reported. The first, £-1[πe-pI1(p2-a2)], is evaluated by solving an integral equation of Poisson's type on a digital computer. The results of this inversion are presented in the form of graphs for several values of the parameter a. The second inversion, £-1[πe-pI2(p2-a-2)], is found in closed form. With these inversions and the available inversion for the zeroth order function, the inversions of any other higher order modified Bessel function with similar arguments can be obtained either by the use of the usual recurrence formula, or by a specially developed general reduction formula. The modified Bessel functions of any integral order can be reduced to terms involving only the zeroth and the first order functions."
"In dealing with linear time-invariant systems, one often encounters the partial fraction expansion of rational functions. For the case of multiple and complex conjugate poles, the traditional Heaviside's expansion involves differential calculus and complex algebra, respectively. Recursive techniques based on the extended definition of the initial value theorem effectively eliminate both calculus and algebra. These techniques are amenable to digital computation and can save time and labor for the student."
"The well-known theorems of Thevenin and Norton are again proved here. The method presented has been found to receive greater response from students, as it simultaneously gives them a clear insight into the mesh and node-pair methods of analysis and the principles of linear graph theory."
"To obtain transfer functions from given time-delay functions it is necessary to solve the simultaneous linear equations Aλ = y (1) where the solution λ is known to have only the values ±1 as its components. Standard techniques require calculating the inverse A-1 of the matrix A. A method is presented that uses the known form of the solution to avoid the matrix inversion."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"Continuing education is treated in its broadest aspects, including both degree- and nondegree-oriented programs. The need for imaginative new mechanisms to accomplish a vast expansion of the scope of present efforts is now well recognized in the engineering community. The authors contend that while there is no universal solution to the general problem, the medium of television can be used in a variety of ways to make a major contribution. More specifically, television can effect a more intimate association between a university and its surrounding professional community to the mutual benefit of both. This paper first outlines some of the ingredients we consider vital to a successful continuing education system. Next we briefly describe the proposed Stanford University Instructional Television Network, which contains many key features not now incorporated in existing television education programs at other universities. Finally, we extrapolate beyond the Stanford system to future possibilities for extending even further the utilization of television in meeting the need."
"Electrooptical engineering has become of great importance in defense and industrial communities. Great strides have been made in the sciences of optics to the extent that much of the lore and knowledge is available for engineering purposes. In the same way instrumentation and industrial engineering has developed a curriculum that has become an integral part of the entire field, electrooptical engineering is finding its place in the technology of today. Several schools have been developing curricula for graduate and undergraduate studies. This paper outlines one man's opinions on the subjects, which, when mastered, will equip a young engineer for fruitful contributions to electrooptical engineering."
"One class of logic circuits has inputs that are functions of fundamental variables. Other inputs may include aspects of the fundamental variables themselves. A method for improving the understanding of these circuits, based on the Karnaugh map method, is presented here. In addition to providing a teaching tool, it has advantages when used as a design technique. It will show readily when there are no possible solutions, will test easily for constraints, and will present easily optimized solutions."
"A laboratory facility is described that provides for the experimental study of digital control systems. The activities of the laboratory are designed to permit experiments in data conversion, data acquisition, hybrid system simulation, computer control of typical physical processes, and binary and decimal data transfer between a digital computer and peripheral equipment. The main facility of the laboratory is a PDP-8 computer, a small general-purpose computer. The laboratory program is part of an educational program in the study of discrete systems and computer control system. This program is also briefly described."
"Many specialized theoretical and experimental studies have been carried out on noble-gas plasma diodes in order to determine the operating characteristics of a particular mode. Even though the modes of cesium plasma diodes have been characterized rather completely by Bullis, no comparable summary has been developed for noble-gas systems. In this paper, the operation of hotcathode parallel-plane plasma diodes is reviewed and the characteristics of the anode-glow, ball-of-fire, Langmuir, temperature-limited, low-voltage arc, and tufted-anode modes are classified and discussed in terms of the volt-ampere characteristics for different load lines. The operation of noble-gas diodes is compared to that of cesium diodes and the interpretation of the volt-ampere characteristic is related to available experimental data. The visual characteristics of each mode are also displayed to aid in the interpretation of the behavior. The correlation between theory and a variety of experiments substantiates the contention that the limitation imposed on the diode current by the cathode is responsible for the previous confusion about the various modes of operation."
"A technique is described for obtaining approximate solutions to the wave equation when a dielectric variation exists in the direction of propagation. The method consists of approximating the true dielectric variation with several adjacent slabs having exponentially varying characteristics. Solutions in each region include Bessel function of purely imaginary order. A variety of these previously untabulated functions are presented so that the solutions in each slab can be joined at the boundaries. The method offers the possibility of an analytical determination of fields in many cases which would otherwise require a more extensive solution technique."
"Switching circuits such as multivibrators and relaxation oscillators require a negative resistance for their operation. The (almost) instantaneous switching performed by these circuits is not convincingly explained in the standard texts. An analysis is presented, which is based on conventional pole-zero techniques."
"Properties of symmetrical networks are usually obtained through symmetrical and antisymmetrical excitations. A different approach that reveals new properties for symmetrical networks, under any form of excitation, is presented. This approach illustrates one of the advantages of using superposition with variables and sources."
"A simple integrating circuit is employed to determine the leakage reactance of a transformer winding. An advantage of the method is that the wave shape of the winding current is unimportant and for teaching purposes the method readily shows that leakage flux is proportional to winding current and is independent of core flux."
"The need to modernize and upgrade engineering curricula by introducing courses in direct energy conversion (DEC) at both graduate and undergraduate level is emphasized. It is suggested that an introductory coutse in DEC be initiated at the senior level. The inherently interdisciplinary nature and the scope of DEC are outlined. Partial lists of research and seminar projects, and companies manufacturing laboratory and research equipment in DEC are presented."
"The grading of student problems where there can be a wide range in the form of correct answers is difficut, because of the algebraic manipulation required to verify correctness. Numerical testing can quickly separate those answers that are correct from those in error, greatly increasing the efficiency of the grader."
"This paper justifies the need for an advising system in an engineering school and defines the objectives of academic advisement, in general. Suggestions for successful advisement are given to faculty advisors, and eleven specific recommendations for administering a successful advising program are submitted."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"The application of communication devices based on technology to undergraduate engineering education is accelerating. A question may be raised to what extent such devices are being used and can be used in continuing engineering education. A federal interagency committee is looking at this question. Herein is a synopsis of data developed through the activity of the committee. This paper is a challenge to educators, employers, officials of engineering and scientific societies, and government, in their combined efforts to improve the availability and quality of continuing engineering education."
"The combination of blackboard-by-wire plus Picturephone is analyzed as a tutorial communication system to teach engineers at their job locations. This developing system, based on use of the common-carrier telephone system, has advantages over closedcircuit (talkback) television systems. The remote blackboard can be three panels for nearly \"full-wall\" presentation, and two-way video may be added fairly economically. Using the common-carrier system maximizes flexibility (access to any termination in the entire switched system) and should be more cost-effective. By time-sharing the tutorial communication function with other uses, one avoids development of a separate dedicated microwave system (and associated maintenance). The current implementation of blackboard-by-wire is described and is shown to be sufficiently effective to serve as a communication system until Picturephone can be economically added. The author's experience with blackboard-by-wire is described, along with a survey of past uses. Costs are analyzed, showing that the present system requires about $5000 for equipment purchase (for one \"sender\" and one \"receiver\") and $20 to $40 per hour for transmission costs. The flexibility and low cost of the current implementation make it an easy \"entry point,\" and it is compatible with later expansion to include Picturephone set."
"The construction of a spectrometer designed for instructional purposes is described. The component parts cost approximately $20. The resolution is better than 0.01 micron in the neighborhood of 1 micron. The use of the spectrometer for student instruction in optical properties of semiconductors is described, and a typical experimental transmission spectrum obtained with the spectrometer on a silicon sample is included."
"Enthusiastic motivation of college engineering freshmen and integration of freshmen into the engineering family are supplied by a new sequence of beginning engineering courses using elementary computer routines to illustrate otherwise abstract mathematical concepts. Methods employed in the sequence at the University of Nevada are described and examples of work accomplished by freshmen who have had no prior computer experience are given."
"A simple extension of elementary linear differential equation theory is presented that includes linear constant-coefficient difference equations. The main body of the paper is written in a manner suitable for undergraduate classroom use by the advanced first year or regular second year engineering/science student. Four examples of the theory are presented from such diverse subjects as probability, communication theory, electrical engineering, and botany."
"The New York University Graduate Center at Bell Telephone Laboratories, Inc., was in continuous operation for nine full years after its establishment in the spring of 1957. This report discusses the history preceding the creation of the Graduate Center, the nature of the program, the curriculum of studies, and the impact of the operation on the students, the faculty, and the two organizations. A total of 783 employees of Bell Laboratories earned master's degrees through studies undertaken at the Graduate Center."
"Fields within rectangular waveguides can be described completely without employing differential equations. Maxwell's equations are not used in this short development which, while presented at an elementary academic level, produces a high degree of visualization."
"Finding autocorrelation functions for stochastic processes can be a complex and frustrating problem for the student. In this short paper we present a systematic approach to this problem that should reduce, or at least compartmentalize, this complexity."
"There are several graphical means being used in the frequency domain to predict and adjust control system performance, two of which are the log-magnitude plot and the phase-angle plot. In teaching the former of these in undergraduate curricula, extensive use is made of straight-line approximations to the log magnitude, whereas no correspondingly simple approximation for phase angle has been made available. This paper offers an effective procedure for approximating the phase-angle plot by straight lines in much the same way that the log-magnitude plots are approximated."
"While the autodyne has been widely utilized for many years as a \"rotating amplifier,\" no simple analysis of the operation of this machine has appeared in the literature which is suitable for presentation at the undergraduate level. An analysis based on simple machine concepts is presented."
"There are surprisingly few graphs which are both regular (same degree of incidence at each node) and have regular duals. Because these graphs all can be arranged to appear as regular geometric solids, they are known, specifically, as Platonic bodies. While direct application of graph theoretical methods can be used to discover all the graphs, this paper shows how topological and electrical restrictions also can be used to find the Platonic bodies through graphs of resultant resistance networks."
"A majority of textbooks on antennas neglect to show the use of the dispersion diagram in explaining the properties of a helical antenna. This short paper shows that the region of operation of an axial-mode helical antenna can be easily located on the dispersion diagram. The close relationship between the dispersion diagram as evaluated by Klock and the theory of operation of the helical antenna given earlier by Kraus is also demonstrated."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Early man's first limitation was language; with the invention of writing, he became literacy-limited; with printing, he eventually became literature-limited as the amount of knowledge grew beyond his capacity to keep up with it. Now he can work his way out of the masses of paper that beset him only if he does not become information-retrieval-limited. Our conventional indexing tools are already overloaded, however, and we must provide new means if we are to avoid this final limitation, which eventually would make it more profitable to take a chance on duplicating research effort than to search existing literature. Centralized repositories are one answer, and better communications facilities are another, but only the surface of the problem has thus far been scratched."
"This work is the script of a comico-serious half-hour play with a cast of four. It exhibits all the classical blunders in the technical symposium presentation together with their simplest and most effective remedies. Bob, a harassed engineer who just built a nuclear reactor, describes it in a dry run in the presence of Bill, the villainous project engineer who gives him the wrong advice, and Stan and Tom, the editor and chief engineer who show him how to do it better. The playlet is followed by an open panel discussion."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"The Alphanumeric Photocomposition System uses digitally compressed and encoded data to generate, position, and phototypeset any printed material. System design techniques and specialized data management methods provide flexible and fast character output. The system control for the photoprinter, shown in Fig. 6 of the text, is discussed in some detail. Typical applications in text printing and engineering documentation demonstrate the operating flexibility of the equipment."
"Adanced-performance automated phototypesetting systems which have been introduced to the market recently fall into two general classifications-the electro-optical-mechanical and the all-electric configurations. Each category has its own advantages in performance, price, and application. This paper describes an advanced electro-optical-mechanical machine, now in field test, which has many important advantages over existing machines: speed, exceedingly high font capacity, very high production/cost ratio, and excellent quality of type production, reliability, and versatility. These advantages are gained by designing a built-in digital computer to perform many of the mechanical and optical functions ordinarily associated with existing machines. During the exposure of a line of type, no optical components are in motion and only one mechanical assembly is in relatively slow continuous rotary motion. (See Fig. 3 of the text for the system configuration). The extremely large font capacity makes the machine ideal for typesetting oriental languages and complex scientific publications."
"A new sofware/ hardware system for high-speed automatic page composition is described. One of the features of the system is a central processor comprising four central processing units shown in Fig. 2 of the text. The CPU internal organization, in combination with programs written in the processor's programming language, provides very high-speed page makeup. This paper describes the language and illustrates the operation of the system in composing, formatting and setting tabular data at high speed via an off-line photocomposer."
"A \" basic English\" to enable editors, writers, librarians, educators, and others to instruct computers to perform mechanical text processing conveniently has been defined (see Tables II to V for partial summary). It has been given the name SNAP (Stylized Natural Procedural) language for reference. A processor that executes procedures expressed in a subset of this language has worked for some months on several computers. It was used successfully last semester by 40 students with humanities background, in a graduate course in the School of Library Service of Columbia University, for elementary mechanized library and documentation tasks. The processor for the larger subset of the language shown in Tables II to V now works, and is being applied to several practical problems. The processor for the full language is being completed. A SNAP procedure consists of a succession of well-formed English sentences of a few simple types. Most of these begin with imperative verbs that are concerned with input and output operations, and with the manipulation of strings of characters, numbers, and arrays of strings and numbers. Conditional sentences begin with IF. Several constructions that extract and concatenate portions of strings and lists of strings are used in the objects of SNAP sentences. The SNAP processor is written (apart from specialized input-output routines) in FORTRAN IV. It deals directly with some 25 \"built-in\" verbs, and will allow the user to define further verbs by subroutines that are also written in SNAP."
"This paper discusses various strategies and techniques used for editing two-dimensional programs or text and for automatic type-composition of conventional mathematical expressions. The techniques may be used for input prepared on a typewriter that is on-line to a computer or that generates off-line machine-sensible documentation, such as punched paper tape. These techniques, with minor modification, may also be used with a keyboard-controlled cathode ray tube as an input device. Methods of driving a special typewriter in the preparation of composed text can be extended for photocomposition or for a high-speed printer with a special character set. The basic algorithms for the regeneration and internal storage of the two-dimensional document, input in an arbitrary character-by-character order, are discussed, as are other basic techniques for recognizing and parsing two-dimensional mathematical forms and symbols. Illustrations show applications to the automatic composition of mathematical tables and to computer-assisted typing of mathematical text using a newly-designed typewriter terminal (see Fig. 8 of text)."
"This paper describes the computer-aided publications editor \"EDIT\" now being implemented to run on the GE 635 under GECOS, and eventually under Multics at Bell Telephone Laboratories. [1] The publications editor is divided into three related sections: the editing, document-layout, and printing facilities. The editing section is similar to \"Typset\" [2] in CTSS at M.I.T. with added features. It is a context editor with the added ability to edit by line number, and to edit with audit (the user may see and correct his recent changes and recover from what may have been a disastrous mistake-see Fig. 2 of text). The most significant feature, however, is in the document layout. The layout facility is built upon a set of primitive requests. This set consists of requests for indentation, vertical spacing, margin control, justification, etc. The primitives can then be grouped to form more powerful requests. In the ability to group and the method of grouping lies the flexibility needed to produce different page layouts. The user may build a description from the primitives of what a paragraph, a heading, table of contents, etc., should look like in his document. This is a macro facility for document layout. In effect, a description of conventions to be used in laying out a documents, or class of documents, is placed in a file separate from the text (see Fig. 1 of text)."
"A study of the feasibility of applying an experimental dictionary and a digital computer to proofreading led to investigation of the nature of conversion errors and development of computer programs for correction of unorthographic machine-readable text. The correction programs were tested with a sample of unproofread technical abstracts with a large number of possible errors. The error-correction program has three levels: the first level corrects commonly misspelled words through watching with a stored dictionary; the second level treats common misspelling patterns not readily amenable to direct dictionary correction. Error patterns most probably associated with human operation of transcription devices, or with limitations or malfunctions of conversion equipment, are dealt with by the third level. Beyond the first level, the program can apply nine error-correction procedures. The general structure and organization of the program is illustrated in Fig. 1 of the text. Because selections of alternative spellings are combinatorial, the correction algorithms must test several hundred candidates per error, on the average. Hence a study explored system design characteristics to increase the efficiency of correction procedures."
"The FORMAT program is described as a first approximation to the formatting portion of a true general-purpose text processor. Fig. 1 of the text illustrates the input and output forms of text with FORMAT processing. The various test-processing services include assistance with production of the subject index."
"The SCRIPT commands of the IB CP67/ CMS system provide interactive creation and editing of manuscript text, and can format and output hard copies. The primary goal of SCRIPT was a convenient method within an on-line system to permit programmers to prepare and maintain system documents. The SCRIPT commands have, however, also been used extensively to prepare technical reports and papers of all kinds. The EDIT module creates and operates upon a file in secondary storage. Lines of text from the typewriter terminal are put into canonical form and added to or inserted in the file. Editing instructions can reference a line either by context or relative line number, and can change strings within the line to other strings, as well as retype, delete, or insert whole lines. The PRINT module formats the manuscript file and outputs it to either the typewriter or line printer. Lines are left and right justified by adding additional embedded blanks where necessary. A logical topology data structure correctly interprets overprinting characters. Format control lines may be inserted in the text to specify such additional features as heading lines, line length, page length, page numbering, centering, indentation, and double spacing. The design of a follow-on system with major changes in each of these areas is discussed (see Fig. 5 of the text)."
"It is likely that future operating information retrieval systems may be based on automatic information analysis methods instead of manual indexing, and on search procedures which allow the user to interact with the system during the search process. The effectiveness of the required analysis and search operations depends to some extent on the availability, in machine-readable form, of standardized information concerning the make-up and content of each stored document. An author-prepared standard manuscript documentation unit, furnished with each manuscript, and illustrated in Fig. 3 of the text, may simplify the infonnation retrieval and dissemination operations and improve their effectiveness. The design of such a documentation unit is covered and its use for indexing, classification, vocabulary normalization, searching, and retrieval is explained."
"This paper is a brief survey of the mechanization of bibliographic list production. A flow chart shows the methods used in processing document representations from various data bases (see Fig. 1 of the text). The ABACUS program package for producing combined acquisition lists for three science libraries from punched tape can also output a KWOT (keywords out of title) index on demand. The format of the document records, including ABACUS keys (see Table 1 of text), is discussed in detail. The paper also describes the error-detecting routines, and transformation of upper-case input into upper/lower-case output for producing a union list of periodicals. The paper discusses lack of standardization within the field and proposes ways to achieve interchangeability among document records. The ABACUS system is the result of cooperation between the Royal Institute of Technology and AB Atomenergi, Sweden."
"Various machine methods have been developed to assist editors in quality control of Chinese-English translations and to prepare improved glossaries for mathematical work. Included are techniques for encoding Chinese characters by a display scope and by a plotting table, and for using these devices as a ten-thousand character \"typewriter\" keyboard. Also, vector sets describing several thousand Chinese characters have been developed and are being used for printout employing a Stromberg-Carlson 4020 recorder. The system configuration is shown in Fig. 2 of the text. Methods of preparing concordances for past translations of Chinese mathematical terms, resolving ambiguities resulting from multiple meanings of characters through context analysis, and automatically locating such troublesome phrases by machine comparison of parallel English and Chinese versions of a complete volume of Acta Mathematica Sinica have been studied and carried out on a computer. Also, a major revision of a standard glossary of mathematical terms is being made using computer-generated output for printing."
"Where the computer is used to maintain master information files for inventory management or information retrieval it has become common practice to use the line printer to prepare camera copy for parts catalogs, stock lists, price lists, directories, indexes, technical abstracts, and like publications. When printed, the end result is in many cases a generally unsatisfactory product. Computer printout, because of the limitations of the line printer, usually increases the printed bulk of the publication. The increased bulk results in increased printing costs. High-speed cathode-ray tube phototypesetting machines can be used to photocompose the data in graphic arts quality. The reduction in bulk which can be realized by setting in type effects important savings in labor, materials, and distribution costs. Computer typesetting programs are used to reformat the data into acceptable input for the phototypesetter. Because of the many variations in typeset material the program must be modifiable from job to job by changing specifications or parameters. Conversion of existing computer data to photocomposition usually requires some programming. Publications selected for this method must recover the cost of conversion by savings in printing, binding, and distribution costs."
"The advent of ADP-controlled production of technical publications has provided many benefits in the form of costeffectiveness, efficiency, and accuracy. However, the chief problems encountered in such techniques historically have been the keypunch operation and the use of paper printouts as reproducible manuscripts. Keypunching requires the use of outside vendors, with the concomitant problems of cost, transportation, and the conspicuous absence of highly touted accuracies. In addition, the increasing usage of Government computer facilities has begun to present problems when a publication with a frequent revision cycle is involved. Also, the use of paper printouts as reproducible manuscripts increases printing costs because of the low character density inherent in high-speed printers. Taking stock of the foregoing problems, the Naval Ship Engineering Center sought some way to solve them. It needed to improve the data acquisition and management system used to publish the electronic equipment Field Change Identification Guide (FCIG) program. A data retrieval and composition system has been adopted to provide a fast-response capability by means of an on-line time-shared computer in which FCIG data are accessed by means of an operator terminal. The flow of input and output data associated with the field change program has become manageable and adapted to streamlined operation through use of the new system shown in Fig. 3 of the text."
"Previous improvements in type composition have not removed the danger that human or machine error would result in output that did not match the input in the form of the author's edited manuscript. The consequent need for \"verification\" of the output has resulted in high costs in both time and money. The new technology, which promises to produce whatever is on the input tape with extremely low probability of machine error, suggests that publishing practices dealing with composition may be ready for extensive changes. These changes, illustrated in Fig. 2 of the text, could lead to reduction in time by a factor of 6 or 7 and similar reductions in cost."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"The Administrative Terminal System for IBM System/360 (ATS/360) is a new time-shared documentation system. This on-line system helps solve problems in the preparation of engineering documents by the use of specially designed terminal commands for text material, and by a programming system to provide many document-processing functions. These include automatic page formatting with headings, footings, and page numbering, as well as text-modifying actions. A significant feature is the ease with which documents can be converted to machine-readable form at a typewriter terminal for further computer processing. Programming techniques used allow unrelated background programs to run concurrently with ATS/360, obviating the need for a dedicated computing system."
"One way to help control the growth of engineering and scientific literature and the associated problems of information retrieval is to start at the source-to seek simple but powerful ways of increasing the efficiency of papers during the writing. Some specific methods of structuring journal manuscripts are shown in which the original, important portions of the text and selected illustrations are deliberately expanded, while others are de-emphasized by having less space devoted to them. The new methods involve using a three-sentence abstract of special structural style and high information content; illustrating the most significant technical contribution by means of a prominent figure; and scaling the size of text sections according to relative importance."
"Although it is the \"tall end\" of the proposal cycle, production is the area in which schedule slippage and other problems are most keenly felt. Production people should, therefore, be in on the proposal from its inception to provide the guidance that will result in a quality product at minimum cost-neat, readable, completely understandable, and bearing the message that the company means to put across. Only through good proposal management can expensive alterations and unnecessary overtime be avoided."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"A compensated ionization chamber, the WX-5362, has been developed for use in the NERVA program as a neutron flux detector for reactor control. The chamber has been designed to withstand the extremes of radiation, temperature, shock and vibration associated with the NERVA reactor."
"Experiments are described in which the performance of a linear type detector circuit is compared with a mean square type detector circuit for Campbell measurements. The need for pulse overlap is demonstrated for the linear type detector which requires a minimum angular cutoff frequency, #x003C9;L, equal to the lowest desired pulse rate. Measurements with the two types of detector circuits in a high gamma background and measurement of gamma and neutron sensitivities indicate a gamma discrimination figure of merit of 5 R per hr./nv. Application of counting and Campbelling techniques to a single ten decade log channel is described along with an electronic combining circuit for producing a single continuous output of such a channel."
"A wide range neutron flux monitoring test channel based on counting and mean-square voltage techniques has been installed at the EBR-II. The measured responses to neutron flux are presented and compared to those predicted. Data taken while the reactor is on an essentially constant period during typical re-starts are shown. The gamma discrimination ratio for this system has been determined and is discussed."
"The eddy-current flowmeter seems well adapted to measurements in high-temperature liquid-metal systems, where deterioration of the properties of permanent magnets and other ferromagnetic parts or bearing problems may seriously degrade the performance of other types. It is shown analytically that velocity-profile errors and temperature errors can be minimized by selecting a suitable operating frequency."
"A previously described, permanent magnet (PM), in-core flowmeter for use in sodium cooled reactors has been fabricated and installed in the Argonne National Laboratory (ANL) Sodium Flowmeter Calibration Loop. The calibration test facility and procedures are described and a typical family of flowmeter calibration curves are presented. The measured sensitivity is compared to that theoretically predicted and the discrepancies are discussed. Long term performance of the flowmeter is discussed."
"High-temperature gas-cooled reactors (HTGRs) use a gaseous coolant for heat transfer between the nuclear core and two or more steam generators. Leakage of steam or water from the steam generators to the coolant would expose the nuclear core to water vapor. A moisture measuring system is required to determine the moisture content of the coolant gas in the range of 0.1 to 3000 volume parts per million (ppm). Another requirement is the rapid detection of large leaks resulting in 2000 ppm or more and the identification of the leaking steam generator, thus permitting isolation of the faulty coolant loop. An optical dewpoint detector has been developed that can be used either as a dewpoint monitor or as a dewpoint trip device. The response time of the device as a trip instrument is typically 1 sec in the dewpoint range of 27°F to 128°F (100 to 3000 ppm). As a dewpoint monitor, the mirror temperature can be changed at a rate of 1°F/sec, in the range of -87°F to +128°F (0.1 to 3000 ppm). The moisture detector head is designed to operate at the full coolant pressure of 700 psia. In the HTGR application, access to the device is difficult during reactor operation, and will be cumbersome at all times because of gamma radiation environment. Therefore, exhaustive testing of all detector head components, subassemblies, and materials selection from inorganic substances has been performed to reduce maintenance to a minimum."
"A method was developed and investigated for directly measuring the shutdown margin in a reactor operating at a subcritical steady state. Measurements were made on the Iowa State University UTR-10 reactor with conditions ranging from almost critical to fully shutdown. The method is based on the fact that the frequency dependent transfer function of the reactor is a measure of the response of the reactor to an input disturbance. The magnitude of the transfer function of a subcritical reactor depends on the frequency of the disturbance and the steady-state multiplication factor. Since the multiplication factor is a measure of the reactivity, the amplitude of the transfer function is a direct indication of the shutdown margin. A sinusoidal disturbance was introduced by means of an oscillator operating in the center of the core. The oscillator was operated at a fixed frequency of 10 cps in order to eliminate the frequency dependence. The fluctuation was measured by a BF3 detector located against the outside of the core opposite the oscillator. The signal emitted by the detector contained bombardment noise and instrument noise in addition to the desired information. The signal was passed through a band-pass filter and was then cross-correlated with a pure sine wave to obtain the transfer function. A plot of the transfer function vs. the multiplication factor was a smooth function from which the multiplication factor could be found with a confidence of ± 0.04% near critical and with a confidence of ± 0.17% in the fully shutdown condition."
"The possibility of applying Linear or Quadratic Programming to the problem of optimizing nuclear reactor fuel recycle, is investigated. It is demonstrated, that the methods mentioned, may be applied successfully to a simplified model of a nuclear reactor. An appropriate representation of the fuel recycle as a feedback control system is proposed. An iterative algorithm to establish the refueling times, which are unknown a priori, is formulated and implemented to some specific examples. The convergence of the algorithm, proposed in this paper, has been established numerically."
"Recent developments in the control of nuclear propulsion reactors are discussed. Analog simulation studies of engine performance have emphasized: (1) the use of hydrogen propellant moderating qualities for reactor power control, instead of neutron absorption in the control drums, and (2) the use of reactor temperature as the power reference, instead of neutron density. The concept of inherent control based on these two factors results in a smoother control function and in a simple and reliable control system. +Senior Scientist, Douglas Aircraft Co., Santa Monica, California 90406."
"The fast neutron hodoscope used at TREAT reactor for fuel meltdown studies has been improved to permit count rates above 106/sec in each channel. Also a digital readout system, based on integrated circuit scalers, has been introduced. Peak instantaneous data rate capability, now about 107/sec, can be expanded to 109/sec."
"This report describes a feasibility experiment for a fully automatic operation of Hitachi Training Reactor, emploving an digital computer control system. The system consists of a small control computer (2K words), an input-output peripherals, 3 BF3 counters and a countrol rod mechanism driven by a pulse motor."
"A conference held five years ago this month served, among other things, to introduce the notion to a substantial representation from the community of experimental nuclear physicists that a stored program computer could be used as a powerful, flexible tool for extending the scope of, as well as for aiding in the detailed execution of their experimental programs. The appreciation of the possibilities which were raised were colored by a simultaneous apprehension. The physicists worried about how extensive an effort they would have to make, how intimately they would have to be involved in order to use a computer on-line to an experiment. In short - who was going to write the programs? The answer was, unfortunately, not long in coming - they were. The potential gains for some classes of users were such that they did not wish to leave the restricted world of wired-program analyzers which, after all, were sufficient unto their needs. For others, however, the ends justified the means of the task. This latter group set about creating the programs and, in fact, the systems of programs that were necessary. This paper discusses some of the programming approaches which are in use or are under development for handling all or some features of experiment procedures. Because this conference has reports directly by several of the users, the emphasis here will be to review and compare rather than describe any in great detail."
"At Lawrence Radiation Laboratory small computers are used on-line with high-energy physics experiments. When the experimenter desires to estimate the relative value of the experimental data, the necessary analysis can only be performed on a large computer. Hence, the need arose for a fast two-way Data Link between one or more small computers and a large computer. The lack of interrupt facilities in the available large computer and the necessity of using twisted-pair telephone lines both posed unusual design problems. The main components of the Data Link are interfaces for the two computers, a buffering and error-correcting system, and a transceiver system using 4-mile-long telephone lines. A unique demand and response system both maintains synchronization and supports a highly accurate errorcorrection system. Control words communicate word count, transfer direction, etc., between the computer programs. Special high-reliability pulse-train signals transmit critical information, such as \"error\" and \"end of record\" between the interfaces. The data-link system provides a reliable and satisfactory solution in its present context to the problem of interfacing small data-gathering computers to a large computer for the analysis of a comparatively small quantity of data at infrequent intervals. Should this type of service become more popular in the future, the link can be readily modified to accept changes in the 6600 operating system (such as using a dedicated peripheral processors for all link data) or interfacing to a time-sharing computer devoted to link data handling."
"Experience in the design and operation of a previously reported (1) hardware-software computer-based on-line nxuclear physics data acquisition system is described. Major emphasis is placed upon the structure of the programming system, which embodies data acquisition, display, control,, and analysis facilities, and a supervisor capable of coordinating the parallel operation of multiple tasks. Basic concepts, rather than details, are stressed throughout."
"In using a small computer for accumulating a pulse height spectrum, it is often the case that the word length is too small to store the counts on a one-word-per-channel basis. The use of double precision to avoid this problem is wasteful of storage space. One way to avoid this waste is to store the differences between counts in two adjacent channels rather than the counts themselves. This can be achieved by adding 1 for each new count to the channel corresponding to that count and subtracting 1 from the next channel. The original spectrum can be recovered by summing the difference counts from one end of the storage array. Overflows can still occur when the original count distribution is increasing or decreasing rapidly (e.g., in the peaks of the spectrum), but these will, in general, not be too frequent and can be given special treatment as they occur. One method of doing this is to tag one bit of the word in the count array corresponding to the channel which has overflowed and using the remainder of the word to give the location of a double word which contains the full value of the count. Another method to avoid the use of double precision involves the use of a stochastic counting scheme for accumulating the spectrum."
"The Los Alamos Scientific Laboratory, operated by the University of California for the U. S. Atomic Energy Commission, continues to be active in developing, designing, and building nuclear reactors. The Nondestructive Testing Group has been instrumental in the support of these programs by providing services in the inspection of the reactor components. Nuclear counting systems are applied in many phases of the testing program. Radiation transmission measurements, utilizing many different radiation sources, are applied to the determination of material thickness, density, and composition. Betabackscatter techniques are used in the measurement of coating thickness for many coating and substrate materials. Radiation counting techniques are used for the determination of reactor element fuel loadings. For all of these systems, the digital count information must be related through the use of appropriate standards to the physical characteristics of the material under inspection. The calibration data obtained from the standards can be expressed by means of empirical equations of elementary form. With the advent of the relatively inexpensive programmable electronic desk calculators, the direct, on-line conversion, reduction, and display of the test data became possible. The nuclear counting systems used in the nondestructive testing program employ conventional digital counters and recorders. The primary counters are Beckman/Berkeley EPUT Meters, driving digital printers and/or piper-tape punch units. Wang Laboratories undertook the design and manufacture of an electronic calculating system capable of direct connection to the existing counting equipment."
"A system is described in which a PDP-8 computer collects data on-line from up to twenty high-resolution pulse height analyzers used in biomedical gamma spectroscopy counting. The computer takes data directly from the analog-to-digital converters and stores it unsorted on IBM magnetic tape. These tapes are sorted and analyzed off-line on larger computers. An oscilloscope provides two modes of display of the spectral data being collected. Through another interface, the PDP-8 accepts complete spectra dumped from the memories of other analyzers operating off-line."
"The use of a time-shared computer with specially designed codes in an analytical program employing liquid scintillation spectrometers with card, paper tape, and magnetic tape output substantially reduces the effort required to process large numbers of low level, beta-emitting samples. Automatic data collection and use of the computer by noncomputer trained users is the emphasis of this system. Features include raw data validity checks, calculation of calibration and quench curves, total sample errors, data sorting, half-life corrections, CRT graphical output, and computer-independent input formats. The methods are generally applicable to other general purpose computers using Fortran IV whether time shared or not."
"A true gamma-radiation spectrometer is described which utilizes a standard 3- by 3-in. diam NaI(Tl) scintillation detector and outputs the gamma spectrum (in photons MeV-1 cm-2 sec-1) with all spurious peaks and tails corrected. A small digital computer is utilized to accumulate the pulse-height distribution and simultaneously perform a digital filtering operation in real time."
"For detection of charged particles from 1 to 60 MeV, three solid state detectors are utilized in a dE/dx telescope configuration. Signals are summed digitally and displayed on a 2-dimensional \"flicker box\" and transmitted off-line to a larger computer for \"tail corrections\", dead layer corrections, and final analysis. Time-of-flight is utilized for nonpenetrating particles. p, D, T, 3He, α etc. can be distinguished from 1 to 60 MeV with ~180 keV system energy resolution."
"A system for real time pulse height analysis of γ ray spectra recorded on magnetic tape in an aircraft is described. A pulse height to width converter is used to record pulses, whose original amplitudes are proportional to the γ ray energies, on magnetic tape. The stored pulse widths are subsequently fed into a Digital Equipment Corporation PDP-9 computer via an interface which digitizes the widths using high speed integrated circuit counting logic."
"The logical, or system, organization of a buffered data storage system designed expressly for non-stationary randomly arriving data is described. The system makes use of multiple levels of buffering. Simulation on a digital computer is used as a design technique. The system was evaluated for an input arrival distribution expected from Columbia University's Nevis Neutron Velocity Spectrometer. It was shown that the amount of high speed memory required can be reduced by factors of 100, or more, when compared with more conventional single level buffer storage systems."
"A system is described that can decrease the number of scalers required in a magnetostrictive spark-chamber readout system by a factor of four. Information from magnetostrictive sensors is impressed upon six magnetostrictive delay lines and digitized in sequence by six sets of scalers. In addition, an oscilloscope display is produced which correlates the delayed time-domain information with its digitized form."
"In order to analyze the increasing quantity of new experimental neutron cross section data from the present, highly automated, experimental facilities, new automated evaluation techniques are being developed. The extent to which automation has already affected the evaluation process has been previously described.(l) However, an unacceptable amount of manual effort is still required to produce an evaluated neutron cross section library for an isotope or element for use in nuclear reactor physics design. Hence, the greater portion of any evaluation is concerned with purely mechanical operations, leaving insufficient time for extensive evaluation of the available data and causing long delays between the generation of new data and its availability for use in reactor design studies."
"We discuss associative memory in the analysis of two-dimensional data where the variables are transformed before data accumulation. Local linear transforms reduce the number of associative locations required, while a two-dimensional search scheme shortens the search among the fewer locations. Application of these methods results in some saving of memory space and an appreciable saving in execution time."
"The methods of data reduction used in processing the positron annihilation lifetime spectra are thoroughly discussed. For curves which are believed to represent a multi-exponential scheme the methods of least squares is still found to be the most useful one. Its convergence properties, the confidence level of its result and the effect of instrument noise to the result are also discussed. The method of Fourier transforms can also provide reasonable answers, however, its precision is quite limited. For curves which do not appear as multi-exponentials the calculation of time dependent annihilation rate λ(t) is one of the simplest methods. A direct calculation of energy dependent annihilation rate λ(E), or cross section, in general, is not possible since diffusion approximation is not always applicable and our knowledge in the scattering process is quite limited. However, in inert gases, without strong annihilation, a fair estimate of λ(E) may be obtained after certain approximations are made."
"A low energy proton and electron electrostatic analyzer has been built for use in trapped particle measurements aboard Air Force satellites. This paper describes the basic design features of the instrument as well as the calibration of the plate assembly for particle transmission, of the magnetic electron multiplier sensor for relative efficiency to electrons and protons of various energies and the final calibration of the assembled instrument utilizing electron and proton guns and distributed radioactive sources."
"A 180°-focussing magnetic analyzer for OV1-13 is described. It has an array of eight solid-state detectors in the focal plane and uses upper level discrimination to reject analysis of penetrating protons. Fields of view vary from 16° × 9° (Channel 1) to 4° × 9° (Channel 8), and energy bin-widths from 26% to 13%, Channel 2 to 8. A similar instrument is giving good data from OV1-9."
"A scintillation spectrometer for OV1-13 is described. Scintillation pulses are accepted for differential analysis only if in coincidence with appropriate energy depositions within an associated dE/dx detector. This allows accurate measurement of electrons in the presence of high intensities of hard protons. The dE/dx detector and additional logic reduce spectrometer sensitivity by 80%, and broaden resolution to 50%. The geometrical factor is 1.0 × 10-2 cm2-ster."
"Solid-state proton spectrometers for OV1-13 are described. Pulses from totally-depleted transmission detectors are accepted for differential analysis only if unaccompanied by pulses in a back-up detector. Geometrical factors are 0.5 × 10-2 cm2 ster and 1.0 × 10-2 cm2-ster respectively for the lower and higher range instruments; energy bin-widths are approximately 20%. Similar instruments are giving good data from OV1-9."
"A range-energy proton spectrometer for OV1-13 is described. It uses a stack of solid-state detectors and absorbers plus a dE/dx detector. Logic identifies the last detector in sequence to record a signal, but only if the dE/dx signal is appropriate. The geometrical factor is 1.0 × 10-2 cm2-ster; energy bin-widths are approximately 35%."
"In order to study unambiguously the X-ray spectra from single celestial X-ray sources located amid several closely spaced sources, some form of angular collimation must be used on an X-ray telescope flown at balloon altitudes or higher. A popular design featuring high background rejection consists of closely spaced holes drilled through a block of scintillator material. The present paper explores several general cross-sectional geometries for these holes, presenting features in mathematical and graphical form such as transmission efficiency; angular resolution; residual detector area after collimation; and optimum spacing between detector and collimator. The influence of the hole shape on collimator \"leakage\" and on signal to background ratio is discussed. Collimator geometries to fulfill specific needs are deduced from the curves. A symmetric \"hourglass\" hole shape is shown to provide most nearly an optimum compromise of desirable features."
"A cosmic ray instrument for NASA's OGO-F spacecraft is described. The experiment consists of three charged particle detector systems which are designed to measure the spectra and chemical composition of galactic and solar cosmic rays over selected energy intervals. Two of the detector systems, the 㥎-Range and 㥎-Čerenkov telescopes, will measure the galactic flux and smaller solar flare fluxes, while a third detector system, the Flare telescope, will measure larger fluxes The three telescopes identify particle energy and type by various techniques. Energy loss and range, which provide the identification of protons (1 to 300 MeV), alpha particles (4 to 1200 MeV) and electrons (1 to 500 MeV), are measured in a stack of silicon solid state detectors and tungsten absorbers in the ΔE-Range telescope, while the identification of protons (350 to 1000 MeV), alpha particles (1400 to 4000 MeV) an, nuclei through oxygen is provided in the ΔE-Čerenkov telescope by energy loss measurements in silicon solid state detectors and a velocity measurement in a quartz & 㥎renkov radiator. The Flare telescope employs a double energy loss measurement in silicon detectors for the identification of protons (17 to 100 MeV) and alpha particles (70 to 400 MeV). The design of the instrument is optimized for maximum use of the available data rate with minimum weight, volume and power requirements."
"The Douglas OGO-F Low Energy Solar Cosmic Ray Experiment measures the differential energy spectrum of protons (5 MeV to 80 MeV) and alphas (18 MeV to 160 MeV) using two double-diffused, totally depleted silicon diodes. The pulse amplitude discrimination syster, the data multiplexing scheme and the in-flight calibrator are discussed."
"Preliminary tests indicate that a suitable electronics subsystem for a large-area, high-resolution gamma-ray spectrometer is well within the present state-of-the-art. This subsystem can be made to operate with sufficient precision within the temperature, power, weight and volume constraints typical for space instruments."
"A high-speed, high-resolution spectrometer system has been designed for the detection and analysis of low-energy x-rays from a spinning rocket. The system enjoyed a highly successful flight in the spring of 1967 and another flight is currently scheduled for the fall of 1967. The system was comprised of four large-area beryllium-window proportional counters, an analog pulse-height-to-time converter, a digital data assembler and a complete PCM multiplexer. The system was capable of analyzing x-ray events at average input rates in excess of 50,000 events per second. The pulse-height-to-time converter, in conjunction with a portion of the digital data assembler, formed a 64-channel pulse-height analyzer and provided an energy resolution of 0.5 keV per channel over the 3-30 keV energy range of the detectors. The data assembler, using a non-linear, lump digital decoding technique, compiled and stored a complete spectrum on board the rocket. Channel address accumulators were completely buffered so that while one spectrum was being time multiplexed to telemetry, another was being accumulated. This technique gives rise to very short dead-time periods and enabled the detector and pulse-height converter to operate in random-access fashion at high input rates. The PCM multiplexer portion of the system time multiplexed all of the spectral information, along with absolute rate data, and applicable timing and I.D. information into a serial Non-Return-to-Zero-Level (NRZL) formatted binary output with sufficient drive to directly modulate an FM transmitter. The multiplexer operated from a single, stable 20 kHz oscillator."
"A single electrostatic analyzing instrument has been developed that allows multiple channel energy analysis for both protons and electrons. Circuitry for this instrument maximizes temporal resolution with telemetry bandwidths over a 5 decade count rate range. The instrument measures energies of 1 to 20 keV in 5 energy intervals at count rates of 1 to 105 counts/sec with a maximum temporal resolution of 10-2 seconds."
"The unique features of this instrument are the following: 1. The charged particle shield (NE 102) uses only two P. M. tubes. 2. The 4π charged particle shield encloses completely the neutron-gamma detector, all P. M. tubes and associated sensor electronics. 3. The pulse shape discriminator (P. S. D.) is passive and miniature, with \"M\" > 3.1 at the Co60 Compton edge. 4. The separate spectra of neutrons (1 < En < 20 Mev) and gammas (1 < E< < 7 Mev) are extracted. 5. The I. F. C. (4% resolution) with P. S. D. on NaI(Tl & Am241) is also displayed with (4). 6. The quality of data is checked by parity bits, and data are transmitted by a parallel, redundant FM-FM TM system."
"Shaping is considered with respect to minimizing the random errors with respect to detector pulse measurements. Some properties of time variant and invariant linear networks are considered. It is shown that the weighting function characterizes both time variant and invariant networks with respect to the determination of the errors. The errors are classified according to their origin and character. Errors due to noise, pile up and base line shift are considered. Equations for their variances and average values are derived using the weighting function and the statistical properties of random impulses. The weighting function characteristics, such as shape and time scale, are considered with respect to the resulting errors The characteristic of the weighting function, required to minimize or decrease particular errors are discussed. Particular attention has been given to base line error reduction."
"A novel device for low-noise amplification-the germanium junction field-effect transistor (JFET)--is introduced. The properties of germanium and silicon at cryogenic temperatures are summarized. Based on the conclusions of this summary, a theoretical comparison between germanium and silicon JFET's is made, followed by a comparison of commercially available JFET's from both materials. A low-noise preamplifier featuring liquid-helium-cooled germanium JFET's was built and operated with semiconductor radiation detectors. Pulse generator resolution of the preamplifier for zero external capacitance is 0.28 keV FWHM (Ge) with a slope of 0.018 keV/pF. Actual resolution obtained with the silicon detector for low-energy x rays is 0.37 keV."
"A new method of ADC which reduces noise by the measurement of the signal area is described. The area is evaluated by an integrator which compares it to a number of elementary charges, this number being the digital value proportional to the energy of the detected particle. Further improvements of the method are indicated."
"The problem of pulse height spectral distortion created by pile-up effects of randomly distributed events in nuclear spectrometry systems has become extremely important since the advent of the use of germanium detectors in gamma-ray spectrometry. The study of this problem is complicated by the fact that the pulse height response of the detector to incident gamma-rays contains a photopeak and a Compton continuum, which represents a broad spectrum of pulse heights. Analysis of spectrum distortion must involve the complicated separation of all possible combinations of the involved pulse heights and pulse period overlap. Indeed, almost all sources of signals which might be used for such a study as this are either non-random or have a broad distribution of pulse heights. There is one notable exception, which is the charged particle source and semiconductor detector combination, e.g., an alpha source and a surface barrier diode in vacuum; however, sources of sufficient strength to provide the high count rates necessary for definitive testing are difficult to handle and may present a personnel hazard. Presented here is a method of assembly, from standard laboratory equipment, of a monoenergetic, random time-interval, pulse generator with variable pulse height and count rate for the study of count rate spectral distortion in nuclear electronics. The necessary equipment consists of a noise source, a discriminator, a time-to-pulse-height converter (non-shaping type), and a section of coaxial cable for delay."
"Common causes of resolution degradation are discussed for low and high count rates. Previous works have presented signal/noise versus shaping networks for Johnson noise and 1/f2 noise. Equations are derived here to include l/f noise, which is found to be significant. Results are presented for peak-height change versus input rise time for different shaping networks. For high count rates, the need for an amplifierwithlongtime constants and the use of a baseline restorer are discussed. A restorer and deadtime gating circuits are presented, along with experimental results."
"The exploitation of the apparent i,v characteristic of a tunnel diode when driven into high frequency oscillations was described and theoretically analyzed in three preceding papers. There was demonstrated the possibility of obtaining an accurate machine time associated to incoming events. The present paper describes a time to pulse-height converter based on the use of circuits (so-called bitripoles) exploiting this apparent characteristic. Some new elaborations of the basic circuit are described and first results are analyzed. A FWHM resolution of 77 ps with two XP1020 photomultiplier tubes driven by a hydrogen lamp was obtained. It seems that this figure can be decreased."
"A pulsed power supply has been developed which is suitable for powering electroluminescent lamps at frequencies up to 5 kHz. A distribution system for driving 90 or more lamps simultaneously and a programmed data-lamp array utilizing this power supply are also described."
"The theoretical equations for transistorized current-feedback dc electrometers have been developed and utilized for the design and evaluation of three electrometers containing (1) a bipolar transistor, (2) a junction field-effect transistor (JFET), and (3) a metal-oxide-semiconductor field-effect transistor (MOSFET) in the input stage. Each electrometer was evaluated in terms of input and output impedance, gain-bandwidth, drift characteristics, and output noise power spectra. For the experimental amplifiers, the measured minimum amplifiable dc input current was approximately 8 × 10-14 amp for the bipolar transistor electrometer, 4 × 10-15 amp for the JFET electrometer, and 5 × 10-16 amp for the MOSFET electrometer. Consultant, Dept. of Elec. Engr., Univ. of Tennessee, Knoxville, Tenn."
"Radar modulator techniques, which make use of pulse-forming networks (PFN), were used to develop a magnet pulser which supplies 500-amp current pulses to a 20-turn tape-wound coil for generating a pulsed, high magnetic field. Uniform fields of more than 5 kilogauss were generated with pulse widths of 6 to 14 μsec at repetition rates up to 1200 Hz. New cooling techniques for the load coil and the pulser components are being developed so that higher fields at higher repetition rates can be generated."
"A surface barrier diode for position determination of low energy electrons was recently fabricated relying heavily on past experience. This diode was fabricated on a 1 \"diameter, . 006 \" thick 2000 ~ -cm resistivity N type silicon slice with the active sensor area occupying about 1/2\" by 1/2\" of the area in the middle of the wafer. The sensitive front side of the unit consisted of a gold plated p-type inversion layer while the reverse side had a contact array on it providing position readout. This array was made up of two perpendicular sets of parallel evaporated conductors mutually isolated from each other. A unit having 32 readout lines in each of the X and Y directions was completed and it was shown that a sensor with 64 lines in each of the above directions can also be made with the technique currently in use. The units were tested using an electron gun and an accelerating potential providing up to 50 KV. The motion of the sample behind a fixed baffle with a pinhole in it provided the positioning of the electron beam onto the sample. When testing the units having 32 lines on their backs, it was found that only about 10% of the lines were responding to the electron beam. The internal noise of the rest of the channels masked the increase in counts when the beam was activating them."
"A system was needed for transmitting gamma-ray pulse-height information from high altitude to earth. In the system designed, a pulse-height analyzer accepts pulses from gamma-ray detectors, determines their amplitude, and transmits this information in serial form on an event-by event basis via telemetry to a ground station where it is stored on magnetic tape and in the memory of a modified multichannel analyzer. This provides a real-time visual observation of the data as it is accumulated, in addition to facilitating preflight calibration. The on-board analyzer was successfully flown at an altitude of 20 miles for 4 hours, and the telemetry translator was used to decode the magnetic tape recordings."
"The performance characteristics presented in this paper are: (1) the characteristics of gamma photon imaging with the Digital Autofluoroscope, (2) the resolution and efficiency of multihole and pinhole collimators, (3) a quantitative discussion of the image distortion inherent in pinhole collimators and of the penetration of the pinhole edges. In this discussion, it is pointed out that the various correction modes available, such as normalization of stored data and background suppression, are a means of removing the image distortion evident with pinhole collimators and of restoring image quality loss due to penetration of septa and pinhole edges. Also discussed is the use of the pinhole collimator as a means of magnifying small organs and minifying large ones."
"Solid state detectors, especially Ge(Li) drifted diodes, have given the biologist a new and powerful tool for determining the identity of radioactive species in biological samples. Often these samples contain very low quantities of radioactivity in a complex mixture of radionuclides. High resolution, maximum counting efficiency, suppression of background and Compton radiation and enhancement of photopeaks are required. A series of gamma-ray spectrometers has been developed to assay radionuclides in biological materials. These spectrometers have incorporated features that facilitate achieving these requirements. Samples up to 8.5 cm in diameter and 2.5 cm thick are now routinely analyzed. A range of gamma and x-ray energies from a few kilovolts to 2.5 Mev can be analyzed. Since the probability becomes rather high above 1 Mev that the favored gamma interaction within the Ge(Li) detector will be a Compton event with the resultant photoelectron interfering with the spectrum below the initial gamma-ray energy, it is necessary to suppress this type of interaction. This has been achieved by surrounding the Ge(Li) detectors with a scintillator for detecting scattered Compton photons. A method is described to enhance both anticoincidence and coincidence events. Both NaI(Tl) and plastic scintillators are used as anticoincidence shields. The optimum anticoincidence shield may not be a simple annulus. Some arguments and preliminary results are given to show the advantages of totally surrounding the Ge(Li) with a scintillator for 4 π Compton suppression. The Compton shields vary from 9 inches in diameter for NaI(Tl) to 30 inches for plastic."
"An aircraft dosimetry system containing a permanently sealed-off linear energy transfer (LET) spectrometer, tissue equivalent ionization chamber (TEIC) and Geiger-Mueller counter (GMC), was designed, fabricated, and partially evaluated. The integrating TEIC covers the dose rate range 0.2 mrads/h to 5 rads/h, the LET counter covers the range 0.2 -100 keV/μ, and the GMC operates up to 104 counts/sec. Data is presented in 13 channels, binary coded at 18 bits per channel, and stored in digital form on magnetic tape with a storage capability equal to a five-hour flight mission. The tape cartridge is removable for subsequent data reduction accomplished by conversion to standard IBM format by ground-based tape-to-tape converter. Dose and Quality Factor measurements were made for X-rays, gamma-rays, protons, and neutrons. Results for gamma-rays and reactor neutrons agree very well with BNL data for similar conditions. Four complete instruments are operational in the field. Acquisition of flight data is in progress and should be available for publication in the near future."
"Recent studies investigating the energy deposited by ionizing radiation in microscopic absorption sites have led to a program at Battelle-Northwest to develop a portable tissue equivalent proportional counter for use in mixed radiation fields. In the previous investigations, a 10 cm diameter spherical counter was used. This counter is very sensitive to mechanical shock due largely to a spiral grid surrounding the anode. The grid is necessary to produce uniform gas multiplication regardless of the location of ionizing events within the cavity. The wall thickness is sufficient to assure charged particle equilibrium when using the counter for gamma-rays or neutrons. The present development program is based on a much simpler and more rugged proportional counter. This device is 5 cm in diamter and uses a single 0.001 inch diameter stainless steel wire as the anode without a spiral grid. Uniform gas multiplication is obtained by field shaping electrodes near the end of the wires. The small counter is more stable and much less susceptible to mechanical shock. To simulate spherical absorption sites on the order of 1μ diameter, the counters must be operated at pressures of a few mm Hg of tissue-equivalent gas. This special gas is composed of nitrogen, methane, and carbon dioxide in percentages of 3.2%, 64.4% and 32.4%, respectively. With a gas pressure equivalent to a 2 micron absorption site, the count rate is 2,000 to 3,000 counts per millirad when exposed to 0.75 MeV monoenergetic neutrons."
"A fast 3He neutron spectrometer has been developed that is free of recoil spectrum effects. Positioning solid-state detectors outside the neutron beam at 90 degrees results in this advantage and avoids nuclear reactions in the detectors themselves. Two modes of operation are examined: In conjunction with a pulse height analyzer, and in a high-event-rate, current-signal regime. The spectrometer was used in the latter mode to measure the neutron spectrum produced by a nuclear explosive in the Los Alamos time-of-flight neutron cross-section measurements. Present address: Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute, Troy, New York"
"In view of a better knowledge of the effects which cause the observed time dispersions we have made a theoretical study on this subject. In the first part we calculate the shape of the charge and current pulses issued from the single photoelectric interaction of a gammna-ray with the atoms of a Ge(Li) detector. This shape depends on the interaction abscissa and on the range of the secondary electron. The influence of the latter is well seen on the shapes of the pulses presented. The distribution of risetime is deduced from this calculation. In the second part, we calculate the distribution of the time at which the signal crosses a threshold, by means of a suitable mathematical transformation (it is the time spectrum of a leading edge timing). Electronic noise is taken into account and the variations of the calculated distributions versus noise, threshold and range of secondary electrons are presented. Discussions about an improvement of the time resolution is included in this part and it is shown that a very simple filter can ameliorate the accuracy of the measurement. In the third part we describe the experimental set-up. The variations of time resolution versus detector bias voltage are presented. The variations of time resolution versus threshold are also shown and one of these curves is compared with the calculated one. Agreement is not perfect but can explain some irregularities of the experimental distributions."
"Four planar Ge(Li) detectors have been operated in an array, in parallel electrically, and connected to a single preamplifier. The total active volume is 28 cm3. The photopeak efficiency of the four detector array at 1.33 MeV is about 4.8 times greater than the efficiency of one 7 cm3 detector. The resolution is 2.90 keV FWHM at 1.33 MeV and 2.01 keV FWHM at 122 keV. Some misalignment of the individual detector photopeaks is observed, probably caused by contact resistance. A technique which allows alignment of the peaks is presented."
"The relative average energy per electron-hole pair ϵT/ϵ77°K has been measured over the temper ture range 10 to 170°K in four Ge(Li) detectors irradiated with 662 keV γ-rays. The change in apparent ϵ with temperature was small and, over the temperature range 25 to 170°K, varied between 1.0 and 2.2% for the four detectors - a much smaller variation than that reported by Emery and Rabson. *N.R.C. Post-doctoral Fellow, on leave from Japan Atomic Energy Research Institute."
"The reactions 16O(3He, p) 18F and 12C(3He, 4He) 11C enable measurements of very small amounts of oxygen and carbon in a matrix of high atomic number. The products are positron emitters with convenient half lives of 110 minutes and 20.4 minutes, respectively. Germanium samples of various qualities were analyzed for oxygen and carbon using this technique in an attempt to establish a correlation between the level of these contaminants and the performance of the material in detector applications. The contaminant levels observed were surprisingly high (about 10 ppm) and little or no correlation was observed. The authors feel that the matrix of most germanium acts as a reservoir of oxygen of which only a small portion exists in states that are intimately coupled with the germanium so as to affect driftability or infrared absorption. * Work done under the auspices of the Atmonic Energy Commission, Contract W-7405-ENG-36."
"Several surface treatments are described which change the I-V characteristics of lithium drifted germanium diodes. These treatments, applied after the final etch, have reduced the diode leakage current to < 10-9 A for fields of up to 600 V/mm. Treatments achieving this on several diodes are described."
"Evidence of the role played by high concentration of oxygen or vacancies in the driftability of lithium in the crystals is made by precipitation studies. The results obtained are confirmed by other experiments: minority carrier mobility, diffusion constant of lithium, and influence of copper. One of the most important problems in the fabrication of large Ge(Li) detectors is still the choice of the starting material. Indeed, crystals having similar resistivities, minority carrier lifetimes and dislocation densities do not show the same behaviour concerning the lithium and the carrier trapping effect. The latter has been recently studied by Sakai and Malm down to 4°K and is not considered here. But we have tried to understand why some crystals are \"non-driftable\". For this \"non-driftable\" material, Armantrout has found a reduced minority carrier mobility, at low temperature (77° K), compared to the value obtained for driftable germanium. This author has suggested that oxygen contained in germanium is responsible for this effect. Pell has related the level of the plateau reached in the lithium precipitation curve in silicon to the oxygen concentration in the crystal. From similar studies in germanium, Fox has also concluded that the driftability is related to the level of the final plateau which is a function of the oxygen concentration in the samples. Evidence was made to us in earlier work that oxygen was not the only factor playing a role in the non-driftability of lithium in some crystals."
"The measured response characteristics of lithium-drifted silicon radiation detectors at 295°K and 79°K are presented for protons with energies from 315 to 3.5 MeV; for positive pions with energies from 50.2 to 206 MeV; and for electrons with energies from 265 keV to 767.2 MeV. Analysis of the energy loss spectra confirms that the energy is being deposited by the protons and pions in the silicon purely through collision losses, whereas it appears that the silicon absorbs additional energy lost by the high energy electrons through interaction of the bremsstrahlung radiation in the depletion region. The charge collection efficiency determined by gamma rays is shown to agree with the charge collection efficiency determined by minimum ionizing particles. Nonlinear effects caused by unequal electron and hole trapping lengths and surface effects lead to reduced charge collection efficiencies for low energy electrons which do not completely penetrate the detector depletion region, in agreement with theory and with observations in the X-ray region. Apparent recombination effects also lead to reduced charge collection efficiencies at low fields or for protons with energies below about 100 MeV under constant bias conditions. The present data support the conclusion that the charge conversion factor ϵϵεεε at any one temperature is constant to within 1% for electrons, pions and protons over the entire energy span measured."
"Theoretical calculations showing the charge collection efficiencies of Ge(Li) and Si(Li) planar detectors as a function of trapping lengths and incident X-ray energies are presented. It is demonstrated that there should be an intrinsic energy dependence of the charge collection efficiency for radiation lengths comparable to the detector depletion depth. The nonlinear behavior is generally greater for unequal hole and electron trapping lengths. Experimental results confirm this in part, but surface effects appear to accentuate the effect. It is concluded that, neglecting surface effects, the nonlinearities should be eliminated if the radiation is incident in a direction perpendicular to the field. Highest charge collection efficiency, best resolution and linearity are obtained by injecting the photons through the detector side (perpendicular to the field) along a unique plane which is defined by the electron to hole trapping ratio."
"Nuclear collisions undergone by an ion in a detector introduce a lack of ionization called pulse height defect, the importance of which varies with energy and type of particles. This defect has been measured for He, N and Ne ions with energies below 150 keV impinging on a gold silicon surface barrier detector. The results are compared with Lindhard's and Haines's theories and are in good agreement. The energy loss of a charged particle in a medium occurs mainly by electronic and nuclear collisions, the relative importance of which depends on the velocity v and the average charge Z1 of the particle. In the case of protons or heavier ions with velocities such as v > v0 Z2/31 (v0 = e2/h), the energy is essentially lost by electronic collisions and the slowing down is well described by the relation of Bethe. For particles with v < v0 Z2/31, Bethe's theory of stopping by electronic collisions is no more valid, and, on the other hand, nuclear collisions become important and must be taken into account. Usually, the energy lost in the sensitive region of a detector is indirectly determined by measuring the number of free carriers created by the ionizing particle. This number is proportional to the part η(E0) of the particle energy E0 which is lost in electronic collisions. The other part ν(E0) lost through nuclear collisions, does not contribute to ionization. For electrons (or γ rays) the energy ν(E0) can generally be neglected."
"In order to predict the useful lifetime of semiconductor detectors which operate in the Earth's trapped radiation belts, the effects of damage by 50 keV, 200 keV, 600 keV and 1 MeV protons on silicon, surface-barrier, transmission detectors have been studied for fluences from 1010 to 1014 protons/cm2. Detector current, noise and capacitance increased with fluence with significant increases occurring after 1013 protons/cm2. Bias-voltage-dependent multiple peaking was observed with Am-241 alpha particles. The effects of damage by protons with these low energies are significantly reduced in transmission detectors if the protons enter the rear, aluminum contact rather than the front, gold contact."
"A high-speed photomultiplier using crossed electric and magnetic fields has been made with a useful cathode area 1 cm x 2 cm. The output pulse risetime is 300 pS and full width at half maximum is 500 pS. This is shown to be close to the theoretical limits for this type of tube. Gain is about 107 and output is on two 50-ohm coaxial connectors."
"The response of Bendix CEM 401 channel electron multipliers to a hot filament electron source and a 244Cm alpha source has been investigated. This investigation shows that a CEM operated in the saturated mode produces output pulses for alpha particles which are, on the average, about twice the height of those for single electrons. A series of pulse height distribution curves obtained with various alpha absorbers and electric field potentials between the source and CEM are presented to substantiate this conclusion."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Advertisement, IEEE."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"A number of methods for compressing binary data on board spacecraft are discussed. Five systems, ranging in complexity from the simple use of prescalers to a floating point system, are described. The systems are compared, assuming that an accumulated count must be read into an eight bit telemetry word. Maximum count, reading error and hardware complexity are examined for each system. General formulae are presented which allow the calculation of maximum count for each system assuming that N bit telemetry words are available. The effect of a larger telemetry word on the performance of some of the systems is examined."
"In the investigation of base and collector current as a function of the emitter-to-base voltage, previous studies have shown that neutroninduced base current has components originating in the emitter space charge region as well as the neutral base region. This study shows that while the low injection level neutron-induced base current is dominated by the space charge component, the high injection behavior appears to be controlled by recombination in the neutral base region. Additional experiments performed in special tetrode transistors and van der Pauw-type samples indicate that changes in collector current are dominated by recombination in the neutral base, while changes in base doping and mobility have only a secondary effect. These conclusions are reached from experiments on transistors with a ring emitter, on tetrode-type test transistors, and on special Hall-effect devices, and by a detailed analysis of the emission crowding characteristics of a \"ring-dot\" geometry device."
"Some useful techniques of evaluating the radiation-induced transient response of circuits employing capacitors by using transient circuit analysis programs are discussed. Analysis methods to relate the capacitor's radiation-induced current generator to the basic parameters, D(t), Kp, Kd, and τττd, using existing circuit analysis programs are given. An expression relating the change in voltage resulting from an absorbed dose for an arbitrary burst shape is also derived."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Advertisement, IEEE."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"A review is presented of recent developments in x-ray photon detectors and in the associated detector electronics. The first portion of the paper is devoted to a survey of the presently available physical inforrnation on the \"intrinsic\" resolution of silicon and germanium radiation detectors, proportional counters and NaI(Tl) scintillation crystals. Semiconductor detectors suitable for x-ray applications and low noise electronics are then analyzed in some detail. Discussions follow on scintillation detectors, proportional counters, and \"external\" photoelectric detectors. Recent spectral achievements and interesting applications are illustrated."
"The use of semiconductors as scintillation phosphors is discussed. Donoracceptor pair recombination is efficient but it is often slow. The presence of free carriers from high concentrations of electrically active defects causes concentration quenching probably by means of an Auger effect. One is led therefore to consider the use of semiconductors doped with \"isoelectronic traps\". Experiments are reported for CdS doped with tellurium and ZnTe doped with oxygen. Promising preliminary results have been obtained. For CdS:Te at room temperature using 5 MeV α particles pulse heights have been recorded 7 times greater than those provided by the scintillator Pilot B, and with a rise time of 300 ns. At 100°K the results are even better. An excellent linearity of response at 100°K was found for particles with energies between 7 keV and 5.2 MeV. In addition to detecting α, ß and γ particles, CdS:Te is also a good potential detector of thermal neutrons."
"Several image intensifier systems have been calibrated for gain and single electron detection efficiency. When these intensifiers are coupled to conventional microscopes the combined system provides sufficient light to allow photographic recording in short exposure times of certain biological systems that would ordinarily not be photographable or would require undesirably long exposure times. The photographs also provide quantitative information on the amount of light entering the microscope objective. Experiments are described in which an image intensifier microscope system has been used to study bioluminescence, providing data on the temporal and spatial distribution of light output in several organisms. Other experiments are described in which the location of weak radioactive tracers has been possible in short exposure times, using thin overlying scintillators to provide the necessary light. System requirements are discussed for the extension of this technique to X-ray studies and fluorescence microscopy."
"In spark operation, with short-circuit electronics having a triggering delay of ⩽ 40 ns and yielding a peak current of 15 amperes, the detector, which is filled with xenon (720Torr) and diethylamine (40 Torr) has a counting plateau equal to 4% of the mean operating voltage. The electronic short-circuit is more effective when diethylamine replaces methylal. It is shown that this vapour produces a delay in the triggering of the spark. The life is improved. Study of electron avalanches has shown that, in the case of detection of X-rays of a mean energy of 27 keV, the number of carriers which they contain may reach 108 and that the probability is then less than 10-4 for triggering sparks. These avalanches also make it possible to obtain completely proportional amplitude spectra of excellent resolution (9% for 27 keV). When the detector is used in avalanche operation, the light emitted by the latter enables an image of the X-ray emitting source to be recorded. The quantity of light emitted can be increased by increasing the number of carriers in the avalanche but at the risk of creating a spark. This risk is eliminated by a short-circuit system similar to that operating for spark conditions but with a triggering threshold corresponding to about 105 electrons. The possibility of using this detector for recording X-ray diffraction patterns on biological molecules is discussed."
"As part of a program to develop methods for detecting and measuring high energy gamma rays, produced for example by the bombardment of targets with particles in the GeV range, the behavior of a large NaI(Tl) crystal spectrometer is being explored using the facilities of the Stanford Linear Accelerator Center (SLAC). In the following paragraphs we indicate the results of our initial sutdies."
"The light output of the recently developed gas proportional scintillation counter - a gas scintillation counter with light multiplication produced by a cylindrical geometry electric field - is investigated for heavy gaseous media under alpha particle excitation with a 56 UVP phototube. The gases used are Xe, and Xe-Ar and Xe-N2 mixtures for a wide range of concentrations, at a total pressure of about 965 Torr. The light output of the Xe-Ar mixtures shifts towards the ultraviolet (λ ≲ 3250 Å) region as the electric field intensity increases. Xe-Ar mixtures with Xe concentrations ranging from about 1 to 10% give - with a p-quaterphenyl wavelength shifter - a light output more than two orders of magnitude larger than that of a CsI(T1) scintillator. In Xe-N2 mixtures - with wavelength shifter - nitrogen has a quenching effect. For the mixtures of noble gases the rise time of the secondary component of the light pulse is slow, typically 15 μs. Methane and nitrogen while having a quenching effect, reduce this rise time."
"A system has been designed which will permit the scanning of X-ray diffraction patterns and the direct reading in of the digitized intensities of X-ray diffraction spots into a computer. The system makes use of two image intensifiers and a slow-scan television camera in tandem."
"Luminescent rare earth compounds are receiving renewed attention as a result of their successful application as phosphors for color television and lighting and as crystals for solid state lasers. The compounds of practical interest are hardy materials, frequently simple or complex oxides in which the rare earth activator occurs in the trivalent state. We report here the results of a partially completed survey of electron- and x-ray-stimulated luminescence of the rare earths in selected oxide hosts, on the basis of which it is possible to draw preliminary conclusions regarding the suitability of such materials for scintillation and other radiation detection and measurement applications. The luminescent compounds fall into two categories. Materials of the first category exhibit the sharp line spectra characteristic of transitions within the 4f electron shell. Efficiencies of materials in this category are high but decay times range from microseconds to milliseconds. As a result, their greatest utility would seem to lie in imaging and energy conversion applications. Materials of the second category exhibit broad-band spectra. These spectra arise from either 5d to 4f transitions of the activator ions or from emission of the host itself. Decay times fall in the range from tens of nanoseconds to microseconds. Consequently, these materials have the greatest potential for scintillation counting application. The best materials from each of the classes are discussed."
"The variation of light intensity with time following excitation by gamma rays has been measured for toluene solutions of quaterphenyl, quinquiphenyl, and sexiphenyl compounds whose solubilities were enhanced by substitution of alkyl groups. The decay curves, measured by use of a light-intensity-sampling technique, were analyzed to yield the mean lives τ1 for energy transfer from solvent to solute, τ2 for decay of the fast component (from the singlet state), and τ3 for decay of the slower component (probably from excimers). Preliminary estimates of τ2 for quaterphenyl, quinquiphenyl, and sexiphenyl are 1.27, 1.22, and 1.02 nsec, respectively. As expected,τ1 appears to vary inversely with solute concentration, and at the highest concentration of quaterphenyl in toluene (~ 65 g/liter, y = 1.12 × 10-2) was < 0.1 nsec. At this concentration, the amount of light in the slower component was only about 1/6 of the total light. This indicates that formation of excimers is inhibited. In addition, the photoelectrons produced in an RCA-8575 photomultiplier per keV of energy lost in the scintillator was measured to be 2.1 for quaterphenyl, 2.2 for quinquiphenyl, and 1.9 for sexiphenyl solutions. The improvement in efficiency and speed is reflected in a corresponding improvement in the time resolution achievable with these scintillators. For a 300-keV energy loss in the quaterphenyl solution, the FWHM was 0.20 nsec and the effective T1 /2 was 0.035 nsec."
"The time dependence of the light following excitation by gamma rays and neutrons was measured for stilbene and for the liquids NE-213, NE-213M, and NE-218.+ In addition, the number of photoelectrons produced at the cathode of an RCA-8575 photomultiplier per keV energy loss in the scintillator has been determined for each of these scintillators. A straightforward technique for pulse-shape discrimination is described; it consists in measuring the time difference between the start and the instant at which the integrated photomultiplier pulse reaches a specified fraction of its final amplitude. From the measured scintillation decay, the probability distribution of these rise times has been calculated for different fractions and for different photon and neutron energies on the assumption of Poisson statistics. These calculated distributions are in agreement with the experimental results obtained with the above-mentioned technique. The pulse-shape discriminating system is very stable and will accept 80% of the neutrons at 350 keV and only approximately 1% of the gamma rays producing scintillations with equal integrated light."
"Under high energy excitation, organic molecules are generally excited to electronic states above the first excited state. Since, at not too high solute concentrations, energy transfer in organic liquid scintillators occurs via the first excited electronic state, the efficiency of degradation to this state affects the overall light output. Experimental results for a number of systems, at temperatures from 20°C to 24°C are reported. It was found that the efficiency of degradation to the first excited state generally decreases with increasing temperature, with some variation among the solvents tested. It was found that; the greater the efficiency of degradation to the first excited state at 20°C, the less this efficiency varies with temperature."
"The emission and decay of a number of benzene derivatives in the liquid phase, excited by electron impact, are characteristic of singlet state excimers."
"The directional anisotropy in the scintillation response of an anthracene crystal to heavy charged particles was investigated. Energetic carbon and hydrogen ions were produced internally by scattering fast neutrons from the constituent nuclei. By use of a two detector coincidence system, the scintillations due to monoenergetic ions recoiling in a particular direction were selected and analyzed. The energies of the ions ranged from 2 to 3.5 MeV for the carbon recoils and from .9 to 7.3 MeV for the hydrogen recoils. Even though there was a wide variation in the average specific energy loss of the heavy charged particles considered, the magnitude of the anisotropy only varied between 39% for the carbon recoils and 20% for the 7.3 MeV hydrogen recoils. The measured hydrogen ion response in a particular direction as a function of energy was found to be approximately described by the formula suggested by Birks, dL/dE = (1 + kBdE/dx)-1, with kB being directionally dependent. The directional carbon ion response appeared to be a linear function of energy over the energy range investigated."
"A thick radiator neutron spectrometer has been constructed in which protons recoiling forward in the stilbene escape from the crystal and are detected in a silicon surface barrier counter. The coincident pulses from the two counters are recorded using a two-parameter analyzer. The instrument has been used to investigate (1) the response of stilbene to protons originating within the scintillator and (2) the behavior of the pulse shape discrimination as a function of the energy deposited in the stilbene crystal. The response function, which is required for the analysis of the neutron spectra, is compared with one obtained for protons incident externally on the same crystal. Small differences between the two response functions are observed and analyzed. Concerning the behavior of the pulse shape discrimination between protons and electrons it is found that, for internally generated protons, the ability to separate protons from electrons worsens as the energy deposited in the scintillator decreases. This contrasts with the behavior for protons which stop in the scintillator. The results support the hypothesis that the fast component of the pulse decreases with increasing stopping power whereas the slow component depends primarily on the energy lost. The results are analyzed and may be interpreted with certain assumptions to give the ratio of the fast and slow scintillation components."
"The peak dose rate for which light output is linearly proportional to incident radiation intensity was measured by bombarding 80-mil-thick samples of NE 102 and MEL 150C scintillators with 12-MeV electrons from the EG&G/AEC linear accelerator. To obtain the equivalent gamma dose rate, the sensitivity of the scintillator-photodiode detector used in this work was measured with a calibrated Co60 source. Nonlinear behavior was observed for excitation pulse widths between six nanoseconds and 0.5 microseconds. Analysis of the detector signals indicates that nonlinearity is a function of total dose as well as dose rate. Thus for an excitation pulse width of 0.5 microseconds, scintillator output was found to be linear at the start of the burst, but showed marked nonlinearity by the end of the pulse. The data also indicate that if the dose rate drops below the threshold value after a scintillator is driven into nonlinear operation, the scintillator will continue to behave nonlinearily for some time. The decay time associated with recovery from nonlinearity is greater than 0.5 microsecond. Data are presented, showing the average dose rate required to produce 5% and 10% nonlinear behavior as a function of exposure time. As a typical case, 10% nonlinear behavior for NE 102 results from an average dose rate of 6.5 × 1011 R/sec for an exposure time of 10 nanoseconds."
"A scintillator system consisting of a thin (5,000 Å - 15,000 Å) CsI(Tl) layer evaporated onto a plastic scintillator (NE-102) has been developed for the purpose of distinguishing low energy protons from electrons and measuring the energy of each species. Evaporations in a high vacuum (10-8 Torr) produced layers of CsI(Tl) that scintillate with an efficiency comparable to optimally doped bulk material, If the CsI(Tl) layer thickness is 15,000 Å, it stops protons with energies below 170 keV and electrons with energies below 18 keV. Thus, protons with energies between about 25 and 250 keV can be distinguished from electrons with energies above 18 keV by examining the shape of the light pulse generated in the dual scintillator. Results obtained with protons and electron beams will be presented."
"The scintillation characteristics of thin vacuum-deposited layers of NaI (Tl) and CsI (Tl) were investigated. Scintillation layers with thicknesses ranging from 0.2 to 20 mg/cm2 were evaluated as detectors with 6- and 22-keV x rays. In this energy region they were found to be comparable in performance to the thicker, commercially available NaI (Tl) and CsI (Tl) scintillation crystals. Fabrication methods, scintillator evaluation techniques, and applications in selective low-energy x-ray detection will be reported."
"The pulse shape of γ-induced photopeak scintillations in NaI(Tl) has been measured as a function of temperature for several standard commercial crystals and for crystals containing known thallium concentrations. A detailed analysis of the data indicates that the first two microseconds of the pulse is characterized by at least nine separate decay processes. Four of these are attributed to one radiative and three metastable states associated with a thallous ion. Two fast processes are attributed to emission characteristic of pure NaI while two others are associated with high thallium concentration. Energy transport is suggested as the ninth process."
"The several emission bands of scintillator crystal NaI(TlI) excited by X-irradiation have been studied between 5° and 80°K. It was possible to trap electrons as Tl° and holes as I2- and Tl++ during irradiation and cause recombination thermally or by optical stimulation after irradiation to give the same emissions. The processes responsible for recombination after irradiation are discussed and assignments based on these results made for processes during irradiation."
"Monte-Carlo calculations have been performed to determine how much of the broadening of the output pulse of NaI(Tl) scintillation counters is due to the nonproportionality of response of NaI(Tl) to electrons, for incident photons of energy 10 KeV to 1 MeV. Interactions taking place in the crystal have been simulated in detail and take into account fluctuations in light output, due not only to the primary Compton and photoelectric processes, but also to energy-loss fluctuations in the ionizing process along the track of individual electrons. The contribution of these fluctuations is important at energies above 200 KeV but a substantial fraction of the experimental line broadening at low energies remains unaccounted for. It is suggested that the contribution of the crystal to the total broadening is quite sensitive to the shape of the electron response curve."
"The secondary-emission process, which is fundamental to photomultipliers used in scintillation counters, can be considered to consist of three physical processes: (1) excitation of secondary electrons, (2) transport of these electrons through the solid, and (3) transport through the vacuum-solid interface. Based upon these processes, a model can be derived which explains the shape and magnitude of the secondary-emission yield curves as well as the velocity distribution of the emitted electrons. Furthermore, such a model can be useful in the search for better secondary emitters. The application of certain solid-state concepts such as band bending to the preparation and processing of appropriate semiconductors has led to enormous improvement in the transport and escape of secondary electrons and has made possible the development of a new type of secondary emitter with a maximum yield which is an order of magnitude or more greater than the yields of the best previously described materials. These secondary-electron emitters may be useful in producing multipliers with fewer stages, better statistics, and higher speeds than those presently available."
"The application of a transfer technique to the processing of various types of phototubes is described. The advantages of this method are discussed with reference to various classes of tubes. By processing the photocathode separately, it is possible to improve the sensitivity, uniformity, reproducibility and stability with time, and to reduce field emission and dark current of the assembled tube."
"A new silicon multiplying structure, of the reverse epitaxial type, suitable for use in conjunction with a photocathode of a photomultiplier tube decreases the switching time for high current pulses. To obtain linear output current of 10 amps into a 50Ω load and switching times of the order of 10-9 sec, a passivated over-polarized diode of 30 μ thickness was employed. We studied the electrostatic focusing of the hybrid multiplier to decrease as much as possible the transit time (10-12 sec) of the 12 keV photoelectrons and transit time fluctuations. To protect the diode junction edge from cesium and antimony vapor, the diode is masked while these materials are deposited on the photo surface. The photocathode and the diode were then heated under the same high vacuum and the whole structure sealed by the transfer method. With a 300Ω cm silicon structure, linear currents to 4 amperes are obtained with a current risetime of 1.3 × 10-9 sec."
"An extremely small photomultiplier tube capable of withstanding shock accelerations in excess of 10,000 g's has been developed. The tube is composed of (1) a multi-alkali photocathode deposited on an end-on window that is transfer sealed to the tube body, (2) an electron multiplier composed of 1008 continuous dynode electron multipliers, (3) a cylindrical tube body especially designed for hard mounting, and (4) a ruggedized anode. Only four electrical connections are needed to operate the tube. The tube weighs less than 13 grams and occupies a volume of less than a cubic inch. Tube operation under dc and wide bandwidth conditions are discussed. In addition, performance characteristics are discussed. These characteristics include gain, power dissipation, dark current, and output current. Potential uses for the tube are also described which include (1) scintillation sensing, (2) laser pulse detection, (3) space instrumentation aDplications, and (4) spatial as well as time resolution potential."
"The feasibility of making metal-ceramic photomultipliers capable of surviving and operating at temperatures up to 175°C has been demonstrated. These tubes use the CsK2Sb photocathode and have typical quantum efficiencies of 25 to 30 per cent. Results indicate that CsK2Sb is an extremely stable photocathode when a suitable environment can be provided. Tube performance characteristics have been measured over the temperature range from room temperature to +175°C. The variation of sensitivity (pulse height) and pulse-height resolution as a function of temperature has been determined. The temperature dependence of dark current and noise has also been evaluated. The data indicate that tubes of this type are suitable for many scintillation counting applications throughout this temperature range."
"The rapidly expanding use of Ge(Li) detectors in all fields of gamma-ray spectroscopy has led to a need for information from which experimenters may effectively select the best detector for their special needs. This is necessitated because of the large variety of detector sizes and configurations which are currently available and the lack of standardization of sizes. Several criteria should be considered in the selection of a detector for a specific application. Among these are: 1) detection efficiency, 2) charge collection efficiency, which gives rise to abnormal peak broadening as a function of gamma-ray energy as well as to asymmetric peak shapes, 3) timing characteristics for coincidence applications, and 4) energy resolution which is one of the measures of the ability to identify a weak gamma-ray in the presence of strong higher-energy gamma rays. We have measured these characteristics for several planar and open-ended and five-sided coaxial detectors. Absolute full-energy peak, double-escape peak and single-escape peak efficiencies were obtained for gamma-ray energies from 30 keV to 11 MeV. For planar devices, the effects of thickness and cross-sectional area of the depleted volume have been investigated. Some studies have been made of the problems involved in measuring gamma-ray intensities. These include measurements of the counter \"edge effects\" by a comparison of the efficiency curves obtained at different source-detector distances. Other studies involve random and real coincidence summing effects which are countingrate and geometry-dependent effects."
"The problems dealt with concern the production of electron-hole pairs in a semiconductor nuclear radiation sensor. The goal is to develop a semiphenomenological model capable of describing the present experimental situation from the standpoint of yield, variance and bandgap dependence. We proceed on the premise that ϵ, the average amount of radiation energy consumed per pair, can be accounted for by a sum of three contributions: the intrinsic bandgap (EG), optical phonon losses r(h ωR), and the residual kinetic energy (9/5)EG. Both the bandgap and the temperature dependence of pair-creation energies conform to this model and suggest that optical phonon losses remain essentially constant [0.5 ≤ r(hωR) ≤ 1.0 eV]. Fano-factor variations are found to reflect the relative weight of phonon losses [ϰ = r(hωR)/EG], but residual energy fluctuations govern the statistical behavior for ϰ2 ≲ 0.3; an application to Ge detectors yields good agreement with the best measurements available (F ≈ 0.13). Finally, it is shown that materials such as Si or CdTe (1.0 ≤ EG ≤ 1.5 eV) provide optimized media in terms of the \"ultimate\" resolution capability."
"Ion-implantation techniques were used to produce n+ and p+-contacts on n and p-type germanium, n and p-type silicon and lithium compensated germanium. Interstitial and substitutional doping behaviour of 33 elements were investigated. Only with few ions it is possible to get non-injecting contacts with good reverse characteristics using low temperature annealing process. Results on the application of those contacts to radiation detection are given."
"The advantages and problems associated with the use of ion implantation for the fabrication of position-sensitive particle detectors are discussed. Analysis of the noise and pulse risetime properties of such devices shows the desirability of using a high sheet resistance in the distributing resistive layer for optimum position resolution while restricting the RC of the detector to values approximately equal to the clipping times used in the measuring circuits in order to obtain good position linearity. From both detector noise and pulse rise-time considerations it is found desirable to use equal pulse shaping in the energy and the position signal measuring systems. Detectors were made by implantation of 60 keV boron and phosphorus ions into 4000 ohm-cm n-type silicon. Representative results are shown for a 4×32 mm2 one dimensional detector which shows integral and differential position nonlinearity of less than one percent and position resolution of less than 0.2 mm. Extension to one dimensional detectors up to 50 mm and to 10×10mm two dimensional detectors is discussed."
"Research on avalanche or high field types of semiconductor detectors has increased within the past two years, impelled, in part, by the great interest in the photo-detection field. We have concentrated on the surface contoured-deep junction diffusion approach while other investigators generally have pursued the use of a planar-oxide passivated-shallow diffused structures. Reported herein are results of studies of deep (25-50 microns) diffused N + P type germanium avalanche detector structures. A relatively simple closed \"box\" type process has been developed for diffusion of arsenic and antimony into germanium. Results of detector characteristics and multiplication measurements are presented. A concept for arrays of avalanche detectors (particularly to this time of silicon) is discussed. Results, in terms of uniformity of avalanche breakdown and gain, of a number of arrays fabricated are indicated together with the insight that this work has given to what appears to be the limitation of avalanche devices - resistivity inhomogeneities in the starting semiconductor crystal. These inhomogeneities take the form, at least in crystal produced by the floating zone technique, of micro-striations. Our example of a developed array is shown - a large area quadrature instrument that, it is hoped, will find use in detection of plutonium in wounds by detecting its 17keV X-ray emanation."
"The transient response of surface barrier detectors fabricated from semi-insulating CdTe has been analyzed under the conditions of trapping and detrapping. An analysis of the response of these devices to alphas allows measurement of material parameters pertinent to gamma detection and also verifies a theoretical model of trapping and detrapping. Actual and theoretical pulses presented here have a fast rising component followed by a slow rising component, the latter being associated with the release of carriers from traps. Decreasing the electric field increases the rise time and relative amplitude of the slow rising component. However, under high field conditions when detrapping times are much larger than the transit times and comparable to or greater than the trapping times, the rise time of the slow component of the pulse is nearly independent of electric field and is proportional to psiv;ϵεεεA/kT where ϵ ϵ εεεA is the depth of the trap. In addition, when the detrapping time is much larger than the transit time, decreasing the temperature increases the rise time of the slow component but does not change its relative amplitude. This analysis shows that although 100% collection efficiencies may be attained in conventional solid state detectors at elevated temperatures, this may not be the case at reduced temperature. Degradation in the performance of germanium spectrometers below 20°K may be explained by the trapping and detrapping of carriers."
"Photopeaks have been resolved from monoenergetic gammas within the 122 to 840 keV range using 40 mm3 surface barrier CdTe detectors operated at room temperature and under less than full collection conditions. Presently available CdTe exhibits heavy charge trapping and the gamma spectra reflect the effect of trapping and detrapping under changes of temperature, bias, and clipping time."
"The thickness of the entrance window of surface barrier detectors is experimentally studied by determining the pulse height defect obtained from a comparison of the pulse heights measured for protons and for Y rays of 80 keV. The used detectors have resistivities ranging from 150 to 50,000 Ω-cm. It is shown that for low resistivity materials (p ≤ 1000 Ω-cm) the window is formed by the gold layer only. At higher resistivities, the existence of an additional silicon dead layer is demonstrated ; the thickness of this region varies in terms of the resistivity ρ and the applied bias voltage V following a function of the form A ln(BΩ/V), where A and B are constants. The experimental results are interpreted by taking into account the role of oxygen in the formation of the rectifying contact. Two possible mechanisms are discussed ; in the first, oxygen is assumed to diffuse within the silicon crystal, where it acts as an acceptor ; in the second, oxygen is supposed to remain adsorbed at the surface and to form an inversion layer. The first mechanism is shown to lead to the best description of the present experimental data, but the validity of the second cannot be considered as absolutely disproved."
"The effects of certain new combinations of etch quenchants and surface treatments on the rectification characteristics of the gold-n-silicon surface barrier are described. Reverse currents of less than 1 μA/cm2 at 1500 volts bias at room temperature have been obtained with 450 ohm-cm silicon without using encapsulaticn or a guard ring structure and without prolonged aging. It is shown that differential capacitance measurements performed for determining the height of the surface potential barrier may be unsuccessful or inaccurate due to slow charge migraticn on the surface. Field effect measurements were performed and the surface potential and density of ionized fast states were obtained therefrom. A new ambient cycle was evolved in order to obtain the conductance minimum in the field effect measurements. It is shown that the best rectification characteristics are obtained not when an inversion layer is formed at the silicon surface but when a depletion layer is formed of just the right amount to make the surface conductance close to its minimum value. Surface treatments giving rise to strong inversion layers were found to consistently yield poor diodes. The correlation of the rectification characteristics to the density of fast states and to the thickness of the interfacial layer is discussed. The role of air and moisture in the formation of the diode is explained. A simple model of the surface barrier is presented which explains many of the observed effects."
"Ratio and time difference methods of obtaining positional information from detectors employing charge division by resistive electrodes are discussed. Linear, radial, X-Y, and R-Theta detectors are described."
"Cylindrical double-open-end coaxial Ge(Li) detectors have been studied at 77°K using a small-area (circular) collimated beam of 137Cs γ-rays. The beam was aimed parallel to the detector axis and moved across a diameter. On different detectors, different trapping effects were observed; one detector gave better resolution and a greater pulse height when irradiated near the p-type core, another gave best performance when irradiated near the outer n+-layer. The observed pulse shapes for different positions of irradiation showed general agreement with calculated pulse shapes based on an assumed r-1 variation of electric field across the i-region."
"A study has been made of the changes in net impurity concentration which occur when Ge(Li) diodes are allowed to remain unbiased at or near room temperature (termed relaxation), and when subjected to reheat cycles. The changes occur too rapidly to be explained in terms of lithium diffusion at the junction edges. Capacitance measurements have been used to determine impurity concentration profiles, and γ-ray scanning techniques used to locate junction positions. It has been shown that a reheat at 400°C causes the compensated region to become slightly n-type. On the other hand, a device allowed to remain unbiased at room temperature becomes more or less uniformly p-type. In the samples studied (twelve diodes made from gemanium from four different supliers) 'generation' rates of acceptors at 23°C varied from approxcimately 4 × 108 to 4 × 1010/cm3/hour. Since a well compensated diode has a net impurity concentration less than 1010 /cm3, this implies that in many diodes the degree of compensation changes substantially in a few hours."
"Studies have been made of several cylindrical coaxial Ge(Li) detectors through various cycles of warming to room temperature and subsequent 'cleanup' redrift - all in high vacuum. Conventional double-openend detectors with an n+-layer on the outside and a p-type core were used. Using the gamma-ray scanning technique it was observed that (1) When not fully cleaned up (capacitance decreasing with increasing voltage) the i-layer thickness increased from the n-layer towards the p-core as voltage was increased. (2) After a warm-up period, part of the i-layer nearest the core was lost with a reduction in efficiency (18% at 500V for one detector after an 8 hour warmup period). (3) Cleanup re-drift following a warm-up period restored the original characteristics but the cleanup time varied with the crystal from which the detector was made."
"The precipitation of lithium in germanium has been investigated by Morin and Reiss and by Swalin and Weltzin. The theories developed by these investigators have been used to calculate the rate of lithium precipitation in a typical lithium-drifted germanium detector. It is found that precipitation occurs predominantly in the n+ - region of the detector. Precipitation in the intrinsic layer can be avoided, in general, by maintaining the lithium solubility at a high value in this layer. This will be the case if the electron concentration in the intrinsic layer is kept at a small value at all times."
"The Michigan State University Cyclotron Laboratory has undertaken a program of develoning lithium-drifted germanium for hiphresolution charged particle soectroscopy. The charged particle spnectroscopy has been concerned with reactions leading to protons, deuterons, and tritons in the energy range of 25 to 90 MeV. The emphasis of this program has been two-fold in that both the response of the detector and the packaging of the detector are considered. The side-entrv geometry Ge(Li) detector was shown to be capable of 60 keV (FWHM) with 40-MeV protons. The major limitation in the resolution for this geometry is attributed to a non-uniform window (3-12μ) on the surface of the detector. The electrodes of a side entry detector were segmented and a single crystal 㥎 - E counter telescope was achieved. The best resolution was achieved with a thin-window surface barrier Ge(Li) detector and measured to be 34 keV (FWHM) for 40 MeV protons. A \"thin\" slit was used and shown to give cleaner spectra over a limited range in excitation energy. A peak to valley ratio of 5000:1 was obtained using this thin slit. The proton radiation damage of Ge(Li) was studied at 40 MeV and shown to be an appreciable problem bv 1010 protons/cm2."
"The germanium for lithium drift germanium detectors should have the following properties: 1. High lithium drift rate. 2. Low reverse current during the drifting process - particularly for high temperature drifting. 3. Minimal lithium precipation during drifting. 4. Capability of fabrication into detectors exhibiting (a) Low noise reverse currents at high bias voltages (b) A minimum of carrier trapping. Germanium grown in a hydrogen atmosphere exhibits most of these desirable qualities. Measurements of ρ, τ, dislocation density, Hall mobility, conductivity, and IR absorption on both hydrogen grown and normally grown crystals have been made for correlation with detector properties. These measurements and the details of the hydrogen growth process are discussed."
"High voltage breakdown low current diodes have been made by the simple and reproducible process of quenching the final H202-HF etch of the diode with an acqueous salt solution. Of those salts tried CaCl2 gives the best overall performance. Planar diodes 28 mm diameter and 5 mm drift depth have been made with leakage currents < 5×10-10 A for fields up to 600 V/mm. The diode surface noise on these units was less than 0.3 keV. The surface treatment also gives some surface passivation."
"Silicon transmission semiconductor detectors with thicknesses of 191 and 530 μm were exposed to normally incident electrons with energies of 0.25, 0.50, 0.75, and 1.00 MeV. When the detector thickness is less than the incident electron range, the pulse-height distributions produced by the electrons in these detectors were characterized by an absorption peak and a relatively broad escape peak which was associated with transmission and reflection of electrons. Comparisons were made between the experimental pulse-height distributions and Monte Carlo results calculated for identical conditions. Good agreement was found between theory and experiment at 0.75 and 1.00 MeV; however, differences, that remain to be explained, appeared in the position of the escape peak at 0.25 and 0.50 MeV."
"Changes in the performance of silicon surface-barrier detectors after irradiation with protons at energies between 0.80 MeV and 5.00 MeV have been investigated for fluences up to 1017 protons cm-2. Irradiations of the front, surface-barrier contacts and the rear, ohmic contacts of these transmission detectors were performed. In general, the detector current and noise increased with fluence. When the rear, ohmic contact was irradiated with protons which stopped within the detector, the changes in the current and noise after irradiation were several orders of magnitude smaller than after a similar irradiation of the front contact. For protons with energies greater than about 1 MeV, the detector capacitance decreased at low reverse biases and increased at high biases with increasing fluence. The results indicate that a significant reduction in the increase of detector current and noise can be obtained if the density of radiation-produced defects in the region of the junction is minimized."
"Several experimental results are given on plasma time in solid state detectors. They were obtained by various kinds of ionizing particles (∝-particles, deuterons and protons) incident on particular solid state detectors. These results refer to electric fields between 250 and 2500 V/cm and to temperatures of 300°K, 185°K and 77°K."
"A configuration of a large Ge(Li) detector has been developed which suppresses single, local interactions, particularly Compton scatterings. The peripheral n+ contact of a coaxial detector is split into two or more segments, and events are recorded from the central p contact if signals are coincidentally present on two segments of the n+ contact. A sum signal is derived from the central p contact through a high resolution preamplifier, and individual localization signals are taken from each segment of the n+ contact through simple voltage-sensitive preamplifiers. The maximum sensitivity of the system lies between 300 and 1300 keV where the Compton crosssection is dominant and many Compton scattered γ-rays are not sufficiently energetic to escape. The total absorption mode achieves about 20% of the photopeak efficiency of the detector operated in the normal singles mode. An increase in the ratio of the full energy peaks to the Compton continuum of 10:1 is found for 60Co γ-rays, and it is significantly greater for γ-rays of less than 1 MeV. The use of internal detector summing of the linear signal eliminates the need for complicated external preamplifier gain adjustment and stability. Capacitively coupled, voltage-sensitive preamps on each n+ segment add negligible noise and reduce the sum signal-to-noise ratio only to the extent that the input shunt capacitance used reduces the sum signal level by about 10%. Thus, a 30 cc split n+ detector yields 3.9 keV 60Co resolution in the coincidence mode compared with 3.5 keV when both n+ segments are grounded."
"A two crystal Ge(Li) detector system has been developed for use as an anti-Compton gamma-ray spectrometer. The basic components of this system are a pair of Ge(Li) detectors mounted in tandem. Coincidence techniques are used to require a gamma ray to interact by multiple processes (e. g. one or more Compton events followed by a photoelectric event) in each portion of the pair of detectors. The total energy deposited is then recorded. Energy absorbed by a single process (e. g. one Compton event) is not recorded. The resulting spectrum is made up of full energy peaks above a low and featureless background characterized by the absence of Compton edges. An investigation of the efficiency and peak-to-background ratio as a function of gamma ray energy has been made for this new gamma-ray spectrometer."
"A Ge(Li) Compton sum coincidence spectrometer which greatly reduces the Compton continuum and essentially eliminates the Compton edges for low energy gammas has been fabricated. This spectrometer was made from a single cylinder of germanium in which lithium was drifted to form two separate and equal depth concentric detectors. An event in the full energy peak is recorded only if the total energy deposition occurs as the result of multiple events, with each detector sharing in the absorption process. Several types of gamma-ray spectra are presented which show the reduction of the Compton continuum. For the case of the 1275 keV gamma from 22Na the ratio of the full energy peak to Compton edge (in this case a multiple Compton event edge) increases from 2.8 to 1, when the device is used as the sum of two single spectrometers, to 13.5 to 1 when it is used in the sum coincidence mode with a decrease of efficiency of a factor of five. This ratio for the 511 keV line from 22Na increases from 3.6 to 1, to 18 to 1. Other spectra are shown and a discussion of efficiency is presented."
"An anticoincidence-shielded Ge(Li) gamma-ray spectrometer for high sensitivity counting is described. The system consists of a 20 cc coaxial diode centered inside a 26\" diameter by 24\" thick plastic phosphor. The source is placed inside the shield and both the coincidence and anticoincidence spectra are recorded simultaneously. The anticoincidence shield reduces the 137Cs Compton edge by a factor of 7.5 to provide a peak to Compton edge ratio of 150:1 without reducing the photopeak efficiency by more than 3%. This system also provides a two to fourfold lower natural radionuclide background than similar sized diodes."
"A γ-γ coincidence arrangement employing two large volume (20 cm3) Ge(Li) coaxial detectors has been realized. Each diode has two isolated outputs, one of which yields the energy information of the incident radiation and the other one the timing signal. The prompt resolution curve obtained with a 60Co source has a full width at half maximum of 11 ns. Coincidence γ-ray spectra are observed with one Ge(Li) detector when the other is gated on the 1333 keV full energy peak. The use of a 30 ns coincidence resolving time results in an undistorted coincidence spectrum for energies higher than about 150 keV. In order to illustrate the applications of this technique, results obtained in γ-γ coincidence experiments with the complex γ-ray emitter 132I are presented and discussed."
"A 12-channel array of lithium-drifted silicon detectors for detecting high energy electrons in the focal plane of a magnetic spectrometer is described. The detectors are movable along the focal plane and are backed up by two large stationary plastic scintillators. The scintillators are placed one behind the other, such that a count is recorded when a triple coincidence occurs between both scintillators and a single semiconductor detector. The system has a momentum resolution of 0.036 percent, determined by the detector size and the spectrometer momentum dispersion. Discriminator curves have been obtained which show sufficiently flat plateaus to afford stable counting conditions for electron momentum greater than 20 MeV/C. Detector efficiency measurements have also been made which show that the relative efficiencies of the detectors are stable and known to less than two percent of their values. An electron scattering experiment is now in progress using these detectors."
"A time-of-flight spectrometer has been designed to detect neutrons in the energy region from 10 to 100 MeV (and possibly also to higher energies). The principle of the spectrometer requires an incident neutron to lose a small fraction of its energy in a collision with a proton in a scintillator. The scattered neutron must then travel over a suitable flight path before interacting in a second scintillator. The time interval between the two scintillation pulses is a measure of the neutron energy. The small energy-transfer condition on the scattering process is imposed by restricting the kinetic energy of the recoil proton to be less than a predetermined value. Means for discriminating against background events include an anticoincidence detector for rejecting charged particles and a pulse-shape discrimination scheme for rejecting neutron interactions with carbon nuclei. Gamma-rays are rejected by time-of-flight and also by the pulse-shape discrimination circuitry. The spectrometer may be designed either for low counting rate applications such as measurements of fluxes and spectra of the energetic-neutron component of stray radiation fields around particle accelerators, or for higher counting rate experiments such as angular and energy distribution measurements of energetic-neutrons produced in the bombardment of both thin and thick targets. For the case of 14 MeV neutrons emerging isotropically from a target, a typical detector configuration consists of a first scintillator with a volume of 103 cc, a second cylindrical scintillator with a diameter of 10 cm, and a mean spacing between the two scintillators of 1.91 meters."
"This paper describes the underlying principles of a computer code to automatically analyse a gamma-ray spectrum obtained with a Ge(Li) detector. The significant peaks present in the spectrum are detected by observing changes in the first derivative which is measured after random variations in count-rate have been minimised by the application of a smoothing function. Pseudo-peaks due to backscattering events or Compton edge effects are eliminated, and the intensities and energies of the component gamma-rays are calculated by fitting a Gaussian function to each peak in turn. The analysis of overlapping peaks is considered and conditions chosen to optimise their detection. It is shown that if a catalogue of gamma-ray energies is available to the computer then it is possible to automatically identify the component isotopes and evaluate their activities."
"In this paper the idea of a general signal processing system which should satisfy various pulse rate and noise requirements is explored. Optimum processing functions (weighting functions) are considered for an ideal system, and for real conditions where effects like imperfect pole-zero cancellation are present. Time-variant filters of the gain-varying class are used to realize the required optimum weighting functions of finite width. It is shown how nonfinite-width weighting functions of some time-invariant filters can be modified into finite-width functions by switching. These switched-gain time-variant filters are somewhat limited in choice of weighting functions. A general processing system can be realized employing filters with continuously time-variant elements. In particular, a gain-varying element (i.e., an analog multiplier) can be used in conjunction with an integrator to realize arbitrary weighting functions, and therefore the theoretically maximum signal-to-noise ratio. The system is time-variant only for the noise and not for the signal, so that it does not require high precision of the time-variant element. The system output is independent of the gating interval, and does not require precise timing. A method for evaluation of such systems in terms of noise, ballistic deficit and sensitivity to parameter variations is given."
"In the present paper a generalised formula is developed for the power spectrum of the short-circuit noise current of three-terminal devices. The power spectrum is shown to be determined by a factor 2-kTg/ηIe which can never be greater than 2 and never smaller than 1. This factor corresponds to the various \"smoothing\" factors (F, Q, H...) normally used when device noise is described by means of the shot noise associated with the d.c. current flowing through the device or by the measured transconductance. The limiting values for these factors are probably not device geometry determined but rather depend on the fundamental mechanism responsible for the discrepancy between the measured and the theoretically highest possible value Ie/kT of the transconductance. kTg/ηIe, the internal feedback factor, describes the reduction of transconductance owing to space charge or bulk resistance in the current path whilst η is a structural constant of the device related to the efficiency of the gate voltage control. The utility of the generalised fluctuation noise formula is demonstrated for different devices at various temperatures and the measured noise power spectrum is used for the determination of η."
"A hypercryogenic high-resolution x-ray and x-ray spectrometer is described. The spectrometer consists of a lithium-drifted germanium detector and a germanium-junction field-effect transistor (JFET) preamplifier. The detector is operated at its optimum temperature, which is in the range of 10-30° K. The JFET's are operated at liquid helium temperature. This results in 0.28 keV FWHM preamplifier resolution with a slope of 0.018 keV/pF. Resolutions of the order of 0.4 keV are obtained with low capacitance detectors for low-energy x rays. The x rays of 57Co are measured with 0.68 keV FWHM. The described spectrometer was used to study some aspects of the trapping effects in germanium detectors."
"The suppression of the background continuum in solid-state detectors by anticoincidence and/or pulse-shape discrimination aids in the interpretation of spectra and enhances the peak to Compton ratio. Studies were performed with both 137Cs and 59Fe sources. For the 59Fe source, an average reduction of 85% in the continuum resulted using a planar diode 110 mm2 by 2.4 mm deep in an anticoincidence annulus of NaI(Tl). Both the distribution and number of events rejected varies with the amplifier shaping time constants. Results are compared with those obtained by other investigators."
"A new electronic circuit has been developed for discriminating between pulses induced by neutrons and gammas in organic detectors. Both stilbene and NE 213 may be used as detectors with no change in the pulse shape discriminator circuit. The circuit is contained in an AEC module of standard dimensions and is designed to be compatible with modular counting systems. Pulse shape discrimination is obtained by comparing the light emitted during the early part of the pulse with the light emitted in the first 1 μ sec interval. New electronic techniques employed in the comparison circuits make it possible to achieve an electronic dead time of less than L5 μ sec. Two logic signals are provided to identify neutron and gamma pulses so that neutron and gamma spectroscopy may be simultaneously performed. The time at which these logic signals appear is defined by the application of a.marker to the circuit. The circuit has been used over a neutran energy range of 1 - 15 MeV and applied to the measurement of energy spectra from neutron sources and to photoneutron spectroscopy."
"Utilizing times of flight on the order of a nanosecond for heavy particle identification with silicon detectors, it is desirable to reliably distinguish time differences of approximately 100 picoseconds or less. In addition, the required timing circuitry must not substantially deteriorate amplitude resolution capability. In the system designed for this purpose the detector charge is first collected on the capacitance of the detector and fast, low noise, preamplifier and is later transferred to the charge sensitive preamplifier. The fast signal is processed to obtain good time resolution and low walk. The system has a FWHM time resolution of 40 picoseconds, referred to 5.8 MeV deposited in a 100 pF silicon detector. An actual peak width from 3 MeV deposited in an 80 pF silicon by He3 particles was 165 psec FWHM, which is about twice that expected if more optimum pulse shaping had been employed. The instrumental walk for a 100 to 1 amplitude range is less than 150 picoseconds, and is approximately 100 picoseconds for a 30 to 1 range. The noise added to the slow system is equal to that caused by an additional 17 pF of capacitance at its input, plus an overall increase of 5% or less for commonly used slow pulse shaping."
"A circuit for producing a timing signal from the leading edge of slow rising Ge-Li detector output signals is described. In order to preserve the system resolution, the input signal is taken from the output of the charge sensitive preamplifier. An internal discriminator strobes the tunnel diode pick-off to reduce the noise triggering rate. The effects of multiple low-pass time constants on the walk is analyzed and found to be in agreement with the measured results. For input signals having a rise-time of 100 ns, the walk is less than 3 ns and the FWHM time jitter less than 1 ns over the range of l to 10 MeV. A temperature compensated delayed output circuit, adjustable over the range of 50 to 750 ns, is also included for use in conjunction with cross-over timing."
"A solid state, double pulse generator with a pulse amplitude temperature coefficient of 0 to -8 ppm/°C was developed. It is shown that when a servo-stabilized spectrometer is locked on the pulser peaks, the gain and zero-intercept of the system drift only ±20 ppm/day or less than 1/10 of the optimum resolution of Ge(Li) detectors. The pulser generates signals which rise in 15 nsec, remain flat-topped for 40 μsec and then fall exponentially to the baseline in 250 μsec. The pulse rate can be varied from 0.1 - 1000 pulse-pairs/sec in 9 steps. The amplitude of the two pulses can be set independently from 5.5-700 mV, using a 7-bit precision R-2R attenuator. When used in conjunction with a preamplifier test capacitor of 1 pF, this amplitude range corresponds to 0.1 - 12.7 MeV (Ge). A \"tag\" pulse, generated in coincidence with each reference pulse, can be used for gating a multichannel analyzer, a coincidence system or a stabilizer. The performance of the pulser was measured with a computer based, servo-stabilized multichannel analyzer in which the two 60Co lines from a Ge(Li) detector were used as the stabilizer reference peaks. The pulser signal was injected into the preamplifier via a 1 pF air-dielectric capacitor mounted in a temperature regulated oven. The pulser peak was set between the 60Co peaks, and its location was measured as a function of temperature, supply voltage and repetition rate."
"The design and philosophy of a new current-mode trigger pulse generator are described. The pulse generator uses two transistors in a coupled emitter configuration and only ordinary components. The output impedance at collectors is 93 ohms though this may be reduced where it is desired to match other transmission line impedances. Rise time is less than 3 nanoseconds with jitter in the 10-11 second range. Pulse output is ±2.5 volts and extremely clean and square with little undershoot or overshoot. Pulse length may be chosen, in the normal way, to be from ~10 nsec. up to microseconds. The circuit may be retriggered as soon as the output has recovered to zero. Its layout will be discussed and also its use as a replacement for limiter circuits in fast coincidence measurements."
"A directional, low energy electron detector has been developed for flight aboard the Modular Auroral Probe sounding rocket. Low energy electrons incident in an aperture with a half-angle of 5° are observed at pitch angles of 50° and 130°. At each pitch angle the electron flux is measured as a function of electron energy in the range 1-16 kev. This energy discrimination is accomplished by sweeping the voltage of an electromagnet through values which focus the electrons at 160° into channel electron multipliers. In order to calibrate the instrument, an extensive experimental investigation of the fundamental properties of the recently-developed channel electron multiplier was made. The results of this investigation include values of electron detection efficiency as a function of (1) incident electron energy, (2) pumping time after vacuum conditions have been reached, and (3) orientation of the electron beam on the multiplier aperture. Effects such as variation of count rate and gain as a function of high voltage applied to the multiplier are discussed. Also presented are proton detection efficiencies as a function of incident proton energy in the range 0.1-3.5 kev."
"The use of channel multipliers for the photo-electric detection of X-radiation in the wavelength range 2.1 - 67 Å has been investigated. Measurements of photon detection efficiency are presented for a bare channel multiplier and for multipliers specially coated with photoemissive materials. The variation of photon detection efficiency with angle of incidence is shown to be in fair agreement with that predicted by an analysis of the X-ray photo-electric response of a cylindrical photo-cathode. The surface yields derived from the measurements for Li F and MgF2 are compared with other published data, based on plane photo-cathode measurements, and shown to be in good agreement. A specific application of the channel multiplier in X-Ray Astronomy is described. The results of an investigation into the X-ray response and spatial resolution of a channel multiplier array are also presented. The measured resolution is close to the expected value. The application of arrays of channel multipliers to image dissection in X-ray spectroscopy is discussed."
"A number of investigations, suitable to be performed from space vehicles, make use of nuclear pulse spectrometry as an instrumentation method. The Jet Propulsion Laboratory program described here was designed to provide a pulse-height analyzer of sufficient precision and versatility as to be suitable for any of a number of such spaceborne investigations. The analyzer may be commanded inflight to perform pulse-height analysis, time analysis, or multiparameter analysis. Instruction storage, data storage, and data readout, including a data compression option, are provided internally."
"A solid state detector system is described which has been developed for flight on an Orbiting Geophysical Observatory in polar orbit. Measurements will be made of the electron flux and spectra above 35 KeV, both for precipitating and locally mirroring electrons, as well as atmospheric backscatter. This paper reviews the physical need and the design requirements of such an experiment; and describes the detector and electronic implementation of the experiment including the methods of monitoring detector and electronic performance in flight."
"We wish to report the details of an experiment to measure the charge composition of the primary cosmic radiation from Z = 1 to about 50 in the energy range 1010 to 1014 eV. A large geometry factor of ~7500 cm2ster is necessary to measure intensities at the low flux levels of these particles. The necessary charge resolution can be obtained using 1/2 m × 1/2 m square detection elements in the following manner. The linearity properties of CsI scintillators and Cerenkov detectors make them ideal for primary charge identification. Further charge information and a fast coincidence pulse will be obtained from two geometry defining plastic scintillators. The fast coincidence pulse will trigger a digitized spark chamber which will provide sufficient directional and positional information so that resolutions comparable with much smaller area detectors can be obtained. The energy of the incident particles is determined using total energy spectrometers. The module for examining electromagnetic cascades consists of six tungsten-scintillator elements, each of one cascade length thickness and each pulse height analyzed. The energy of incident nucleons is measured in the 20 elements of an iron-scintillator ionization calorimeter. It has a total depth of 3.5 nuclear interaction mean free paths."
"A transmission-line type digital spark chamber is described consisting of electrodes of etched wires on an \"H\" Film substrate, backed by a bonded metal foil. The foils are pulsed from one end and are terminated and connected to the wires at the other end. The chamber gives uniform response. The size of the spark was investigated for several HV pulse shapes and amplitudes. The efficiency is high even to multiple sparks because the spark impedance in gases with quenching vapors is high relative to the line impedance, and because of the strong coupling to the pulsed foils."
"The sequential logic theory previously advanced[2] is generalized to operations between variables of maximum word length n. Based on the generalized sequential logic operations, a new kind of probability, termed sequential probability, is introduced. By means of sequential probability, a mathematical model can be obtained for finite random sequential automata. This model can be used for analysis and synthesis of random sequential automata."
"An algorithm for the realization of k-threshold threshold realizable functions is presented. Instead of solving the set of linear inequalities, where the unknowns are the weights corresponding to the input variables, incremental weights are sought. The procedure reduces to that of resolving contradicting pairs of vertices by the incremental weights. The minimum number of thresholds are sought for each complementation and permutation of input variables. A definition of an optimal multithreshold weight threshold vector is derived from the reliability viewpoint. The desired solution is obtained through a search of all possible obtainable realization vectors of the function. For single-threshold realizable functions, permutation and complementation of input variables need not be considered if the input variables of the function are ordered and positivized. The procedure is systematic and has been programmed in FORTRAN IV. As a comparison with Haring and Ohori's tabulation on the 221 equivalence classes of four variable Boolean functions under the NPN1 operation, it can be seen that 42 of the 221 equivalence classes need fewer numbers of thresholds for their realization. For the same number of thresholds, 58 equivalence classes have less absolute sum of weights. Finally, with the number of thresholds and absolute sum of weights being equal, 36 equivalence classes have lower threshold values."
"This paper deals with input tolerance considerations of a multithreshold threshold element. The concept of a multilevel minus-plus-one model[9] of a threshold element is introduced. It is shown that the multilevel minus-plus-one model is equivalent to the zero-one model[9] of a multithreshold element. The equivalence is established through a set of defining equations similar to that of a single threshold threshold element. For a nonlinearly separable Boolean function, more than one multithreshold weight threshold vector may exist for its realization, even though the number of thresholds and the sum of the absolute magnitude of all the input weights are the same; i.e., Σni=1 |wi|. From reliability considerations, the optimal synthesis of the multithreshold threshold elements is shown to depend on the magnitudes of max (|T1|, |Tk|) in addition to the minimum number of thresholds needed to realize the Boolean function and the min Σni=1 |wi|. An example is given for illustrative purposes of choosing an optimal realization. For a given margin of operation with the error model assumed, it is shown that one need only work from the normalized set of inequalities. The solution with margins specified is obtained from the optimal solutions of the normalized system of inequalities."
"An Analog Comparator Interrupt Device signals the computer central processor whenever the computer display unit deflection voltages cause the CRT beam to fall within a small square surrounding a previously specified display coordinate. This provides the display with the sensing capability of a light pen that is necessary if a RAND tablet or other position input device is to be used to point at display picture elements in graphics applications. The X and Y deflection voltages corresponding to the cursor or pointer are stored and then compared with subsequent X and Y input voltages. An interrupt output is produced when a match occurs within certain limits. Operational amplifiers and field-effect transistor switches are connected in a simple feedback loop to provide storage and comparison. A diode net and threshold detector produce the output signal. This unit is now being used with the Lincoln Laboratory TX-2 computer curve-drawing display unit."
"Using a new definition for the equivalent of state assignments, the number of nonequivalent state assignments is derived. The exact number of nondegenerate state assignments is also compted."
"Properties of self-dual and self-complementary dual functions are discussed. Necessary and sufficient conditions of self-dual and self-complementary dual functions are obtained in terms of the multithreshold weight threshold vector. In particular, self-dual and self-complementary dual functions are shown to be realizable only by an odd and even number of effective thresholds, respectively. A threshold Tj is effective if Emin < Tjmax. It is shown that n+1 variable self-dual and self-complementary dual functions can always be generated from 1- and 2-effective-threshold weight threshold vectors of n-variable Boolean functions, respectively. If the number of effective thresholds exceeds 2, constraints on the thresholds must be met in order to generate n+1 variable self-dual and self-complementary dual functions. Such generations of self-dual and self-complementary dual functions are shown to correspond to the functional forms of self-dualization and self-complementary dualization of an n-variable Boolean function. Moreover, they are realized by the same threshold vector T. Furthermore, it is shown that if an n-variable Boolean function Fn(X) is self-dual or self-complementary dual with weight threshold vector [Wn; T], then an n+m variable self-dual or self-complementary dual Boolean function Fn+m(X), where m is any positive integer, can be realized by a weight threshold vector [Wn+m; T]. The above cited weight vectors Wn and Wn+m are constrained by If Σn i=1 Wi = Σn+m i=1 Wi. Σn i=1 |Wi| = &3x003A3;n+m i=1 |Wi|, then optimal realization vectors seem to be obtained."
"This paper discusses ternary cellular cascades, i.e., one-dimensional arrays of ternary two-input one-output cells. It is shown that every ternary combinational switching function can be realized by such a cascade."
"Gill[1] has shown that if there exists a finite-memory n-state sequential machine with finite memory μ, then μ cannot exceed ½n(n-1)ΔNn. He has further shown[2] that there exists an n-state Nn input-binary output machine with memory μ= Nn for every n. The question of whether a tighter upper bound might be placed on μ by the order of the input alphabet was raised by Gill. Massey[3] recently has shown that there exists a ternary input-binary output finite-memory machine with memory μ=Nn for every n. The primary purpose of this note is to show that for every n there exists an n-state binary input-binary output finite-memory machine with memory μ= Nn, and thus μ is shown not to be limited by the order of the input alphabet. It is shown that for every n there are actually at least two different machines with memory μ = Nn. It will also be shown that for every n there exists a binary input-binary output n-state finite-memory machine with μ = Nn-1."
"A method of network synthesis for general combinational functions that uses a number of fixed threshold logic units not greatly in excess of the theoretical minimum is described. It can be used with adaptive logic in which case a minority of the interconnections are simply adapted once according to the rule originally suggested by Hebb. This network on its own has no capacity for ``generalization,'' and if used for pattern recognition must therefore be operated in conjunction with a suitable property filter, such as that of the previous paper.[1] In this case the present network could perform as a trainable ``categorizer.''"
"The idea of ``similarity'' between threshold functions is developed in a unified fashion and illustrated geometrically. Formulas are given to transform the corresponding threshold gate realizations."
"A physical realization of an adaptive threshold logic gate which can be used to realize linearly separable switching functions is presented. The system is completely electronic and is easily implemented in the sense that standard components may be used throughout. The memory circuit used for each weight of the device stabilizes the voltage across a capacitor by means of a sampling technique. Over the range that the capacitor voltage is stabilized, the net average capacitor current is zero at a discrete number of stable voltages which can be made numerous enough to approximate analog memory. The device exhibits both long-term stability and ease in weight adjustment. Training results are given for several linearly separable switching functions. This circuit shows that a practical adaptive threshold logic gate can be realized. The incorporation of integrated circuitry in the device presented would greatly enhance the feasibility of building more complex trainable machines."
"Finite graph theory is applied to the problem of scaling fixed point Digital Differential Analyzers. The DDA scaling graph is introduced as a representation of the essential scaling information rather than the conventional integrator servo program network. Using the scaling graph, optimal scales are obtained simply, by constructing a maximum distance tree."
"A scheme is proposed for automatically detecting many programming errors; in particular, those errors which can cause a program to misbehave in different ways, depending upon how the faulty program and its data are mapped into storage. Error detection is accomplished by simultaneously running two versions of a program which purport to be logically identical, with appropriate hardware checking between them."
"A simple probability model is defined that represents modular memory systems under saturation demand for storage. An analysis of the model based on the theory of finite Markov chains leads to results that demonstrate the effects of changes in loading times and the number of modules on system performance."
"A dual classification of variable delays 1) by their explicit dependence on time or through a state variable and 2) through their origins as ``pipe'' or ``nonpipe'' problems is presented. Techniques of simulation through standard analog components and, more particularly, transport devices are analyzed and further classification made of the latter to distinguish those suitable for state-variable delay systems from those that are not. The construction and testing of a simple variable delay are described. An application to a system in which the delay is a sinusoidal function of time is discussed in detail. A theory is presented that predicts what frequencies will be present in the output of such a device when excited by a sinusoid of commensurate frequency; experimental results corroborating this are presented. A scheme for converting a problem with variable delay to one with fixed delay is further analyzed and its range of application delimited. Conclusions include a discussion of the best type of simulator to be used for variable delay problems."
"Perles, Rabin and Shamir conceived prefix automata as realizations of k-definite deterministic automata. The structure theory of deterministic automata as developed by Zeiger reveals that a prefix automaton may be decomposed into a cascade of reset machines."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"This index covers all technical items that appeared in this periodical during the year."
"This index covers all technical items that appeared in this periodical during the year."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"The increasing worldwide interest in automatic train control for rapid-transit systems has produced a wide variety of systems based on different philosophies. In autumn 1968, with the opening of the Victoria line, London Transport becomes one of the first major operators to use automatic control on a significant part of its system. Automatic train control is not an entirely new concept but is merely the logical extension of a process that has been developing over the past 70 years."
"Canada's Peace River project is one of the world's great hydroelectric developments. By providing assurance of abundant power, it will be a major factor in the expansion of industry in British Columbia during the next ten or fifteen years. Stimulated and supported by the assurance of ample electric power, new pulp mills have already been constructed and new mines opened in the interior - convincing evidence of the contribution of the project to the economic growth of the province."
"There are several indications that humanity is now entering a condition of rapid and continuous change with 'runaway' characteristics. There are also signs that the mass media are encouraging the rise of a new, rapidly self-adaptive culture of particular relevance to the near future. Social dynamics of this kind should be well within the conceptual range and social responsibility of engineers, and deserve their professional attention. Engineers are accustomed to studying complex systems, and are capable of making significant contributions to our understanding of the most important of all complex systems - society itself."
"In this shortened version of his IEE Presidential address, Prof. Meek outlines the background to his own field of research - spark breakdown in gases. He also discusses the contribution made to research by university workers, and the steps the IEE is taking, through its publications, meetings and information services, to promote the advancement of electrical engineering through research."
"Large economies in electricity-supply costs have been achieved in the past few years owing to the changeover from copper to aluminium as a material for cable conductors; the prospect of further sizable savings has prompted the investigation and development of polythene-insulated sodium conductors. As well as giving a possible capital saving of up to 50% over aluminium cables, the use of sodium cables can also lead to great economies because of the ease of handling and jointing."
"The properties of materials for heavy-current contacts have been the subject of extensive research, but many of the tests developed over the years have fallen short of giving an accurate indication of how contacts will behave in service. Simple apparatus has recently been developed which can simulate the conditions actually experienced by contacts in switching devices; by separating the variables which determine contact performance, these tests may lead to the development of optimum contact materials for different applications."
"The engineer should be proud to give his best inventive skill to the solution of the problems of the housewife in the kitchen, since more routine work is done by educated people in the house and kitchen than anywhere else in the world, and the highest aim in life for the engineer is to give men and women a more satisfactory life. Even on a lower plane, he is looking after his own self interest, because he will be required to help in the kitchen more and more if he does not produce the necessary machines to help his wife."
"The design of a new product and the duties of a product engineer involve, among other factors, market research, policy making, budgetary control, critical-path scheduling, value analysis, decision making by committee, personal responsibility, teamwork, step stressing and failure analysis. An overall look at a design project suggests that the use of modern design techniques leads to greater control and purpose, and prevents the needless waste of money and effort that can result from misdirection."
"The cartographer of the future may find that he will have to be as proficient in the handling of electronic equipment as in traditional map-making techniques. Teams in many countries are now working on automated cartographic systems which could satisfy the increasing demand for immediate and up-to-date maps in fields including atlas production, hydrographic surveys and meteorology."
"For a small or medium-sized company, the creation of a 'house-style', affecting not only the company's products but every aspect of its visual personality, can be an important step forward. In an age where matters of styling can account for a large part of the market superiority of a product, the industrial designer probably has as much to contribute to product design as the technologist."
"There can be few types of machine with so diverse an involvement In the development of electrical engineering as the inductor alternator. Simple mechanical design - the rotor need carry no windings - and flexible electrical characteristics have found the machine applications in widely differing fields. It has been used to generate powers ranging from watts to megawatts at frequencies of 20 Hz-200 kHz, and it enjoyed a fast rise to popularity. Its subsequent history, however, has been one of changing fortunes."
"A brief study of the generic features of science and of man's patterns of behaviour shows that there is scope for the establishment of a science in the field of human values. An essential premise to the argument is that there can be an absolute form of contingence without absolute determination of the actual course of events, the law of nature providing alternative consequences depending on the subject's choice of action."
"The time is rapidly approaching when all weather forecasts will be based on numerical charts produced at a central office and distributed by a facsimile process to subsidiary forecasting offices, where the forecaster will add information on the local weather. Relieved of much of the effort involved in the plotting and drawing of charts, the forecaster will have more time for interpretation of his data and for presentation of information to the customer."
"Probably the ultimate achievement in simulating human operation is the creation of an artificial intelligence. At present, artificial-intelligence research has revealed aspects of human ignorance, particularly in the fields of linguistics and psychology. In the future, it is desired to produce machines which can translate languages, recognise printed letters and, most important of all, possess a capacity for self improvement."
"The requirements for present-day protection and control schemes for power systems are more stringent than ever before. Mathematical logic principles aid the design of interlocking, sequential-switching and protective-relaying schemes."
"The use of modular techniques has enabled a large elongator-mill drive to be converted to thyristor control with resultant savings in size, complexity, reliability and maintenance."
"In this historical description, Dr. Whitney recalls some of the events that led up to a successful breakthrough in air-blast circuit breaking by a team of ERA researchers in the 1920s. A further article will tell how several stumbling blocks were overcome, how the project narrowly escaped disaster and how the race against a foreign inventor was narrowly won."
"Technological achievements in the electricity-supply distribution industry have been dominant in the past and may well influence the future, but the climate today is right for a direct contribution by management and labour, and there is a large field of endeavour awaiting development. Developments in organisation and in labour utilisation would have a major effect on the industry; to be successful, major changes involving labour must be introduced at the right time, depending in varying degrees on development of management techniques and on the climate of opinion both inside and outside the industry. The introduction of work study and a very different tempo of life, which might have been unthinkable a few years ago, are readily being adopted today, and the spirit with which changes are now accepted is most encouraging and underlines the importance of human relations."
"It is sometimes said that the United Kingdom is rather good at fundamental research and rather bad at applying and exploiting the results of it in industry. Such statements engender thoughts of drastically altering the balance between academic and industrial research and even of eroding the position that the United Kingdom has achieved; but this will not happen without a big struggle on the part of those who have had to argue the case for the necessary financial support for fundamental research."
"A new range of impulse-testing equipment embodies a new type of enclosed spark gap, and enables voltages up to 6 MV to be achieved in gradual stages."
"The modern trend in industry is towards the replacement of simple, reliable, but manually involved procedures by electronic techniques, as soon as the reliability of the latter becomes adequate and they become reasonably competitive. The data highway is one example: it uses time-division-multiplex techniques to reduce operations involving long and costly manual procedures, and is likely to change many of the conventional methods of instrumenting a major plant."
"Recognising the growing need for a fast and versatile machine to handle the output from high-speed data-processing systems, Standard Telecommunication Laboratories, Harlow, Essex, has developed the Ferrodot magnetic printing process. Most of the disadvantages suffered by existing high-speed printers have been eliminated, and, since the processes of character selection and symbol forming are performed by conventional electronic logic circuits, it can be expected that the upper limit of operating speed will advance in step with future progress in electronic logic."
"In recent years, industrialised-building techniques have developed to the extent where the time required to construct the main framework and shell of a building is far exceeded by the time required to install the internal electrical services and fittings. To rectify this undesirable situation, pre-fabricated and pre-packaged complete wiring systems are marketed; they are intended to increase the productivity of the available labour force to enable it to keep pace with the increasing rate of building construction."
"In the past 20 years, electrical methods of propelling space vehicles have developed from the speculative stage to practical reality. While it is inconceivable that electric thrustors could be used as rocket launchers, once in orbit electric propulsion is particularly suited to missions where a source of electric power is also required for some other function."
"A sound understanding of the elementary principles of physics is a necessary basis for the study of most branches of science and engineering. Of all school subjects, physics is the one which can show most clearly the interdependence of theory and experiment which is so fundamental to technology. In a large number of schools, it is the subject which is most closely related to engineering. If, as is usual, a schoolboy is not taught engineering subjects as such, his ideas about the interest, opportunities and difficulties of technological studies are likely to be influenced most strongly by his physics teachers. Thus the teaching of physics greatly affects the understanding of those pupils who become technologists, and is often a determining influence in their choice of career."
"As announced on p. 83, the Council of the IEE, at its meeting on the 4th January 1968, made the 46th award of the Faraday Medal to L.H. Bedford, for his outstanding contributions to the advancement of electronics engineering, and for his inspiring leadership, both in war and in peace, of the industrial design and development teams by which these and other advances have been consolidated and effectively applied. At the same time, the Council elected to Honorary Fellowship Lord Jackson of Burnley, for his outstanding contributions to science and technology in the fields of research and education, and in recognition of his services to the nation as an advisor to Government on these matters and on the related aspects of manpower and its deployment."
"Owing to the popularity of air conditioning, many American electrical utilities have their peak loads in summer, and this has led to the promotion of electric space heating. The growth of this heat load has been accompanied by consumer dissatisfaction resulting from poor temperature control, attributed to a lack of interest in such practical control problems as thermostat design by control-engineering schools in the United States. This situation is changing with the current swing towards practical control problems in US engineering schools."
"The process of printing a colour reproduction from an original colour picture Is a sophisticated operation involving physics, chemistry and engineering, as well as photography, physiology and even psychology. The three main stages In the process - colour separation, plate production and printing - formerly involved considerable manual work or manual intervention, and part of the work was in fact carried out by craftsmen trained and referred to as artists. Modern electronic, photographic and other techniques have brought about changes in the process - changes which have resulted in better control and higher productivity."
"A rapid expansion is expected of the applications in which electrochemical devices will find a role in the future. The increased interest in electrochemistry and the use of modern research and development methods will produce more devices of technological importance. Changes in voltage, conductance, ionic concentration, current, and deposition or dissolution rates are some of the parameters that can be used for device applications. The combined efforts of the engineer and the electrochemist can utilise these effects to great advantage in producing new systems."
"The superconducting homopolar motor recently developed by the International Research & Development Co. represents the first economically viable industrial application of superconductivity, and incorporates novel design features that may have great significance in the design of motors for use at normal temperatures."
"As automation systems become more complex, so it becomes more necessary to adopt technically sophisticated methods of communicating with the operator, thereby simplifying his task. Cathode-ray-tube displays now form the basis of many such man-machine communication systems."
"Recent research at Imperial College, London, has eliminated many of the disadvantages inherent in earlier designs for flat, thin television tubes, and may lead to the development of a flat colour-television tube comparable in price to a conventional colour tube."
"Britain's National Computing Centre has a catalytic function in providing a focal point for collaborative projects by existing organisations and in collaborative development activities. It also carries out work that nobody else wishes to touch (usually because it is unprofitable) and provides a market-place for the commercial interchange of know how and facilities."
"Although the Ward Leonard drive system is familiar to most engineers, its special features are not always appreciated. When the system was first introduced in America 75 years ago, it was the subject of fierce criticism, and its early development for mine-winding and rolling-mill drives owes much to pioneering activities in Europe. Modern methods enable faster responses to be achieved, but no drive has shown itself more suitable than the Ward Leonard scheme for the purpose for which it was invented."
"The IEE Council has authorised the issue of thefirst set of amendments to the 14th edition of the IEE wiring regulations, which took effect as from the 1st March 1968. The amendments are occasioned mainly by the issue of new and revised British standards, and the main changes they introduce concern classes of excess-current protection, 250-V mineral-insulated cables, cable materials, butyl-rubber-insulated cables and glass-fibre-insulated flexible cords. The opportunity has also been taken to bring up to date a number of other references to British standards and codes of practice. The regulations with 1968 amendments have been approved by the UK Minister of Power and the Secretary of State for Scotland for their purposes, including those of the Electricity Supply Regulations, 1937, and the Buildings Standards (Scotland) Regulations, 1963-67. Copies of the 1968 amendments, which need to be read in conjunction with the text of the 14th edition (1966), may be obtained from the Secretary of the IEE; price 3s. post free."
"Engineers unfamiliar with data processing may well ask why anyone should wish to read printed characters by machine. Punched paper tape, for instance, is far more compatible with machine language, and can be read with much greater speed and accuracy. However, the reasons for requiring character-recognition machines are well established. This article describes the approach of one manufacturer to the problem of designing character-recognition machines for general-purpose use."
"In rural areas of Britain, where, for the foreseeable future, electricity supplies must depend very largely on overhead lines, continuous supplies safe from breakdown caused by natural hazards such as lightning, gales and the like are not a practicable possibility; even the provision of alternative sources of supply to the same degree that is normal in urban areas would be so prohibitively expensive as to be commercially unacceptable. The challenge, therefore, is to balance capital cost with reliability, low running cost, and ease and cheapness of maintenance."
"Perhaps the most sensible approach to the complex problem of engineering education is first to focus attention on the nature of the 'engineering mission', and then to direct any efforts to educating individuals toward its fulfilment. Engineering involves such a wide range of human endeavour that it demands diversity and innovation in the preparation of its practitioners. Engineering effort can be divided into three major categories: engineering technology, engineering practice, and engineering science."
"The 14th International Electrical Engineers' Exhibition, organised by the Association of Supervising Electrical Engineers, is being held at Earl's Court, London, from the 27th March to the 3rd April 1968. This feature is not intended to be a comprehensive review of all the products and exhibitors at the exhibition; it is intended merely to highlight some of the newer items on show. Other new items will be featured in our 'New products' columns in subsequent months."
"Although the sound-reproducing chain - from the recording to the loudspeaker - can be only as strong as its weakest link, the effects of deficiencies in pickups and loudspeakers can often be minimised by a good amplifier with comprehensive controls; but a poor amplifier will introduce imperfections which cannot be cured."
"A company with business based on a changing technology must support research in every field that is likely to affect its future, and product and process development should be considered to be part of manufacture. However, if the responsibility for initiating development is put with research departments, they will usually waste effort on projects that are technically sound but cannot be commercially exploited, and, if the responsibility is left with manufacturing or commercial departments, they will fail to start work on anything of uncertain outcome. In order to succeed, a company must find men who can appreciate both points of view."
"Modern machine theory has been developed to deal with motors and generators of cylindrical shape in which the conductors of both rotor and stator are contained in slots, and in which the airgap is an extremely small part of the magnetic circuit. As a result, the prediction of the performance of devices in which a large part of the magnetic path is through air is extremely difficult, but an imaginative use of the shaded-pole principle can be used to indicate, at least qualitatively, what will happen."
"A slotless winding system for turbogenerators, recently proposed by Prof. E.J. Davies of the University of Aston in Birmingham, may prove the only feasible solution to the problems involved in designing 2-3 GW machines, and is expected to result in big savings in cost and improvements in efficiency for smaller machines."
"The merits of the inductive voltage divider are well known in the field of voltage measurement. Current comparators are analogous devices; they are highly accurate current transformers which can measure the ratio of two currents with an uncertainty ol better than one part in 106. Furthermore, this high accuracy is built in, being provided by the turns ratio. D.C. as well as a.c. measurements are possible."
"The short-term difficulty for manufacturers and users of cables and equipment where there may be a choice of either aluminium or copper is not so much any constant price differential as the wild fluctuations of copper-price level, which make the calculation of the economy of designs of aluminium alternatives fluctuate. In the long term, however, it seems clear that we may expect the cost of conductivity when using copper to be at least three times the cost of conductivity when using aluminium."
"For much of his work, the 'scientific engineer' needs to think in terms of abstract concepts rather than concrete devices, and from this point of view his natural language is mathematics, It therefore follows that mathematics should occupy a major place in the engineer's college syllabus. Furthermore, the mathematics that engineering students study should include not only high-level conventional engineering mathematics but also a basic training in 'modern algebra'. The latter is necessary both to develop the student's capacity to think in generalised abstract teems and to develop his facility to use certain aspects of modern algebra as a working tool for his engineering work"
"John Hopkinaon, in his IEE presidential address In 1896, proposed that the IEE should take steps to enable members to give their services in the most effective way to the armed forces for the defence of Britain. As a result, the Electrical Engineers, Royal Engineers (Volunteers) Corps was formed In 1897 with Dr. Hopkinson as its commanding officer. The corps saw active service in the Boer War, the 1914-18 War and the 1939-45 War. In common with other UK territorial units, it was finally disbanded in March 1967."
"In Britain, automation will bring about a complete change in management and worker attitudes; it will change the skills which industry needs and cause everybody to reconsider their conventional ideas of work, payment for work and working hours. The result should be a higher standard of general prosperity, which will have to be shared by everyone and not confined to the elite in sophisticated industry. Community life will be changed, not only as a result of higher standards and greater leisure, but also because of the use of automation in everyday life."
"The effects and implications of the forthcoming change to the metric system of weights and measures will have a great impact on the design function in the electrical industry. This change is a challenge and creates an opportunity for a fundamental rethinking of many traditional design philosophies. It affords opportunities for increased efficiency not only in the design function but also in other areas such as planning, buying and manufacturing."
"Although the mechanism of the Josephson effect in superconductors cannot be explained in familiar terms, its range of applications in electronic devices could be enormous if the technological difficulties involved in realising Josephson junctions are overcome. For some special applications Josephson junctions are already in a class of their own; in the future they may form the basis of entire computers and communication systems."
"As competitive pressures mount in manufacturing industries (including the electrical-engineering industry), the exploration of scientific approaches to marketing management claims greater attention. It is hoped that an outline of some of the techniques that have been tried and found useful in this field will stimulate experiment, not only in marketing fields but also in other fields where perhaps there are unsuspected potential applications."
"Experiments in the past decade have proved that people actually need to dream. It may even be that we sleep just so that we can dream. What, then, is the purpose of dreams - the classification and retention or rejection of the day's experiences? This article proposes an analogy between dreaming and the 'running-through' of computer programs"
"The rise and fall of transport systems depend on many different factors. The stagecoach, the railways, public road transport and the private car have all held sway at different times and for different reasons. Future transport systems will require radically new approaches and systems to prevent cities being swamped by motorcars."
"The transformer has attained a high degree of sophistication since Faraday and his contemporaries experimented with massive pieces of iron and miles of wire. However, neither the basic materials nor the fundamental design have seen much change in the past 50 years."
"Since the 17th Century, Britain has been in the forefront of telecommunication development, to the extent that today, in the fieId of submarine commuimication systems for example, there are over 33,000 nautical miles of British submarine telephone cables completed or under construction. Most of the cables are part of the intra-Commonwealth communication system, and include over 1,500 repeaters - about half of the world total."
"Patents are necessary in a modern industrial community to encourage research and development, to reward individual inventors or companies, and to ensure the rapid spread of information on new techniques and products. A healthy patent system enables the engineer to obtain the full advantages from his inventions, and is invaluable in providing him with an accurate record of the latest techniques available."
"In the last 15 years, the speeds of the fastest central computer processors have increased at least 100 times, the speeds of peripherals have increased perhaps ten times, and the speed of the human users' response to ihe computer's challenge has not increased at all. These speed differentials will continue to pose difficult problems in the development of computer design and use. The continued rapid development of electronics equipment thus provides a sustained stimulus, but one that is subjected to mechanical and to human constraints."
"It is not generally realised that Norway is a modern prosperous industrialised country with a greater per-capita gross national product than that of Britain. The mountainous terrain has been exploited by means of hydroelectric schemes to achieve the cheapest and most plentiful supply of electricity in the world."
"Because some members and prospective members of the IEE find difficulty in interpreting the 'responsible-experience' clause of Bylaw 12 of the membership regulations, the Membership Committee invited the authors to try to explain, from their past experience of membership matters, the principles involved. Nevertheless, the committee feels that it must state that it cannot be bound by individual interpretations that may be put on particular phrases in this article, because so much depends on individual circumstances, as the article explains."
"Many visitors to the international Instruments, Electronics & Automation Exhibition in London in May 1968 were impressed by what they saw on the Finland stand, where ten Finnish firms were exhibiting their wares. In this article, Electronics & Power gives a brief survey of the Finnish electrical and electronics industries, based on impressions gained from the IEA exhibitors and from a recent visit to Finland."
"There are over two million known organic compounds, and most of these are generally considered by engineers to be electrical insulators. In recent years, however, an increasing number of organic compounds have been found to exhibit electronic conductivity in the solid state. Some hundred thousand compounds can now be classified as organic semiconductors; they differ from the conventional semiconductors and possess properties which indicate future possible engineering applications."
"There is general agreement that human factors are now the main causal source of traffic accidents. It follows that major improvements in road safety can be obtained only if vehicle manufacturers and the administrators of road-transport systems are prepared to give a higher priority than is given at present to the achievement of an acceptable match between the characteristics of man, machine and environment."
"The advent of the transistor and, more recently, the thyristor has created wide interest in circuit designs and techniques for static invertors, with their advantages over conventional rotating machines. The increasing interest in fields of application such as fluorescent lighting and electric vehicles is accelerating their design and development for use at higher power ratings with greater reliability."
"The largest power station in Scotland in service at present was officially opened by the UK Secretary of State for Scotland, the Rt. Hon. W. Ross, on the 24th May 1968."
"Value analysis, value engineering and value assurance are not just gimmicks; they are real and effective methods of reducing costs and improving profits. They differ from conventional methods of cost saving (which in many cases merely result in performances being degraded to lower costs) in that, when properly applied, they result in products which are better, simpler and more reliable."
"It has become fashionable to say that all electrical engineers, or at least those specialising in communication engineering, ought to be familiar with the basic ideas of quantum mechanics. In view of the ever-increasing load of university teaching, is this statement justified, and, if so, why? A reasonable case for the teaching of quantum mechanics to engineers can be made, and some simple ideas and mental analogies can be developed which may prove to be of use to electrical engineers."
"In a world in which engineering, technology and science play an increasingly dominant role, the prosperity of Britain, with its limited natural resources, depends more than ever before on the skill of its population. The proper education, training and optimum utilisation of its manpower are vital. There is strong evidence for anxiety in the recruitment, supply and use of scientists, technologists and engineers who create the knowledge and organise the human effort required for the successful exploitation of this knowledge in industry and commerce, on which Britain's whole economy depends."
"Because some members and prospective members of the IEE find difficulty in interpreting the 'responsible-experience' clause of bylaw 12 of the membership regulations, the Membership Committee invited the authors to try to explain, from their past experience of membership matters, the principles involved. Nevertheless, the committee feels that it must state that it cannot be bound by individual interpretations that may be put on particular phrases in this article, because so much depends on individual circumstances, as the article explains."
"In spite of the Second World War and other factors that delayed commercial development of gas-blast breakers in Britain for nearly two decades, the influence of the invention and its advantages, for which the ERA saw a great future, are becoming more and more apparent up to the highest voltages and ratings."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Provides a listing of current society officers."
"Advertisement."
"Provides a listing of current society officers."
"Advertisement."
"Presents recent technologies and trends in the engineering and computer industries."
"Reports on news of interest to IEEE members, including upcoming meetings and events, industry news, and recent IEEE member obituaries."
"Advertisement."
"Provides a listing of upcoming events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Advertisement."
"Provides news relating to engineering and computing industry leaders, practitioners and researchers."
"Advertisement."
"Recounts the career and contributions of IEEE members who passed away in 1968."
"Presents a biographical entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
"From April 30 to May 2 of this year, the 1968 Spring Joint Computer Conference, sponsored by the IEEE Computer Group and the American Federation of Information Processing Societies (AFIPS), presented 21 technical sessions designed to provide a broad view of the latest developments in computer hardware, software, and applications. Included in the Atlantic City, N.J., meeting was a special panel, chaired by Dr. I. E. Fang, formed to discuss the advances made by the computing, communications, and broadcasting industries that have made it possible to predict the outcome of elections, based in part on returns from a limited number of preselected areas. The four presentations of this session are given here, and include, as an illustration, an overview of the design and operation of the election reporting system now being used by the American Broadcasting Company in this critical election year."
"``How do we go about understanding brains?'' That was the fundamental question confronting the session, ``To Understand Brains. . . ,'' at the 1968 IEEE International Convention. This report on the views of eight session participants shows a strong consensus on three major points: first, that the popular analogy between brains and computers is ill-taken and perhaps misleading; second, that very little is understood about nervous system function, despite the accumulation of seas of data, and that present understanding is relatively restricted to events in the peripheral sensory systems; third, that the epistemological problem-what is really meant by ``understanding'' the nervous system-is especially difficult with respect to the staggering complexities in a system composed of ten billion cells, each of which might be regarded as a kind of hybrid microcomputer in itself. The cry for new concepts of the nervous system was especially strong, and though the participants did not regard the endeavor to understand brains as absolutely hopeless, their stress on the magnitude of the problems made their ``realistic'' appraisals seem quite pessimistic."
"Optical processing of information has been understood in principle for nearly a century, but it has found little practical use thus far except in the earth and space sciences. This article describes briefly the advantages and principles of optical data processing through transformation and frequency filtering, and gives some elementary examples of the handling of pictorial information in the fields of oil prospecting, spacecraft photography, and weather satellites. Substantial advances in the capability of optical systems for handling such information are foreseen."
"Favorable sites for utility power stations are becoming more difficult to obtain due to the demands of other industries and urban developments. A utility must plan for generating facilities long in advance of the time they are needed to meet system load growth. A major problem will be to find sufficient sites for the required generating facilities to meet the system demands. Successful planning must consider the types and sizes of generating equipment to come. The author looks into the future to forecast the unit and plant sizes for which plans must be made in the next 20 years."
"Advertisement."
"For all practical purposes, the first successful application of electric railway traction dates back to 1879, when Dr. Werner von Siemens' grotesque little locomotive (Fig. 1) hauled passengers around the grounds of an exposition site in Berlin. In 1881, the first public railway service was inaugurated in that city. By 1883, the first part of Magnus Volk's electric railway at Brighton, England, was completed; and, by 1890, the City & South London Railway began service as England's first underground system. Because of the generally smaller geographic areas of most European countries, the availability of hydro power (in alpine regions), and the lag in modern highway programs, both Europe and Great Britain have been more dependent on their railway systems-even to the present time- than the United States. Thus the trend has been toward complete electrification of rail lines in Italy, Germany, Switzerland, and Austria. In Great Britain, however, the emphasis is equally upon diesel-electric traction; and this form of tractive power has found some favor on the Continent."
"The instrumentation requirements for nuclear testing are particularly stringent because of the nature of the transients involved and because of the distance at which instrumentation must be placed. Presently used high-quality transmission lines are not capable of nanosecond performance where cable runs of approximately 1000 meters are concerned. Experimental data from the U.S. Atomic Energy Commission's Nevada Test Site show that 30-ns rise times are attainable for a superconductive cable 7620 meters long. Although the performance of conventional cables (normal conductors) can be improved by low-temperature operation, superconductive cables operated at the same temperature offer bandwidths 100 times greater."
"When a government agency purchases materials and equipment, it is required by law to accept bids from all qualified sources, except in cases of emergency. If the products are of equal quality, the agency must then buy from the lowest bidder, whether he be domestic or foreign. It is obvious that the utility industry in general, and the Tennessee Valley Authority in particular, rely heavily on European and Japanese manufacturers for a large percentage of their equipment needs. Price and delivery schedules are important factors; and the quality of products purchased abroad has generally been equal to or better than the comparable domestic product."
"Highlights technical articles and features presented in various current IEEE periodicals."
"A list of IEEE publications abstracted in this issue is given. The publications will be available in the near future. Only abstracts of the articles are provided herein."
"Advertisement."
"Translation of several non-English-language journals are sponsored by IEEE, Advance tables of contents of forthcoming translated issues and reviews of selected papers from recently translated issues appear here. Subscription rates and additional information are available from IEEE Subscriber Relations."
"Advertisement."
"Reports on new technologies and trends in the industry."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement of available employment opportunities."
"Advertisement."
"Listing of advertisers represented in this issue."
"Advertising restricted to professional engineering and consulting services."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Provides a listing of current society officers."
"Advertisement."
"Provides a listing of current society officers."
"Advertisement."
"Presents recent technologies and trends in the engineering and computer industries."
"Reports on news of interest to IEEE members, including upcoming meetings and events, industry news, and recent IEEE member obituaries."
"Advertisement."
"Provides a listing of upcoming events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Advertisement."
"Provides news relating to engineering and computing industry leaders, practitioners and researchers."
"Advertisement."
"Recounts the career and contributions of IEEE members who passed away in 1968."
"Presents a biographical entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
"The energy picture in the United States, through the year 1985, is outlined in this article. The forecasts made are based on a number of factors, including economics, present and future estimates of fuel availability, relative plant size, transportation, and air pollution considerations. On a national basis, it is predicted that the consumption of all forms of raw energy for electric generation will increase substantially from now to 1985, with nuclear energy exhibiting the most dramatic absolute and relative gains."
"Loran-C navigational transmissions, at a frequency of 100 kHz, can be used to provide clock synchronization over long distances to accuracies within ±1 μs. Results to date represent improvements as great as three magnitudes over other operational long-range radio systems. This article discusses the timing capabilities of Loran-C and illustrates the techniques that are used for the derivation of time and frequency."
"Today, the primary motive power unit employed by U.S. railroads is the diesel engine. The steam locomotive has been phased out, and the use of electric traction has declined markedly. Until recently, the trend was against the further extension of electrified operation because of high initial costs. Further, the diesel locomotive can be operated throughout a railway system-in both electrified and nonelectrified zones. Now, however, with the advent of extensive electric power grids, rectifier locomotives, and ambitious plans for extensive rapid-transit systems, electrified operation has obtained a new lease on life. Signal system development has brought notable improvement in railroad safety and operations. Most important in this category is centralized train control, by means of which a single tower can control all switches and signals over more than a thousand kilometers of mainline track. And with automatic train stop equipment and speed control, a train running through a stop signal or exceeding a speed limit can be electronically stopped or slowed, thereby eliminating the possibility of human failure. Two-way radio communications have done much to expedite freight-train operations. Many locomotives, cabooses, and signal towers are equipped to permit train conductors to talk to engineers or tower personnel, and to receive orders while en route."
"Advertisement."
"To assure reliability of electric power, it is essential to have effective transmission and adequate interconnections, adherence to operating limitations, and recognition that, in spite of all that can be done, there is always the chance that an unforeseen contingency will cause system separation and possibly generator deficiency. The first consideration requires system studies to demonstrate that no single disturbance will cause cascading tripouts of lines or generators; the second may be facilitated by automatic monitoring of the system condition; the third requires automatic load shedding on low frequency."
"Many people think that the future of international communications lies only in the expansion and refinement of satellite facilities. However, cable and radio continue to play vital roles in the overall telecommunications picture. In the long run, the resultant mix of satellites, cables, and other forms of communication will be determined by what each form does best-and at what cost."
"VITA, as a Latin word, means life; as a name it represents one of the most unusual voluntary services of contemporary times. Volunteers for International Technical Assistance fulfills an essential need in the field of foreign aid by supplying technical information to such groups as the Peace Corps,1 The Agency for International Development, and the International Executive Service Corps (IESC)."
"The first of a series of articles by an authority on the history of electronics traces the descent of that branch of technology from one of its parent sciences, electromagnetics. The work of Hertz and the beginnings and development of radiotelegraphy after the flowering of the other parent science, electron theory, will be the subjects of future articles in the series."
"Highlights technical articles and features presented in various current IEEE periodicals."
"A list of IEEE publications abstracted in this issue is given. The publications will be available in the near future. Only abstracts of the articles are provided herein."
"Translation of several non-English-language journals are sponsored by IEEE, Advance tables of contents of forthcoming translated issues and reviews of selected papers from recently translated issues appear here. Subscription rates and additional information are available from IEEE Subscriber Relations."
"Advertisement of available employment opportunities."
"Reports on new technologies and trends in the industry."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Listing of advertisers represented in this issue."
"Advertising restricted to professional engineering and consulting services."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Provides a listing of current society officers."
"Advertisement."
"Provides a listing of current society officers."
"Advertisement."
"Presents recent technologies and trends in the engineering and computer industries."
"Reports on news of interest to IEEE members, including upcoming meetings and events, industry news, and recent IEEE member obituaries."
"Advertisement."
"Provides a listing of upcoming events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Advertisement."
"Provides news relating to engineering and computing industry leaders, practitioners and researchers."
"Advertisement."
"Recounts the career and contributions of IEEE members who passed away in 1968."
"Presents a biographical entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
"Men communicate with each other by natural language and with machines by computer language. Building a bridge between these forms of communication has proved difficult, possibly because of misunderstandings about the nature and use of each kind of language. This article points out that until people succeed in storing in a computer considerable areas of human experience, they are not likely to make a computer interact usefully with natural language."
"Although early efforts to propel railway vehicles by primitive batteries date back as far as 1835, the first successful application of electric traction probably occurred in 1879, when a locomotive designed by Dr. Werner von Siemens was operated at an exhibition in Berlin. This priority may be in some dispute, however, since Thomas Edison experimented with an electric locomotive at about the same date, and Steven D. Field was also testing such a device at this point in time. George Westinghouse, the genius of American railways, was another pioneer in this developmental effort. The story of railway electrification is one of epic proportions both in the United States and elsewhere. The first installment of this three-part series is concerned with the historical development of electric railway systems in the United States up to the present time. The second chapter will discuss the advent of the diesel locomotives and their impact upon electrification, automatic signal and safety features, and the present and future prospects for the electrification of proposed rapid transit systems. The final installment will deal with the development of the European systems."
"The first part of this article, which appeared in the June issue, described the nature of infrared scanners and the results of some satellite IR experiments. In this concluding installment, the parametric relationships between the scanner and the spacecraft are set forth. The suborbital velocity/altitude ratio is fixed for a satellite in a circular orbit. Thus, such parameters as coverage, resolution, and scan rate can be expressed in terms of altitude. Since the signal-to-noise ratio of the sensor output is also a function of many of these same parameters, an evaluation of the IR system performance can be made. Equations are developed for relating the sensor, the mission, and the spacecraft in terms of an overall IR system."
"Advertisement."
"An outstanding educator in the field of electrical engineering expresses his concern over the trend to distort modern engineering curricula into a virtual maze of mathematics and theory. The practical aspects of electrical engineering are being neglected, since there is not enough time for both practical work and theory. To paraphrase, an expert on energy conversion theory could freeze to death in a lumberyard because he doesn't know how to light a fire. The editors of Spectrum have endeavored to present Professor Moore's thoughts, first expressed to the 2nd Canadian Conference on Electrical Engineering, in his own words and in his own style."
"In order to meet future earth-to-space communication needs, new regions of the electromagnetic spectrum must be utilized. This article discusses the feasibility of using the millimeter-wave region. It is shown, for example, that for clear-sky conditions the effects of the atmosphere on propagation at frequencies of 15 and 35 GHz are very small. However, the attenuation increases significantly under conditions of heavy cloud cover and precipitation. On the basis of these results it is evident that atmospheric attenuation is sufficiently low in selected regions of the millimeter-wavelength spectrum to permit wideband earth-to-space communications with moderate reliability. For high reliability the high attenuation due to heavy rainfall must be overcome either by the use of space diversity techniques or by locating the ground terminal in a dry climate."
"When black-and-white television receivers using cathode-ray tubes were introduced to the consumer public, measurements verified that, with the voltages and currects needed for satisfactory pictures, the externally emitted X radiation was indeed negligible. Color receivers, with much higher voltages and currents, led to a re-examination of the problem. Again, it was found that proper design could produce a bright picture with negligible radiation. In the past two years, however, some unusual events, reported experiments, and surveys involving color receivers have been widely publicized in the lay press-resulting in a major controversy with respect to the existence of radiation hazards. In an effort to free the subject from political overtones and from what has appeared to some as ``sensational journalism,'' the National Center for Radiological Health joined the Electronic Industries Association in sponsoring a special measurements conference, reported herein, which represents a first step toward complete examination of the X-radiation problem."
"Advertisement."
"Highlights technical articles and features presented in various current IEEE periodicals."
"A list of IEEE publications abstracted in this issue is given. The publications will be available in the near future. Only abstracts of the articles are provided herein."
"Advertisement."
"Translation of several non-English-language journals are sponsored by IEEE, Advance tables of contents of forthcoming translated issues and reviews of selected papers from recently translated issues appear here. Subscription rates and additional information are available from IEEE Subscriber Relations."
"Advertisement."
"Reports on new technologies and trends in the industry."
"Advertisement of available employment opportunities."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Listing of advertisers represented in this issue."
"Advertising restricted to professional engineering and consulting services."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Provides a listing of current society officers."
"Advertisement."
"Provides a listing of current society officers."
"Presents recent technologies and trends in the engineering and computer industries."
"Advertisement."
"Reports on news of interest to IEEE members, including upcoming meetings and events, industry news, and recent IEEE member obituaries."
"Advertisement."
"Provides a listing of upcoming events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Advertisement."
"Provides news relating to engineering and computing industry leaders, practitioners and researchers."
"Advertisement."
"Recounts the career and contributions of IEEE members who passed away in 1968."
"Presents a biographical entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
"The past two years have seen the acceptance of superconducting magnets for engineering installations, the development of more advanced and robust engineering materials than the earlier conductors, and the wider application of high-field superconducting magnets in development programs for high-energy physics and thermonuclear fusion research. Their principal advantage is the great saving in operating cost when used in large-volume magnets up to 3 teslas. At higher fields a further advantage is their lower capital cost as compared with that of conventional electromagnets. They also have the potential, not as yet realized, of being more compact than a conventional electromagnet of identical performance."
"Much planning for research and development of power system equipment to date has been on a short-term basis and has not taken into account the overall pattern for the industry. Long-range predictions, to the year 2030, are made in this article in order to help clarify the R&D picture and place the needs and times in proper perspective. A number of references are given, not to document in detail all significant predictions, but to show the trends of long-range thinking."
"The gap between the number of highly trained technical people and the positions to be filled is widening year by year. There has been much soul searching on the parts of the profession and of education as to where the fault lies, but one important reservoir of talent remains largely untapped-the woman engineer. This article examines the motivations of the woman who selects engineering as a career, and discusses her problems and potential in a field that has always been associated with the masculine image."
"Advertisement."
"This report on the First Annual Symposium of the newly formed American Society for Cybernetics describes the papers presented under three broad categories of purposive systems-man, machines, and men and machines together. The discussion ranges from purposive behavior at the level of genetic evolution to the purposive behavior of organisms as complex as modern society. In this period when the growth of technology threatens to overwhelm society, cybernetics is seen as a science offering the hope of solutions and of broader interdisciplinary and international communication."
"An experimental system being developed at Oklahoma State University represents the first phase of a research effort to formulate a model for optimizing an energy conversion and storage system. Some of the problems in providing energy storage as an alternative to added conversion capacity to meet peak demand are treated here. It is assumed that the conversion system is a steam or hydro plant with a controlled input as opposed to a solar or wind plant with a random input, although extension to the latter is possible."
"Out of the growing need to better man's grasp of the real world in today's technological revolution, game theory has emerged. It has given us a new tool upon which we can rely when decisions become difficult. The purpose of this article is to enlighten the reader about a problem with which he might never come in contact, but nevertheless one as important as he might ever encounter; namely, how to cope with the rapidly changing military warfare of our times-where thousands or millions of people's lives are in the balance. This discussion of gaming draws heavily upon the defense problem, and two methods are developed in defining solutions for the theoretical model."
"Advertisement of available employment opportunities."
"Highlights technical articles and features presented in various current IEEE periodicals."
"Advertisement."
"A list of IEEE publications abstracted in this issue is given. The publications will be available in the near future. Only abstracts of the articles are provided herein."
"Advertisement."
"Translation of several non-English-language journals are sponsored by IEEE, Advance tables of contents of forthcoming translated issues and reviews of selected papers from recently translated issues appear here. Subscription rates and additional information are available from IEEE Subscriber Relations."
"Advertisement."
"Reports on new technologies and trends in the industry."
"Advertisement of available employment opportunities."
"Advertisement."
"Listing of advertisers represented in this issue."
"Advertising restricted to professional engineering and consulting services."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Provides a listing of current society officers."
"Advertisement."
"Provides a listing of current society officers."
"Advertisement."
"Presents recent technologies and trends in the engineering and computer industries."
"Reports on news of interest to IEEE members, including upcoming meetings and events, industry news, and recent IEEE member obituaries."
"Advertisement."
"Provides a listing of upcoming events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Advertisement."
"Presents a biographical entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
"Advertisement."
"Recounts the career and contributions of IEEE members who passed away in 1968."
"Presents a biographical entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
"On 20 March 1968 at the International Convention, P.E. Haggerty was honored with the IEEE Founders Award. His acceptance speech, presented here, stresses the vital responsibilities imposed on electronic technology by a rapidly changing world."
"Topology and measure theory, along with other branches of mathemtics, are founded upon the theory of sets. The beginnings of the theory were steeped in paradoxes. One concerns the very concept of a set itself, such as proving that ``0 is ordinary if and only if it is not.'' The concepts have been debated for more than a century and from them have evolved the axiom of choice, axiom of selection, infinite set theory, well-ordering theorem, and the Banach-Tarski paradox, among others."
"Existing information retrieval systems, hardware and software for automated publication, and newly developed press and bindery equipment* are the precursors of ever more dramatic and sophisticated systems now in the R&D stages. For example, a fully automated web offset press could be in commercial production within the next few years. At the same time, there is a quiet revolution in bookbinding, based upon plastics technology, that is rendering obsolete conventional binding methods. The day is not far distant when almost completely automatic satellite plants will be operated for producing and distributing periodicals, indexes, catalogs, and books."
"The keynote speaker at the recent International Solid State Circuits Conference implements the basic theme of the conference by presenting an overview of the success achieved in the field of integrated electronics -and the problems remaining to be solved. He concentrates on three areas-digital, microwave, and consumer applications-because these best illustrate the successful implementation of the technology in the first case, and its possibilities, and problems, in the others."
"Advertisement."
"The requirement of high energy density for vehicle applications leads to the selection of battery systems made up of light, highly reactive metals found in the upper-left-hand corner of the periodic table for one electrode and the light oxidizers found in the top-right-hand corner of the periodic table for the other electrode. Many of these reactive materials will react with water and hence water-based electrolytes cannot be used in such systems. Electric vehicles also require the battery to have a high power density, which further limits the use of water-based electrolytes. The parameters relevant to achieving high-energy, high-power batteries are discussed in general terms and several systems presently being studied are reviewed."
"Although it would be naive to consider electronics as a panacea for urban ills, current and potential innovations in the electronics industry will aid in providing economically feasible answers to many of our cities' most pressing problems. At present, progress is being made in such areas as traffic control, police and fire communications and surveillance, air- and water-pollution control, and transit system routing."
"When lasers were new many people seemed to expect that this exciting development would rapidly revolutionize civilization. More than seven years have now passed since the advent of the first laser and the world has changed only slightly. As a result, it has been said that the laser is a solution in search of a problem. It is the purpose of this article to show that, in spite of comments to the contrary, there are some problems for which lasers are a solution. It is appropriate to do this now because the state of the art has reached the point at which useful energy and power outputs can be achieved with sufficiently high efficiency and reliability to make some applications practical. The emphasis here is on industrial and medical applications, as opposed to the many present and potential military applications. Despite the progress made during the past few years, much more research and development will be required before the full potential of lasers is realized."
"Advertisement."
"Highlights technical articles and features presented in various current IEEE periodicals."
"A list of IEEE publications abstracted in this issue is given. The publications will be available in the near future. Only abstracts of the articles are provided herein."
"Advertisement."
"Translation of several non-English-language journals are sponsored by IEEE, Advance tables of contents of forthcoming translated issues and reviews of selected papers from recently translated issues appear here. Subscription rates and additional information are available from IEEE Subscriber Relations."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Reports on new technologies and trends in the industry."
"Advertisement of available employment opportunities."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Listing of advertisers represented in this issue."
"Advertising restricted to professional engineering and consulting services."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Provides a listing of current society officers."
"Advertisement."
"Provides a listing of current society officers."
"Advertisement."
"Presents recent technologies and trends in the engineering and computer industries."
"Reports on news of interest to IEEE members, including upcoming meetings and events, industry news, and recent IEEE member obituaries."
"Advertisement."
"Provides a listing of upcoming events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Advertisement."
"Provides news relating to engineering and computing industry leaders, practitioners and researchers."
"Advertisement."
"RecoRecounts the career and contributions of IEEE members who passed away in 1968."
"Advertisement."
"Presents a biographical entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
"Three important parameters are among those governing the application of the many versatile sonar techniques. Penetration and resolution depend upon pulse length and frequency. The angle of the transducer is also important-a perpendicular beam will resolve geological strata, whereas a side-looking beam. will provide a \"relief map\" of the ocean terrain. Finally, several different types of transducers are available, both hull-mounted and towed, to provide the user with the best instrument for a specific application."
"By improving his communication with management, particularly his boss, the engineer can gain recognition, a better feeling for how he stands, more interesting assignments, and increased pay and advancement. He can tackle the physical, intellectual, experience, and psychological barriers to communication by applying three basic principles for effective communication: it requires thinking, involves both sending and receiving, and includes verbal and nonverbal devices. To apply these principles he should first think carefully about his objective and audience, and then select, simplify, and specify."
"Shortly after the development of radar some 25 years ago, it became apparent that bird movements were often discernible on radar screens. These ``radar angels'' in some cases are looked upon as clutter to be eliminated from the radar screen. However, they should be regarded as signals conveying valuable information, since birds can provide a real threat to aircraft, particularly in certain areas and at certain times of the year."
"Advertisement."
"This first part of a two-part article deals with the principles of infrared imaging and the applications of these principles. The second part, to appear in July, will discuss the systems of IR imaging and their relation to the spacecraft and mission. The general concept of imaging can best be understood in terms of the source and receiver of electromagnetic radiation, and the differences between an image made by reflected external illumination and by self-emitted luminance. There is then the problem of choosing an appropriate spectral region in terms of the maximum emitted energy, the transmission of the atmosphere, and the characteristics of the receiver scanning. This installment concludes with a review of satellite imaging experiments to date and a description of future applications of these techniques."
"In this article the author presents some suggestions as to how we may bring a systems approach to bear on analyzing-and perhaps optimizing-our problems in the broad areas of the geosphere, biosphere, technosphere, and sociosphere, in other words, in the complex world in which we live today. He points out that while we enjoy the advantages of the energy and information revolutions, we must make sure that the structures of our society are flexible enough to adapt to the impact of technological change."
"Highlights technical articles and features presented in various current IEEE periodicals."
"A list of IEEE publications abstracted in this issue is given. The publications will be available in the near future. Only abstracts of the articles are provided herein."
"Advertisement."
"Translation of several non-English-language journals are sponsored by IEEE, Advance tables of contents of forthcoming translated issues and reviews of selected papers from recently translated issues appear here. Subscription rates and additional information are available from IEEE Subscriber Relations."
"Reports on new technologies and trends in the industry."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement of available employment opportunities."
"Listing of advertisers represented in this issue."
"Advertising restricted to professional engineering and consulting services."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Provides a listing of current society officers."
"Advertisement."
"Provides a listing of current society officers."
"Advertisement."
"Presents recent technologies and trends in the engineering and computer industries."
"Readers are invited to comment in this department on material previously published in IEEE Spectrum; on the policies and operations of the IEEE; and on technical, economic, or social matters of interest to the electrical and electronics engineering profession. Short, concise letters are preferred. The Editor reserves the right to limit debate on controversial issues."
"Advertisement."
"Reports on news of interest to IEEE members, including upcoming meetings and events, industry news, and recent IEEE member obituaries."
"Advertisement."
"Provides a listing of upcoming events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Advertisement."
"Provides news relating to engineering and computing industry leaders, practitioners and researchers."
"Advertisement."
"Recounts the career and contributions of IEEE members who passed away in 1968."
"Presents a biographical entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
"The impetus given display, recording, computer, and space technologies by the revolutionary discovery of the laser has created an ever-increasing need for controlled optical-beam deflection techniques. Those that have been developed thus far, usually employing mechanical or acoustical methods, have had either high insertion loss or limitation on bandwidth. Electrooptic methods have not only overcome these problems, but have successfully met the demands of systems requiring aperiodic and rapid-access modes of operation. After the basic theory of optical deflection, resolution, and control are outlined, two experimental models of electrooptic beam deflectors, as well as the two major difficulties that have been encountered, are described."
"Twenty months after the Northeast blackout of November 9-10, 1965, the Federal Power Commission issued its three-volume report calling for the co-ordinated planning and operation of bulk power supply facilities to ensure maximum possible reliability and the prevention of future cascading tripouts and regional power failures. These and related guidelines are contained in 34 recommendations. As would be expected, the power industry, after evaluating this comprehensive report, may have some disparate reactions. A small sampling of these reactions by three investor-owned utilitiesߞand a federal systemߞis herein presented."
"In the March 1967 issue, SPECTRUM published an authoritative discussion on ``International Standards for Color Television'' and some not so authoritative remarks by the editor. Correspondence stimulated by this has been most interesting, and has revealed that there is much more heat than light left in the subject. Now we have an article by an outstanding spokesman for the NTSC system, followed by discussions solicited from a number of European experts, including one with a broad experience in the maintenance business. Hopefully, this exchange of views will clarify some points on this still-controversial subject, and help our South American members to reach a sensible conclusion for their area. Which is the best system? See if you can decide."
"Advertisement."
"Our previous article proposed a very broad evolving and ecological ``think,'' urging designers to begin considering new types of systems, some to incorporate artificial intelligence, to work for the enhancement of human powers. Here we describe some bases of that think, and attempt to join researches that, as they evolve, could form the ingredients of evolutionary systems. In the broadest sense, we attempt to interpret aspects of today's science and technology within the evolutionary framework, hoping to stimulate a dialogue among all kinds of system designers."
"Engineering involves such a wide range of human endeavor that it demands diversity and innovation in the preparation of its practitioners. Engineering effort can be divided into three major categories: engineering technology, engineering practice, and engineering science. The qualifications of individuals whose activities would fall into each of these mutually interdependent categories are examined, as are the problems involved in training these individuals."
"Despite the recent gains in silicon integrated circuit technology, further developments are necessary to provide lower costs, increased control capability, improvements in performance, and better overall understanding of the problems and potentials of this burgeoning field. The concept of optimum-scale integration is examined in detail."
"Advertisement."
"Highlights technical articles and features presented in various current IEEE periodicals."
"A list of IEEE publications abstracted in this issue is given. The publications will be available in the near future. Only abstracts of the articles are provided herein."
"Advertisement."
"Translation of several non-English-language journals are sponsored by IEEE, Advance tables of contents of forthcoming translated issues and reviews of selected papers from recently translated issues appear here. Subscription rates and additional information are available from IEEE Subscriber Relations."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Reports on new technologies and trends in the industry."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Listing of advertisers represented in this issue."
"Advertising restricted to professional engineering and consulting services."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Provides a listing of current society officers."
"Advertisement."
"Provides a listing of current society officers."
"Advertisement."
"Presents recent technologies and trends in the engineering and computer industries."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Reports on news of interest to IEEE members, including upcoming meetings and events, industry news, and recent IEEE member obituaries."
"Advertisement."
"Provides a listing of upcoming events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Advertisement."
"Provides news relating to engineering and computing industry leaders, practitioners and researchers."
"Advertisement."
"Recounts the career and contributions of IEEE members who passed away in 1968."
"Presents a biographical entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
"This article, along with the Convention Technical Program itself, is an innovation. It was written to explain the change in philosophy that underlies this year's meeting. The intent of the convention program planners was not just to add one more technical conference to the many already scheduled for 1968, but, instead, to provide something for the engineer's needs that is not available at those other meetings. In addition, there is included a description of the 49 technical sessions arranged in 12 groups."
"Measurements of the time delays and Doppler shifts of radar waves have been used to determine the orbits, radii, and rotation vectors of the inner planets and to improve by almost five orders of magnitude the accuracy of relating the Astronomical Unit to a terrestrial unit of length."
"Sir Charles Wheatstone did not actually invent the famous bridge circuit that perpetuates his name in technical lore and literature, but he did make many other important contributions to the technology. The present article outlines the life of this man of many talents and interests, with emphasis on his career as an inventor and scientist."
"This report on a panel discussion during a recent conference on speech research reveals some of the dominant problems of present speech investigations. Experts from diverse speech fields talked about the need for better models, the problem of finding applications of automatic speech recognition, the need for deeper studies of human speech perception, and the effects of context. The search for invariants in speech continues. Overall, the discussions reveal that there has come about, for both practical and theoretical reasons, a need to treat speech perception with the same emphasis that acoustic analyses and speech production are receiving.-N. L."
"Advertisement."
"Space plasmas and their unpredictable effects are objects of intensive study by NASA, the armed services, and participants in the International Geophysical Year investigations. There seems to be a direct correlation between solar hyperactivity and geomagnetic, as well as magnetotelluric, field fluctuations. Cosmic rays increase in intensity; and radio communications suffer. Various agencies are predicting an unusual increase in solar activity by the end of this year. What, if any, will be the observable result?"
"The vital role that electrical engineering departments must play in providing undergraduates with special competence in computer sciences is explored. Three related problem areas are discussed: (1) meeting the needs of students majoring in computer sciences in electrical engineering; (2) balancing the treatment of continuous and discrete systems so that students have a background in discrete systems comparable to that which they now acquire in continuous systems; and (3) realizing wider and more effective use of the digital computer as a tool for analysis and design in all engineering courses. Specific suggestions for meeting these needs are offered."
"Highlights technical articles and features presented in various current IEEE periodicals."
"A list of IEEE publications abstracted in this issue is given. The publications will be available in the near future. Only abstracts of the articles are provided herein."
"Translation of several non-English-language journals are sponsored by IEEE, Advance tables of contents of forthcoming translated issues and reviews of selected papers from recently translated issues appear here. Subscription rates and additional information are available from IEEE Subscriber Relations."
"Advertisement."
"Reports on new technologies and trends in the industry."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement of available employment opportunities."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Listing of advertisers represented in this issue."
"Advertising restricted to professional engineering and consulting services."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Provides a listing of current society officers."
"Advertisement."
"Provides a listing of current society officers."
"Advertisement."
"Presents recent technologies and trends in the engineering and computer industries."
"Reports on news of interest to IEEE members, including upcoming meetings and events, industry news, and recent IEEE member obituaries."
"Advertisement."
"Provides a listing of upcoming events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Advertisement."
"Provides news relating to engineering and computing industry leaders, practitioners and researchers."
"Recounts the career and contributions of IEEE members who passed away in 1968."
"Presents a biographical entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
"Applications of active and passive devices employing the characteristics of sound to obtain results have been known to investigators for many years. However, in addition to these sonar or pulse-echo methods of analysis, there exist a variety of techniques in which a sound image is obtained in a way more analogous to optics. This analogy has, in the last few years, been extended to include holographic techniques, and has led to the inception of a new discipline-acoustic holography. In this article, we trace the development of this new field as it originated from a fusion between ``conventional'' acoustic imaging and optical holography; and we see how, in the few years of its existence, it has already generated its own unique methods and problems."
"The Director of M.I.T.'s Project Transport takes us to the year 1993 to see what is expected to happen in the field of transportation in the next 25 years. From our vantage point in the future, we observe that the individual vehicle is still the most important mode of transport, although it is quite different from the automobile of 1968. For mass transportation there has been an attempt to upgrade conventional rail service but it has met with only moderate success, whereas the growth of the airlines has been phenomenal, as have been their problems."
"By the year 2000, Americans could have computers and robots in the home-and virtually no privacy. This prediction is part of the discussions of the Commission On The Year 2000, which were published in the summer issue of Daedalus, the Journal of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences.1 The implications of this technological attack on privacy are reflected in the increasing interest in the protection of this vital right. The computer-electronics industry has recognized this issue, and has addressed itself to it on many occasions, including many professional gatherings.2 Businessmen are also concerned with the inherent implications,3 and many governmental agencies are studying the possibility of controls of some type. The Federal Communications Commission, for example, has initiated a public inquiry into the computer-communications interface.4 One of the specific items of response to the FCC inquiry is ``privacy and security.''"
"To derive the greatest advantage from automation in the production of newspapers and books the present optical method of producing halftone dot patterns must be replaced by an electronic method. This article discusses developmental electronic-halftone techniques that use a high-resolution cathode-ray tube as the display device."
"Advertisement."
"Optical heterodyne detection presents some difficult problems, but for certain applications it offers considerable advantage over the more conventional detection methods. Some of these advantages and problems, and how they are affected by the transmission medium involved, are discussed in this article. Experimental evidence has shown that although heterodyne reception is not desirable at the end of long atmospheric transmission paths, it is entirely feasible for long paths that are enclosed to isolate them from atmospheric disturbances."
"Plotting the frequency versus the wave number provides a unifying way of permitting visualization of the linear dynamics of distributed systems. A series of simple examples is presented in order to illustrate the physical significance of ordinary and evanescent waves, absolute instability, waves on moving media, and convective instability or wave amplification. The examples give a rare opportunity to develop a complete physical and mathematical picture of the dynamics, since the presentation can serve as a guide to two films-produced by the Education Development Center for the National Committee on Electrical Engineering Films-in which the dispersion relation evolves by computer animation on the bottom half screen in synchronism with changes in the physical phenomenon in the top half screen."
"Highlights technical articles and features presented in various current IEEE periodicals."
"A list of IEEE publications abstracted in this issue is given. The publications will be available in the near future. Only abstracts of the articles are provided herein."
"Advertisement."
"Translation of several non-English-language journals are sponsored by IEEE, Advance tables of contents of forthcoming translated issues and reviews of selected papers from recently translated issues appear here. Subscription rates and additional information are available from IEEE Subscriber Relations."
"Advertisement."
"Reports on new technologies and trends in the industry."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement of available employment opportunities."
"Advertisement."
"Listing of advertisers represented in this issue."
"Advertising restricted to professional engineering and consulting services."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"A survey form covering the publication topics of most (or least) interest to readers."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Provides a listing of current society officers."
"Advertisement."
"Provides a listing of current society officers."
"Advertisement."
"Presents recent technologies and trends in the engineering and computer industries."
"Reports on news of interest to IEEE members, including upcoming meetings and events, industry news, and recent IEEE member obituaries."
"Advertisement."
"Provides a listing of upcoming events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Advertisement."
"Provides news relating to engineering and computing industry leaders, practitioners and researchers."
"Advertisement."
"Recounts the career and contributions of IEEE members who passed away in 1968."
"Advertisement."
"Presents a biographical entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
"There are three worlds of digital transmission-digital transmission as an area of academic research, in which theoretical limitations and complicated schemes of modulation and encoding play the starring role; digital transmission in exotic space and military applications, in which it is, or may seem to be, worthwhile to search through the noise in a huge bandwidth in order to receive a few bits per second; and the digital transmission of everyday bulk communication. This article is concerned with that third area, in which apparatus must be economical and reliable; in which the FCC limits the bandwidth we may use in radio transmission; in which the increase in attenuation with frequency limits the bandwidth it is practical to use in cable transmission; in which error rates should be low enough that error correction is an expedient that need be resorted to only in special situations."
"Advances in monolithic technology are broadening the applications areas in which integrated circuits are becoming economically feasible. This article demonstrates the design approaches that permit the realization of communication circuitry functions while simultaneously meeting the constraints imposed by MSI and LSI techniques."
"Realization of the vast hydro power and flood-control potential of the Columbia River, its tributaries, and watershed basin dates back more than half a century. As early as 1923, the U.S. Department of the Interior and the Army Corps of Engineers presented comprehensive testimony to the Congress on the feasibility of such eventual development. And, in 1937, B. E. Torpen, a hydroelectric engineer, presented to the ASCE an outline of the power possibilities of the Columbia River and its tributaries. This paper, entitled ``Where Rolls the Oregon,'' was an accurately prophetic blueprint for the optimum development of the Columbia River Basin over a 50-year period. In it, he anticipated the need for the Canadian Treaty to provide upstream storage and to interconnect the great hydro energy in the future of British Columbia. His dream and his pedictions are well on their way toward ultimate fulfillment."
"Advertisement."
"Many universities feature postgraduate programs intended to keep engineering executives technically updated, but these have proved to be only partially successful. Engineers in managerial positions are engrossed in their careers and personal lives; they frequently find returning to a campus environment uninspiring, inconvenient, and sometimes even distasteful. Universities often find it financially unfeasible to design specific programs geared to the varied, constantly changing needs of different industries. RCA's answer to this problem is Current Concepts in Science and Engineering, a program designed exclusively for top RCA personnel, taught by experts in specialized fields from within the company, and employing new approaches to presentation designed to impart the most information in the least amount of time."
"An array antenna can enlarge the capability of a radar system by contributing beam-pointing agility as well as providing a way of handling large power. The fundamental theory of such antennas was outlined in IEEE Spectrum exactly four years ago.1 Advances in the art have been so impressive that this month's Proceedings of the IEEE is a special issue on Electronic Scanning. The present article discusses the principles of operation and the most general applications of one very important class of array antennas."
"Ceramic filters offer a number of performance and compatibility advantages in solid-state consumer IF circuits; and they have recently become economically competitive with the conventional LC approach. This article surveys the different types of ceramic filters, as well as their properties and applications, including reports of some new network approaches regarding spurious suppression and application in integrated circuits."
"When a voltage across an insulating gas is increased beyond a certain limit, the gas breaks down, becoming a conductor of electricity. A photographic method, the Lichtenberg figure technique, is used to study the process. Above a certain voltage an ionization wave, called a streamer, proceeds from the highly stressed electrode, branching out along the way and extending far into low-field regions. At elevated voltages the vigorous streamers reach the cathode with a high-potential front. Owing to the front, the short-lived local field at the cathode triggers electron emission, also producing negative streamers. The negative streamers greatly increase the density of the ionized particles in the channel, yielding what is known as a backstroke. For long air gaps, streamers are incapable of reaching the cathode; intensive secondary channels therefore develop at the anode and proceed toward the cathode. Either the backstroke or the secondary channel paves the way for the full ionization of the channel and spark breakdown."
"Highlights technical articles and features presented in various current IEEE periodicals."
"A list of IEEE publications abstracted in this issue is given. The publications will be available in the near future. Only abstracts of the articles are provided herein."
"Advertisement."
"Translation of several non-English-language journals are sponsored by IEEE, Advance tables of contents of forthcoming translated issues and reviews of selected papers from recently translated issues appear here. Subscription rates and additional information are available from IEEE Subscriber Relations."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Reports on new technologies and trends in the industry."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement of available employment opportunities."
"Listing of advertisers represented in this issue."
"Advertising restricted to professional engineering and consulting services."
"A survey form covering the publication topics of most (or least) interest to readers."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Provides a listing of current society officers."
"Advertisement."
"Provides a listing of current society officers."
"Advertisement."
"Presents recent technologies and trends in the engineering and computer industries."
"Advertisement."
"Reports on news of interest to IEEE members, including upcoming meetings and events, industry news, and recent IEEE member obituaries."
"Advertisement."
"Provides a listing of upcoming events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Advertisement."
"Provides news relating to engineering and computing industry leaders, practitioners and researchers."
"Recounts the career and contributions of IEEE members who passed away in 1968."
"Presents a biographical entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
"Provides survey results covering various questions of interest to readers."
"The promise of producing a cathode-ray-tube type of display with essentially unlimited screen size accounts for much of the current interest in laser displays. The first display that used a laser light source to generate a television image was operated in late 1964. Since that time, a number of experimental laser display systems have been demonstrated, including versions capable of reproducing color television images and displaying computer-generated information. Adequate light modulation and scanning techniques are presently available, but the design of broadly applicable equipment still awaits the development of more efficient multicolor lasers."
"The application of digital computers to reliability testing, although not a new concept, is gaining wider acceptance in the manufacturing and aerospace industries; it is replacing or supplementing special hardware that has provided the necessary test capabilities in the past. Unfortunately, arbitrary decisions are sometimes made as to tradeoff between software and special hardware. Before such decisions are made concerning the total system, it is necessary to analyze the needs of the information, control, and interface subsystems as well as the unit to be tested."
"The present thrust of BPA, as it reaches toward the goals of the future, is along the parallel lines of simultaneous planning, design, and development of 1. Long-distance EHV transmission lines to expanding and emerging industrial load centers in the Pacific Northwest and Southwest. 2. Digital controls, on a comprehensive systemic basis, to replace certain analog and manual controls. 3. An expansion of the telecommunications network for the instantaneous transmission and reception of data. 4. A long-range philosophy for service reliability that will minimize outages and service interruptions. These objectives will be closely coordinated with the plans of the Bureau of Reclamation, Corps of Engineers, and other public and private agencies for the construction of new power dams, the installation of additional generating units at existing facilities, and the building of thermal generating plants to meet the power demands of the next two decades."
"Advertisement."
"In computer design, it is often desirable to change one type of logic gate into another for reasons involving availability, quality, cost, logic, savings, or uniformity. Unfortunately, sometimes these changes are not anticipated until the very last minute, and the conventional methods of implementing them are not only lengthy and time-consuming, but require a thorough understanding of Boolean algebra, logic circuits, and related topics. This article describes a new and quicker technique for performing these operations, one requiring little background for successful application."
"Highlights technical articles and features presented in various current IEEE periodicals."
"A list of IEEE publications abstracted in this issue is given. The publications will be available in the near future. Only abstracts of the articles are provided herein."
"Advertisement."
"Translation of several non-English-language journals are sponsored by IEEE, Advance tables of contents of forthcoming translated issues and reviews of selected papers from recently translated issues appear here. Subscription rates and additional information are available from IEEE Subscriber Relations."
"Advertisement."
"Reports on new technologies and trends in the industry."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement of available employment opportunities."
"This section contains complete multientry indexes covering the contents of IEEE Spectrum for the calendar year 1968. The Author and Subject Indexes include feature articles, Book Reviews, and Technical Correspondence. IEEE Forum items appear in the Author Index. The News Index includes items from the Focal Points and News of the IEEE sections, exceptfor People and Obituary items, which are listed separately. In the Subject Index there are several entries for each published item, under. descriptive subject headings that establish a context. The item is referenced only in abbreviated form in the Subject Index. Always refer to the Author Index for full details."
"Listing of advertisers represented in this issue."
"Advertising restricted to professional engineering and consulting services."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Provides a listing of current society officers."
"Advertisement."
"Provides a listing of current society officers."
"Advertisement."
"Presents recent technologies and trends in the engineering and computer industries."
"Advertisement."
"Readers are invited to comment in this department on material previously published in IEEE Spectrum; on the policies and operations of the IEEE; and on technical, economic, or social matters of interest to the electrical and electronics engineering profession. Short, concise letters are preferred. The Editor reserves the right to limit debate on controversial issues."
"Advertisement."
"Reports on news of interest to IEEE members, including upcoming meetings and events, industry news, and recent IEEE member obituaries."
"Advertisement."
"Provides a listing of upcoming events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Advertisement."
"Provides news relating to engineering and computing industry leaders, practitioners and researchers."
"Advertisement."
"Recounts the career and contributions of IEEE members who passed away in 1968."
"Presents a biographical entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
"Presents the President's message for this issue of the publication."
"Until recently, investigators have been frustrated in their attempts at applying microwave and millimeter-wave frequencies to semiconductor devices. During the last few years, the discovery of avalanche transit-time and Gunn effects in bulk semiconductors has been met with overwhelming enthusiasm. The successful fabrication of models presently utilizing these negative-conductance phenomena has given these high-frequency devices an optimistic outlook for the future."
"Computer science has had a fascinating history, dating back to the mid-19th century. Its most dramatic progress, of course, has been over the past two decades or so. Hardware development has been phenomenal during this latter period. We have now reached the stage where the major problem of large-scale-computer manufacturers is in the area of software development. It would appear that the ``speed frontier'' in computer technology has been crossed, but now we are faced with the much more difficult problem of a ``complexity barrier.''"
"When the visible-light-emitting diode became commercially available in 1963, it brought to the market a device that promised advantages in the areas of efficient and reliable operation and of cost. This discussion of the light-emitting device considers some of the trade-offs with regard to the LED as well as the kind of performance that can be expected in actual use at the present state of the art. Particular emphasis is placed on the significant increase in performance over previous similar devices and the resultant increased compatibility with microcircuits."
"The use of pulsing current for gas-metal-arc welding has increased the versatility of the method because of the ease of varying the average current to suit the application. A power supply consists of two properly designed constant-potential power sources in parallel to provide two levels of current. The pulse current is supplied by a half-wave rectifier, and background current by a filtered, three-phase rectifier. The dynamic characteristics must be considered to get good arc stability during current commutation between the two supplies."
"Advertisement."
"Galvanomagnetic properties in the form of Hall and magnetoresistance effects have been rescued from relative obscurity by the successful emergence of sophisticated semiconductor materials and techniques. Long a part of the standard curriculum, these phenomena have unleashed a plethora of useful electromagnetic devices by the adroit application of relatively simple principles. Although solid-state research has certainly been enhanced by the electron-mobility and band-structure analysis capability of galvanomagnetic effects, who would have thought that potentiometers, choppers, gyrators, and push buttons could find new substance with long-established phenomena?"
"Engineering education should encourage students to strive for a mastery of fundamentals and the cultivation of excellence-but this is not enough. Engineering education must be kept alive and relevant; and, to encourage creativity, it must stimulate the imaginations of students. The typical educational yard-stick of a student's performance, however, is the accuracy with which he can repeat, by rote, information obtained from a lecture or text. Original or unconventional approaches to problems are discouraged, and their proponents often penalized, thus discouraging and depressing the student. Must inventiveness be sacrificed to education?"
"Where speed accuracies within 0.1 percent are desired over a wide speed range, the digital approach has proved superior to the analog method. This article describes a typical hybrid digital/analog servo system used to control the speed of a dc motor. A vital part of the system is the comparator, which must combine the functions of frequency and phase discrimination and perform the transition smoothly. It is also shown how precise synchronism between two or more rotating systems, with respect to both speed and position, can be maintained, giving the effect of a ``synchronous link.''"
"Highlights technical articles and features presented in various current IEEE periodicals."
"A list of IEEE publications abstracted in this issue is given. The publications will be available in the near future. Only abstracts of the articles are provided herein."
"Advertisement."
"Translation of several non-English-language journals are sponsored by IEEE, Advance tables of contents of forthcoming translated issues and reviews of selected papers from recently translated issues appear here. Subscription rates and additional information are available from IEEE Subscriber Relations."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Reports on new technologies and trends in the industry."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Listing of advertisers represented in this issue."
"Advertising restricted to professional engineering and consulting services."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"A survey of reliability activities in the United Kingdom with particular emphasis on the electronics industry is given. The guidelines which were laid down by the Organizing Committee of the 1968 Annual Reliability Symposium are followed in a general way. A survey of the status of reliability engineers in the United Kingdom is presented with a discussion of the training facilities that are available for them. Reliability processes relevant mainly to military procurement are given, detailing specific activities and the emphasis which the procuring agency places on such activities. As such, some of the differences between the United Kingdom and the United States on such matters of policy are highlighted."
"A system of classifying failures is proposed as a starting point for increasing the amount of science in the art of reliability engineering. Failures are classified as: type I, lack of qualification, type II, human error, and type III, wear out. Subsets are proposed covering the majority of failures observed in practice. Usefulness of the classification is illustrated by relating specific methods of failure control to each type of failure. Validity of current reliability prediction techniques is discussed. The suggestion is made that validity and accuracy would be improved if new predictive methods were used which are more directly related to the distinct type of failure being examined."
"For any physical system there is always some degree of uncertainty regarding the values of the parameters governing the performance of that system. Uncertainties in the values of the failure rate λ and the repair rate ß reflect themselves in an uncertainty in the value of the point availability, A = ß/(ß + λ). Treating these uncertain parameters as random variables, exact expressions for the mean, variance, and distribution of the point availability are derived by combining the distributions of the failure and repair rates. Hence we can construct estimates and confidence statements for the availability which are consistent with the equivalent statements on the failure-rate and repair-rate parameters. Exact mean and variance results are also provided for mission, transient, and other time-dependent availability expressions. The acquisition of failure and repair data introduces additional information as well as additional uncertainties. A Bayes transformation is developed which utilizes the two data sets to readily convert prior estimates and confidence statements on the availability into posterior versions. This particular paper is restricted to a basic model involving an alternating sequence of independent exponentially distributed operational and repair intervals with the respective rate parameters described by distinct gamma distributions. For this model the point availability proves to have an Euler distribution."
"The statistical assessment of system availability within a Bayesian framework is extended here to consider four additional areas: 1) applications to more complicated availability definitions than considered in an earlier paper; 2) applications to measures of performance other than availability; 3) the use of prior distributions on the failure and repair rates more general than the gamma form; and 4) the use of a model involving nonexponential repair intervals. Under category 1) we consider applications involving: a) a demand for system performance which occurs at a random time within an initial interval; b) a situation involving demands upon a system repeated at intervals; and c) the availability statistics of a redundant configuration. Under category 2) we develop: a) the moment and distributional statistics for the accumulated repair time in a given real-time interval when the rate parameters are uncertain; and b) additional measures of performance in a repeated demand situation. Under category 3) we treat fully the case of a prior distribution composed of a linear combination of gamma distributions; this allows multimodal priors. Under category 4) we treat the case of gamma-distributed repair intervals where both the location and shape parameters are uncertain. The results obtained under all four categories can be expressed in terms of the basic measures for the Euler distribution developed in an earlier paper [1]."
"The concepts of accuracy and resolution of a diagnostic procedure are introduced. Both measures can be computed using diagnostic data obtained from the fault simulation process and used as figures of merit for the diagnostics applied to the system. With these measures, the designer is able to evaluate his diagnostic program design and dictionary or catalog techniques prior to the actual field implementation. The results obtained by applying these measures to the Bell System's No. 1 Electronic Switching System are also discussed."
"A simple computational procedure has been developed for maximizing reliability of multistage parallel systems subject to multiple nonlinear constraints. It appears that the procedure can be applied to a variety of optimization problems with separable objective and multiple constraint functions."
"Mathematical statistics are used to design electronic systems in which the effects of the initial variations of the system parameters and the drift of these parameters on the system performance criteria are a minimum. This is accomplished by minimizing the initial variances of the system performance criteria with respect to the initial mean values of the system parameters while constraining the means of these parameters to their required values. In addition, the drift rates of the system parameters are selected in such a manner as to prevent the drift of the mean values of the system performance criteria while reducing the tendencies of the variances of these criteria to increase with time. These techniques were successfully applied to a number of electronic systems, including systems with both active and passive elements, thus illustrating the usefulness of mathematical statistics in the design of mass produced electronic systems."
"In this paper, an exact method is studied for testing the equality of means of two independent Poisson distributions. The method allows for sampling over different time durations and thus, one can compare the mean time between failures of an equipment, by observing it for, say, a month, to the MTBF of another equipment which has been under observation for say six months. The purpose of the test for a given situation is discussed, and examples are given which illustrate the usefulness of the test. Extensive tables and graphs are included for those readers who wish to utilize the results."
"The mean time to system failure (MTSF) for a 2-out-of-n system with repair is intuitively derived. The improvement factor, the ratio of the MTSF for a 2 out of n system with repair to that system without repair, is evaluated and its asymptotic behavior is studied."
"This paper considers the case of a standby redundant system where the switchover is not instantaneous. The duration of time between the instant at which action is initiated on the standby subsystem in order to bring it to the active state and the instant at which it becomes operating standby is called switchover time, and is considered to be a random variable. A policy specifying the instant at which action is initiated on the standby subsystem in order to bring it to the operating standby state is proposed and under this proposed policy, the Laplace transform of the probability density function of time to system failure and the expression for expected time to system failure are derived."
"A technique for synthesizing reliable systems using parallel redundancy at the subsystem level is described. The specification of a loss function allows the calculation of the average expected loss which can be used to determine the optimum amount of redundancy for a given application. This optimum is statistical and therefore applicable only when the mission is performed many times."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"A model is presented for the change (growth) in reliability of a system during a test program. Parameters of the model are assumed to be random variables with appropriate prior density functions. Expressions are then derived that enable estimates (in the form of expectations) and precision statements (in the form of variances) to be made of: 1) projected system reliability at time τ after the start of the test program, and 2) system reliability after the observation of failure data. Numerical examples are presented, and extension to multimode failures is indicated."
"In systems of parallel components, the system reliability function Rp(t) is usually defined as the probability that not all the parallel components fail in a time interval t, given that all the components are operating at the beginning of the interval. This definition implies that if there is one component which operates throughout the whole interval in question, then the system reliability is perfect. Consider the system S which always requires M > 1 components to do its job. It is obvious that the system is not reliable if there are only k, 1 ≤ k < M, components working in the time interval t. The conventional reliability function Rp(t) is then insufficient for studying the reliability of the system S. A generalized reliability function Rr,n(t) is presented in this paper, and it is shown that the conventional reliability function Rp(t) is a special case of the generalized reliability function Rr,n(t). The practical application of this generalized reliability function is also discussed."
"It is argued that we must decide which parameters are worthy of comparison not over a time span for one specimen, but among specimens derived from diferent times, different designs, and different configurations."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"This index covers all technical items - papers, correspondence, reviews, etc. - that appeared in this periodical during the year, and items from previous years that were commented upon or corrected in this year. Departments and other items may also be covered if they have been judged to have archival value. The Author Index contains the primary entry for each item, listed under the first author's name. The primary entry includes the coauthors' names, the title of the paper or other item, and its location, specified by the publication abbreviation, year, month, and inclusive pagination. The Subject Index contains entries describing the item under all appropriate subject headings, plus the first author's name, the publication abbreviation, month, and year, and inclusive pages. Note that the item title is found only under the primary entry in the Author Index."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"It is the purpose of this paper to introduce the issue of this TRANSACTIONS devoted entirely to reliability physics and to provide a frame of reference for the individual technical papers which follow. The organizers of this issue felt that a paper putting the various elements of reliability physics into proper perspective, and relating them to the prior art and to their proper fields of application could serve as a useful guide to the reader of this issue and to the literature."
"Failure analysis experience gained in support of several major spacecraft programs has shown the vast majority of electronic part failures encountered to be the result of relatively straightforward quality defects and misuse. Within the framework of this experience, it is estimated that the number of part failures resulting from these simple causes is at least 100 percent greater than that due to more subtle time/environment dependent failure mechanisms. Therefore, even first-order failure analysis without resort to sophisticated facilities and techniques can provide substantial information regarding the cause of equipment malfunction. It is the intent of this paper to briefly discuss the role of part failure analysis in support of system development, indicate the relative proportion of part failures due to various major causes, and present several examples of failure analysis results."
"The failure mechanism defined as an oxide integrity defect in an integrated circuit is covered. A step-by-step analysis is discussed from pinholes in the oxide until the real failure mechanism is revealed. All interim process control changes which further delineated the real problem are discussed. These include double-masking, double KMER process, additional cleanliness requirements, etc. The final recognition of the oxide integrity defect failure mechanism is discussed in detail. The joint plans-of-action between Autonetics and the various suppliers are outlined. The test plans originated are discussed, and the results are indicated in general terms and the courses of action taken by the suppliers. Included are test techniques by the suppliers to further outline the corrective action regarding the fabrication process and, where possible, the actual final agreed-to position taken. Included are the courses taken by the supplier regarding measurement techniques to be implemented to prevent further processing of defective materials as well as ultimate delivery to Autonetics. A detailed analysis is made of the failure analysis technique used by Autonetics to uncover the actual oxide integrity defect. Discussion of the effects of electrical overstress to the device is described, and the feasibility of dielectric breakdown testing is outlined. A study is made of the correlation of the failure analysis done by the suppliers and by Autonetics. A study is also reported regarding circuit application and analysis results made by Autonetics to further define the actual failure mechanism."
"The generalized stress-strength model which is prevalent in current literature is perhaps the closest that analysts have come to a general physical model. To obtain a failure density function and associated hazard function one must assume a certain probability distribution for the part strength and a particular amplitude distribution and frequency of occurrence distribution for the part stress. If one assumes a normal strength distribution and Poisson distributed stress occurrence times with normally distributed amplitudes, then this leads to an exponential failure density function and a constant hazard. Such a model is probably best suited for situations in which the part generally lasts a long time and only seems to fail when on occasion a large stress occurs. In many situations the failure of parts seems to fit a different pattern. The part is operated at nearly a constant stress level; however, the part strength gradually deteriorates with time. As time goes on the rate of deterioration should increase sharply as wear-out is reached and cause an increase in hazard. A probabilistic model which fits this hypothesis is a constantly applied stress and a Rayleigh distributed part strength. The parameter of the Rayleigh distribution is allowed to increase in an exponential fashion with time which produces the strength deterioration effect. Basically the failure rate turns out to depend on the square of the applied stress; however, if the strength deterioration rate is allowed to be a function of the input stress, other behaviors are predicted."
"The measurement and prediction of the reliability of semiconductor devices is becoming increasingly more dependent upon an understanding of device physics. The present level of understanding tanding of device physics is, however, inadequate for many practical purposes. This paper reviews the present status of p-n junction theory, its relevance to device degradation, and the experimental techniques available for measuring intrinsic device properties. Limitations in the theory and additional development required to meet the needs of device reliability evaluation and prediction are considered. The role of modeling in evaluating device reliability is discussed."
"A general degradation model which includes conventional acceleration tests such as fixed, progressive, and step stress experiments is derived from the reaction theory under the assumption of linear degradation accumulation. Its application to the acceleration test is discussed. According to the reaction theory, degradation of the characteristic parameter, μ is connected to reaction rate K and time t by a linear transformation function f(μ) = Kt. The total degradation is determined by the linear accumulation of the Kiti product such as f(μn)= # Kiti. This relationship is also expressed as a generalized Miner's equation #(ti/Li) = 1 in which ti and Li are the actual stressing time and expected life under the ith stress condition, respectively, and # ti is the life expectancy of the component under successive stress conditions from i = 1 to n. Validity of this linear accumulation assumption is investigated under various stress application paths. For monotonic step-up, cyclic, and random stress, the rule almost holds as a whole, but monotonic step-down stress sometimes causes erroneous recovering effects of the parameter. The degradation accumulation principle is effectively applicable to integrate degradation and failure pattern information and also to avoid some shortcomings of conventional life test methods. 1) For example, in order to find efficiently the life vs. stress plot, we could combine the degradation (failure fraction) vs. stress diagram, obtained by one step stress experiment, and the knowledge of the degradation pattern obtained by a constant stress test."
"Unlike the solar cell and the NPN transistor, the MOS device does not sustain a degradation as the principal effect of exposure to nuclear radiation. Instead, the MOS device undergoes a change of operating region, the change being in the nature of a parallel shift of the characteristic curve of the device, produced by the trapping of radiation-excited holes within the 2000-Å insulator and the consequent buildup of a fixed bulk space charge in the insulator. Less significant changes under radiation are variations in the shape of the characteristic curve and increased leakage current. These are genuine degradation effects and are closely analogous to the strong effects of ionizing radiation in planar-passivated junction devices such as bipolar transistors, SCRs, diodes, etc. In the latter cases, the devices are acting as MIS devices and hole trapping in the oxide is again responsible for their degradation. A consideration of the case of simple MIS devices under radiation is thus found helpful in elucidating some other important types of failure under radiation of silicon junction devices."
"Transistor second breakdown failures usually appear as collector-emitter short circuits. Microscopic examination of these devices shows that the contact metalization has undergone physical change. Cross sectioning shows that the short circuit is the result of the contact metal melting and alloying into the device. If it is assumed that second breakdown itself is not destructive but leads to the melting and alloying of the contact metalization, then a high temperature metal should be superior to aluminum for withstanding hot spots. This paper describes the experimental results of transistors having molybdenum-aluminum metalization compared to devices with only aluminum contacts. The results indicate that devices with molybdenum, when driven into second breakdown, will outlive aluminum units with respect to current by a factor of three."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"The theme of the 1968 Annual Symposium on Reliability, ``Reliability in Perspective,'' can be discussed from many aspects, ranging from purely technical to top management dialogue. This discussion will be addressed to the role of the reliability practitioner in today's environment."
"Technical innovation in this age of integrated electronics may be viewed as three interrelated ``people processes,'' each aimed at either improving cost, performance, or reliability-three criteria of system effectiveness that allow choice and evaluation of alternate solutions to a problem. These tradeoffs must be chosen on the basis of an overall criterion of system effectiveness, such as service, to be measured by performance per total annual dollar of expense. Materials, devices, and systems are the specialist levels of innovation in integrated electronics. Each level performs four basic functions including 1) formulation of requirements on the entity as a whole, 2) establishment, by analysis, of a design theory based on a hypothesized model, 3) exploration of methods for fabricating structures to meet specified requirements, and 4) development of test methods to measure the actual functions produced. These functions must be iterated for performance, cost, and reliability. When cost and reliability are added to performance as equally important requirements, design, reliability, and manufacturing people all must influence tradeoff decisions. This complexity is illustrated by examining, on only the devices level, the kinds of information that must be generated and combined in the three iterations for performance, cost, and reliability. (A discussion of the development of semiconductor devices for the Telstar® satellite further illustrates some of these points.) It is concluded that the virtue of developing a well-ordered structure for such a complex innovation process lies in calling for the right kinds of information at the right time, and identifying missing knowledge."
"The detailed allocation method of system reliability discussed in this paper is designed to select the optimal solution in the context of the trade-off analysis. It is noted that the problem may be structured as an n-stage sequential decision problem. A computational algorithm is developed using dynamic programming."
"Most of the familiar time-to-failure distributions used today are derived from hazard functions whose parameters are assumed constant. An unconditional time-to-failure distribution is derived here by assuming that a parameter of a classical failure distribution (viz., exponential and Weibull) is a random variable with a known distribution. With the use of the derived compound distributions and Bayesian techniques, it is possible to join the test data with prior information to arrive at a combined, and possibly superior, estimate of reliability. The prior distributions considered here are the two-point, the uniform, and the gamma. Conceptually, such a scheme may be a more realistic model for describing failure patterns under specific conditions."
"Starting with an assumption concerning the type of physical process causing failure and an assumption concerning the random distribution of components with respect to a failure threshold. cumulative distribution functions in time, temperature, and voltage are derived. These cumulative distribution functions are identical to each other if the random variables are certain functions of time, temperature, or voltage, thus showing the equivalence of time, temperature, and voltage as stresses. The cumulative distribution function in time is the familiar log-normal function. If it is known that the assumed physical process is the only one causing failure, then one can rigorously replace time by temperature or voltage. However, it is demonstrated that in an accelerated test, i.e., one in which time is replaced by another stress such as temperature, one can never be sure that another process will not be predominant at longer times; thus, one can never make a certain extrapolation to longer times. One might be able to circumvent this difficulty by having a thorough knowledge of the physics, chemistry, and metallurgy of the possible failure processes in the component."
"The Weibull process with unknown scale parameter is taken as a model for Bayesian decision making. The family of natural conjugate prior distributions for the scale parameter is exhibited and used in prior and posterior analysis. Preposterior analysis and several sampling schemes are then discussed. Preposterior analysis is given for an acceptance sampling problem with utility linear in the unknown mean of the Weibull process, in which the sampling scheme yields the first r failures in a life test of n items. An example is included."
"Application of error correcting coding is often employed to improve system operation and reliability. By means of suitable reliability models and simple analysis, the effect of error correcting coding of memory words on the overall reliability of the system is discussed. Introduction of error correcting facilities will generally have three significant effects on the system: 1) increased hardware, which is also subject to failures and hence tends to lower reliability; 2) the system's ability to function in the presence of a certain class of failures; and 3) quicker detection of errors, which also means an improved repair rate. To illustrate the extent to which the above three factors govern the reliability improvement due to coding, three types of systems are considered. These systems use the same basic processor and memory units but differ in their structure and complexity. Other factors besides the three above which control the reliability improvement due to coding are the system structure and the relative sizes of processor and memory hardware."
"A system whose components, upon failure, are repaired or replaced is considered. Only two system states, the ``operating'' state and the ``failed'' state, are distinguished. The system is by defined a reliability network and by the failure rate and repair rate of each component. The time to failure and the time to repair of the components are assumed to be exponentially distributed. A criterion of system worth is the random variable ``downtime,'' denoted by D(t), which is defined as the time the system is down during the time interval (0, t). The following questions are answered: 1) What is the distribution function of D(t)? 2) What are the mean and the variance of D(t)? 3) What is the asymptotic behavior of D(t) for large values of t? 4) How can one make approximate probability statements about D(t)? It is shown that the beta distribution is a suitable approximation for the conditional distribution of D(t)/t, given that at least one failure has occurred, and that for t greater than 20 mean failure times the distribution of D(t) is practically normal."
"It is usually assumed that the underlying distribution of times to failure of systems is the exponential distribution. This is justified on the basis of the bathtub curve or Drenick's theorem, but the bathtub curve is merely a statement of plausibility and conflicts with Drenick's theorem. Even if exponentiality is not assumed, it is usually assumed that a system under study is as-good-as-new after repair. This is not a plausible assumption to make for a complex system. If failure data are available they should be tested for trend among successive failure times. If a trend exists, a time dependent (nonhomogeneous) Poisson process (called bad-as-old model in this paper) should be fitted and tested for adequacy. This paper is not intended to provide a rigorous, definitive treatment of bad-as-old models. Rather, it has three main purposes: 1) to point out the glaring, but somehow usually overlooked, inconsistency between the commonly accepted concept of wearout of repairable systems and the a priori use of renewal processes for modeling these systems; 2) to outline basic procedures for evaluating data from repairable systems and for formulating bad-as-old probabilistic models; and 3) to present the results of Monte Carlo simulations, which illustrate the grossly misleading results which can occur if independence of successive failure times is invalidly assumed."
"The application of the analytical maintenance model to the analysis of the launch readiness of systems is described, and the maintainability contribution to the system operational readiness is also derived. Where the probability of multiple malfunctions during a time-limited operational sequence is significant, the specification of maintenance capability can become involved. A simplifying process using the gamma distribution is described which expresses the maintenance capability in terms of a probability of performing the restore function within a time limitation. Similarities between the empirical distribution and the gamma distribution are discussed. These similarities are worthy of note by way of introducing the gamma distribution as a useful descriptor of downtime frequencies of occurrence. The distributions most commonly used are the log normal and the negative exponential. The reason for considering the gamma distribution as a potential alternate is its relative algebraic simplicity. The rationale for this approach is described. The potential usefulness of the procedures developed will apply to maintainability prediction, assessment, and validation, and further to system or subsystem levels."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Deadlock problems can arise in many subtle ways in a multitasking system. System designers must be constantly alert to the deadlock possibilities of any proposed design. Users designing application programs in which multitasking capabilities are used face similar problems. Once a deadlock situation has been recognized, it can probably be circumvented by one of the techniques described."
"Experience and techniques used at RTCC to analyze computer system performance have evolved through long exposure to the problem of assuring workable system designs or problem sohtions. The original development of the techniques discussed in this paper .began in mid-1963 for use with Gemini systems and the 7094-11. When probIems in computer size or speed arose, new computers were simulated. When I/O devices caused delays in processing, different I/O devices were simulated to improve performance. When programming design seemed inefficient (either control or application programs), new designs were modeled. Results of these studies were presented for management decision."
"Performing data processing services at different priorities involves considerations not usually associated with queuing theory. Basically, this is due to the fact that a lower priority service can be performed at the same time that an input/output operation is taking place as part of a higher priority service. This overlapping of i/o operations with the execution of instructions complicates the problem of obtaining quantitative information about data processing services done on a priority basis. Yet this kind of information is highly desirable for designing efficient systems."
"The task of testing a complete operating and computing system has become increasingly difficult, primarily because of the growing complexity of today's systems. An operating system consists of a control program and a set of job programs; a computing system consists of at least one processing unit and various channels, control units, and input/output devices. Not only must each program and system device be individually tested to assure proper functioning, but the various interfaces between programs in the operating system and devices in the computing system must also be tested. Finally, all parts of the system must be pulled together for the complete systems test required to gauge the performance of the system and to check the functional relationship among operator, operating system, and computing system."
"Present considerations in interactive display activity are brought into perspective."
"Several underlying principles of interactive graphics are discussed in this section. In reviewing basic aspects of device technology, the first paper provides background information for the other papers of this issue. This is followed by modern methods for describing geometrical shapes in mathematical terms. Also discussed is a new algorithm for drawing curves of arbitrary shape on the display screen. The last two papers of this section are concerned with data structure, which is particularly important in graphics applications."
"In providing background information on display technology, this paper discusses cathode-ray tube characteristics and interactive devices as they affect the user."
"Matrix notation is used to develop geometric concepts for computer-controlled graphics."
"Discussed is a method of drawing curves of arbitrary shape on a graphic display screen. An algorithm for the design of free-form curves is developed by using rational polynomials and the notation of homogeneous coordinates. With this algorithm, spline-like curves can be generated through arbitrarily placed points in a plane or in space."
"In the past, a common data structure, or model, has been used for all phases of a computer graphics design system. This has meant that the model used during conversational interaction was the same as the model used in the subsequent analysis operations, usually resulting in poor overall performance. This paper suggests the use of separate models for each phase, providing a general model for the conversational drawing phase which is suitable as a front end in many different application areas. Described are data structures and programs for both phases: a conversational display image manipulation program (DIM) and its interconnections with an existing analysis application program (IBM 1130 Continuous System Modeling Program). Examples of the use of this particular multilevel modeling design facility are included."
"A recent approach to representing relations between entities in a graphics data structure has been to store information as triples in the form Attribute (Object) = Value."
"In order to adapt existing display concepts and the power of data processing to specific interactive applications, the programmer depends on appropriate language and systems support. Dealing with such support in this section, the first paper discusses objectives in the design of the basic general-purpose package for FORTRAN users. Then a system is introduced that allows programming in a higher-level language and thus eases implementation for non-specialists. Conversational entry of application programs from a display console can be accomplished by a graphics job processor that is the subject of another paper. Also described is a system that interprets and executes FORTRAN statements as they are entered on the display screen. Looking into the future, the last paper proposes a problem-oriented language for handling three-dimensional geometric information."
"A basic objective in the design of a package of general-purpose graphics subroutines was to make them accessible to FORTRAN programmers while circumventing some of the limitations of that language for graphics applications. This paper discusses how observation of graphics applications led to the establishment of design criteria for a subroutine package to facilitate the generation of interactive displays. It outlines how application programmers would use the package, including provisions for communication between the console and the program. Many of the fundamental concepts that characterize the package are described, including provisions for display modification and animation."
"This paper discusses a system designed for interactive problem solving by use of a graphic display console. Existing application programs can readily be modified for use with a graphic display device, and the graphics programming can usually be done in a higher-level language. Based on intermediate results, the order of execution of application modules can be controlled from the console. The system description emphasizes the structure and generation of display formats for displaying output, for accepting user-defined commands, and for accepting data that is made accessible to the application modules. Also described is a generalized data structure and a set of experimental routines designed to adapt the structure to particular needs."
"A graphic job processor enables nonprogrammers to introduce application programs conversationally from a display console. Although not restricted to graphics applications, the processor makes the same display console available for both job definition and interaction with a graphics application program. This paper discusses some of the factors considered in designing displays to elicit information from the user. The structure of the processor is then described, including its interface to the operating system under which it functions. It also discusses communication among the system operator, the console user, and the application programmer."
"This paper discusses a system called DISPLAYTRAN that interpretively executes FORTRAN statements entered at a display console, allowing graphics users to perform unanticipated computations and to more easily debug graphics application programs. The relationships among the operating system, the display terminal, and the computing system are discussed, and the major components of this system are described. A command language, the FORTRAN IV subset, and the graphics language provided for users are presented. Internal operation of the graphic facility is outlined."
"This paper argues that there is a need for a problem-oriented language to handle three-dimensional geometric information, and proposes a set of language facilities that illustrate how this need should be met. The emphasis is on the facilities needed for describing solid objects and their placement in space, and for defining and operating on configurations of objects."
"Discussed are two computer programs for generating and realistically plotting any view of a three-dimensional object from the same object description, thereby simulating the viewpoints of a person moving around the object. Although the programs have been implemented—on an experimental basis—for digital plotting, the use of the underlying concepts for graphic display is contemplated. Involved in the SIGHT program are approaches to some of the most difficult problems in three-dimensional graphics—the hidden-line problem, approximating curved solids by polyhedra, and simulating degrees of surface transparency. The description of the program LEGER emphasizes the design of data storage for the object description. This scheme allows the use of the same data for generating all views of the object. The data structure can be modified to adjust the dimensions of the scene and the relative orientations of the component parts."
"In demonstrating the advantageous use of graphics in a heuristic approach to problem solving, the deciphering of unknown crystal structures is used as an environment. The interactive graphic console lends concreteness to the crystallographer's abstract perception of three-dimensional structures."
"Reported is an experimental technique that has been developed for retrieving, by geometrical means, information related to city maps. This paper emphasizes the analysis needed to translate a retrieval query into relationships among points, vectors, and polygons. An illustration of the technique is given."
"A group of programs, called SUMX, is used for statistically analyzing high-energy physics data by batch-processing techniques."
"Evaluation, storage, and retrieval of neutron cross-section data are of major concern to the international community of low-energy physicists. Discussed is an experimentally evolving program, called SCORE, designed to perform these services. The overall concept of the SCORE program and the programming environment are presented. Cross-section data entry, evaluation, and curve generation are discussed."
"This paper describes a generalized program for the analysis and design of plate cam and follower mechanisms using a graphic display console. The experimental program was developed to study the use of interactive graphics systems for solving mechanical design problems. The program can handle almost all types of plate cam and follower mechanisms. A wide selection of motion curves permits the designer to specify any desired motion of a point of interest by synthesizing several curves into a displacement diagram."
"The present status of interactive graphic displays in the application environment is reviewed. Although graphics data processing is still largely experimental, several applications have come into productive use—especially in the areas of data and design analysis. The primary benefit from enhancing such applications with graphic displays is the savings in calendar time. Before surveying several application areas, user aspects and application characteristics are discussed."
"The Model 85 is a high-performance system that will execute programs that run on smaller SYSTEM/360 computers. Its basic design includes monolithic circuits, very wide data paths, an 80-nanosecond internal buffer of at least 16K bytes, and a high-speed multiply feature. The system is designed for high throughput over a full range of applications. Among the features that bolster throughput, in addition to the high internal performance, are an exceptionally large main storage, instruction retry, error correction in main storage, and improved diagnostic and maintenance facilities."
"The inclusion of a storage hierarchy represents one of the major advances in system organization present in the Model 85. Although the concept of a storage hierarchy is not new, the successful implementation of a nanosecond/microsecond level of hierarchy was inhibited until now by the lack of a suitable technology. As implemented in the Model 85, the fast monolithic storage physically integrated with the CPU logic yields the desired machine speed, while the large core storage yields the desired storage capacity, the combination being transparent to the user. It is likely that with future progress in technology this nanosecond/microsecond hierarchy is not merely an innovation that worked out well for the Model 85, but rather it is a fundamental step forward that will be incorporated into most large systems of the future."
"The floating-point facilities of the Model 85 extend the architecture of SYSTEM/360 by introducing a new floating-point number format, called extended precision, and by providing seven new floating-point instructions."
"The Part Period Algorithm performs well in all environments, but is particularly well suited for industries whose demand forecast extends for a limited number of periods, and for those whose forecast is appreciably more accurate in the near future than for the more distant future. In the short-horizon environment, PPA outperforms the other algorithms tested. In addition, considerably few computations are required by the Part Period Algorithm than of the other tested algorithms with comparable performance. In the \"knowndemand, long-horizon\" environment, setup and holding-cost performance with PPA is, on the average, approximately half of one percent higher than minimum cost."
"The purpose of this paper is to analyze the solution of the Part Period Algorithm (PPA) to the economic lot-size problem with known future demands as presented by J. J. DeMatteis in Part I of this paper. Our model assumes that the manufacturing (or purchasing) cost function is a straight line with positive setup (or ordering) cost and non-negative slope; this cost function and the unit inventory holding cost are time invariant."
"In many inventory management systems, situations arise in which ordering time and ordering quantity of an item are interrelated with those for other items. In some of these cases, consideration of the interrelationship among items is mandatory. This can happen for a group of items, for instance, if there is a budgetary limit on the total dollar value of inventory that may be carried for the group, or if a limit exists on warehouse capacity available for storing items in the group.' In other cases, consideration of the interrelationship is optional, the interrelationship being considered only when the added complexity in decision-making is outweighed by the added benefits expected to be gained."
"An error-correction system has been implemented for data stored in the IBM Photo-Digital Storage System. Hardware is used for encoding and error detection, and a processor-controller is used, on a time-sharing basis, for error correction. A Reed-Solomon code is used to obtain a very low error rate in spite of flaws affecting the recorded bits. This approach is applicable to systems which require complex codes and have a data processor available on a time-sharing basis."
"A stability criterion is derived for networks containing lossless transmission lines as well as the usual lumped electrical elements. The criterion is stated in terms of the transmission line parameters and scattering matrix measurements made at the terminals of the lumped part of the network. The mathematical proof of the stability theorem involves some new results concerning a special system of difference-differential equations. Another stability criterion is derived in terms of more general input-output measurements."
"A closed-form solution is obtained for a two-dimensional version of the Young-Laplace equation governing the shape of the interface between immiscible liquids. This solution enables designers of liquid junctions (in, for example, soldering or ink printing applications) to calculate profiles using certain junction dimensions as boundary conditions in the equations. Calculated profiles are superimposed on silhouettes of liquid junctions to show the accuracy of the solutions (±5%). The paper also introduces a parameter called the coefficient of retardation which was found convenient in accounting for all the factors that permit variable contact angles to be observed in a given solid-liquid-air system."
"X-ray diffraction topography in transmission and reflection has been employed to analyze crystal faults and stresses in germanium wafers caused by deposition of oxide layers, epitaxy and planar diffusion. Localized diffusion of arsenic, gallium and phosphorus normally does not introduce stresses sufficiently high to generate dislocations in germanium (011) wafers. However, heat treatment of germanium wafers covered with a SiO2 film causes high stresses which are often relieved by plastic deformation."
"We have demonstrated ZnTe devices with efficient (about 1%) light emission at 77 °K in which the injection mechanism is a forward-biasd photo-n-p junction. In one, Al and Cd are diffused into highly p-type ZnTe:P to produce an Al-doped region 70 µm deep with a 20 µm surface layer of average composition Zn0.6Cd0.4Te. Light emission (575 nm) is observed for 2.5 V. Similar results are obtained when Al alone is diffused in from an evaporated layer to a depth of about 50 µm. This latter device was earlier thought to operate by avalanche injection. Both structures with In contacts to the Al layer give open-circuit photovoltages of over 1.8 V at 77 °K. The all-ZnTe device, however, requires over 7 V to sustain light emission. While it is possible that efficient ZnTe devices made by vapor diffusing the Al are avalanche injection structures, efficient avalanche injection in a II–VI device has yet to be conclusively demonstrated."
"The Uniformly Reflexive Structure (URS) introduced by E. G. Wagner is, for this paper, a nonassociative algebra consisting of a domain and a binary operation satisfying the following axioms: 0. (∃*)(∀a)[a·* = *·a = *]; 1. (∃ψ)(∀ a,b,c,d)[ψ ≠ * & ((a ≠ * & b ≠ * & c ≠ * & d ≠ *) →((a = d & (((ψ·a)·b)·c)·d = b) or (a ≠ d & (((ψ ·a)·b)·c)·d = c)))] ; and 2. (∃α)(∀b,c,d) [α ≠ ψ & ((b ≠ * & c ≠ * & d ≠ *) →((α·b)·c ≠ * & ((α·b)·c)· d = (b·d)·(c·d)))]. Wagner showed that these structures generalize much of Recursive Function Theory (RFT)."
"A junction-isolated integrated circuit in silicon is described, having a switching speed of 320 picoseconds in a package which by itself causes a 120 ps delay. The design of the transistor used in this circuit was obtained by simulating the transistor as a computerized, two-dimensional distributed model. The improvements required in the transistor technology were thus predetermined and the design was realized without a large number of iterations. It is shown that the primary parameters affecting the performance of the transistor are (a) mobile carrier storage in the emitter-base junction; (b) emitter crowding; (c) stretching of the base into the collector at high forward-current densities and (d) conductivity modulations in the active base region. The resulting transistors have a cut-off frequency of 7.15 GHz at VCB=2 V and IC=20 mA. The total number of impurity atoms forming the emitter and the base region are 5.57×109 and 5.7×105, respectively."
"The corrosion potential (Uk) of n-type Ge with donor concentrations less than 1018 cm−3 was drastically changed (“ΔUk effect”) by heat treatments between 600 and 800°C. The formation of recombination centers due to Cu contamination is probably the principal cause."
"Reprints of the papers listed here may usually be obtained most efficiently by writing directly to the authors. The authors' IBM divisions and locations are identified as follows: ASDD is the Advanced Systems Development Division; CD, Components Division; DPD, Data Processing Division; FSD, Federal Systems Division; RES, Research Division; SDD, Systems Development Division and SMD, Systems Manufacturing Division. East Fishkill, Endicott, Kingston, Owego, Poughkeepsie, and Yorktown Heights are in New York; Los Gatos, Palo Alto, and San Jose, California; Gaithersburg, Maryland; Rochester, Minnesota; Huntsville, Alabama; Burlington, Vermont; and Boeblingen, Germany."
"The Automatic Dynamic Response Analyzer (ADRA) is a laboratory tool for developing improved methods of characterizing and measuring the dynamic performance of integrated circuit logic packages. ADRA consists of ensembles of computer controlled electronic equipment which provide a suitable electrical environment for the logic unit under examination, subject the unit to appropriate patterns of shaped pulses, measure and digitize the input/output waveforms, and process the resulting data. This paper describes the ADRA system, its organization and hardware characteristics, and an example of its use."
"An experiment to obtain the coefficients of a circuit delay equation was designed and implemented on the ADRA/M44 system in order to gain experience in the system's use. The process involves automatic calibration and diagnostic procedures, data collection under computer control and multivariate regression analysis. Some conclusions are drawn about the planning and use of computer controlled instruments such as ADRA."
"The design of a control storage system of 90 nsec access time and 200 nsec cycle time with permanently stored microinstructions is described. The storage medium used is the capacitive coupling between two groups of orthogonal conductors forming an information plane and a sense plane. There are 2816 words of 100 bits each, divided over two gates. The selection of an address line in the information plane is achieved through a transistor selection matrix. The output signal is sensed differentially at the mid-point of the sense line, which is matched at both ends. The sense amplifier output plus a “strobe” pulse set a latch for a portion of the cycle time and this provides the necessary inputs to the central processing unit. The major contributions to noise, such as sneak-path noise and select noise, are discussed and evaluated. The timing of the different pulses necessary to drive the array and the resulting outputs are explained and the marginal effects of time and amplitude variations are considered. Information can be changed off-line by replacing bit planes. Transcription of information in the bit planes is fully automated and can be speedily accomplished."
"An efficient means for distributing the information contained in a wide-band analog signal over two limited bandwidth channels is provided by using frequency modulation and “zero-crossing counting.” The new technique should accommodate at least twice the bandwidth that can be recorded or transmitted by the usual FM methods. Experimental results with a two-channel magnetic tape system confirm this expectation."
"The combination of a new high-speed process and developer unit which uses pressurized anhydrous ammonia gas offers a significant increase in the speed of developing diazo photomaterials. In addition to being up to 100 times faster than conventional ambient-pressure ammonia development processes, the new process and developer provide both flexibility and uniformity of sensitometric characteristics. The unpleasant odor and corrosive character of ammonia gas required a means for positively sealing the film surface to the processing device and a means for disposing of residual ammonia gas remaining in the device at the end of the processing cycle. A developer platen, designed to meet these needs, also achieves uniform image development by utilizing the entering flow of ammonia gas to wash entrapped ambient air from the film surface and into a small reservoir. The process and its relatively simple hardware have been incorporated into an experimental photo-image converter to provide “on-line” input and output of photo-images from a random access image file. The process and a wash-type developer are used in the IBM 9950, 9954 and 9955 diazo aperture card copiers."
"A new method is proposed to determine the tap settings of a delay-line filter for distortion correction of digital data after transmission by a voice line. The procedure described achieves approximately the optimal tap settings by solving a system of linear equations with a circulant matrix of coefficients. When the fast Fourier transform algorithm of Cooley and Tukey is used, the resulting quantity of computations is considerably smaller than in other known methods. Therefore, much faster equalization can be achieved."
"This communication describes how the weighted backward Euler formula, as applied to analyze electromechanical systems, can be implicitly implemented by replacing capacitors and inductors by resistors and voltage or current sources, respectively, and by replacing the driving functions by their first differences. This replaces the set of differential equations, which describes the capacitive voltages and the inductive currents, by a set of algebraic first difference equations."
"Reprints of the papers listed here may usually be obtained most efficiently by writing directly to the authors. The authors' IBM divisions and locations are identifed as follows: ASDD is the Advanced Systems Development Division; CD, Components Division: DPD, Data Processing Division; FSD, Federal Systems Division; RES, Research Division; and SDD, Systems Development Division. East Fishkill, Endicott, Kingston, Owego, Poughkeepsie, and Yorktown Heights are in New York; Los Gatos, Palo Alto, and San Jose, California; Gaithersburg, Maryland; Rochester"
"The IBM 1975 Optical Page Reader, specially built for the Social Security Administration, reads over 200 fonts from quarterly employer reports printed by electric and manual typewriters, business machines, and high-speed printers. Since the SSA has no control over the means used by employers to prepare the reports, many variations in print quality are present. This paper discusses the problems involved in planning and developing a system to read these reports and summarizes the design of the specialized video signal processing circuits and the character recognition logic that are used in the system. Two companion papers treat the latter topics in more detail. Also discussed in the paper is a management information system that permitted detailed analysis of experimental data and accelerated the development process."
"An adaptive video thresholding system is used in the Page Reader to minimize recognition failures due to contrast and line width variation. The main threshold operator is a linear function of the average contrast over a specified area. Adjustments to the threshold level are made by circuits that compute the average line width in a character, and by circuits that filter out spatial noise in the vicinity of the character. The different types of print quality distortions predominant in typewriter printing and business machine printing are handled by switching between different sets of threshold operators."
"The design approaches which were used to specify feature measurement logic, recognition reference standards, and decision functions for a multifont character recognition system are discussed. The importance of an intuitive approach to design, as opposed to a fully automated approach, is emphasized. The nature of the problem required an intimate interaction between the designers, who investigated complex pattern recognition problems and proposed design alternatives, and the computer, which relieved the designer of routine testing and evaluation of the tentative design."
"The time-optimal control problem for a moving-coil linear actuator has been worked out by means of functional analysis and a related graphical procedure requiring only data from an impulse response. On the basis of experience with a test model, there is good correlation between the theoretical and the experimental methods. While the latter is accurate over only very short distances, the usefulness of the technique can be extended as needed by operating the system in piecewise linear fashion. The nonlinearity of the coil inductance can be handled under computer control by including in the program the inductances for successive segments of travel."
"The IBM Magnetic Tape SELECTRIC Composer (MT/SC) is a direct-impression (or “cold-type”) typesetting system that combines the recording capabilities and automatic operation of the Magnetic Tape SELECTRIC Typewriter with the proportional spacing, justification and multiple-type-size features of the SELECTRIC Composer. Intended to permit high-volume, high-quality composition at moderate cost for users of offset printing methods, its design and development are described in this paper."
"A mathematical analysis is presented on the measurement of an impurity atom distribution in silicon by the differential capacitance technique. This analysis shows some inherent errors that can arise when the technique is applied to material containing a small impurity atom density. An important conclusion is that the differential capacitance measurement establishes the distribution of majority carriers, rather than the distribution of impurity atoms; therefore this measurement technique is applicable only in regions of semiconductor material exhibiting charge neutrality."
"Reprints of the papers listed here may usually be obtained most eficiently by writing directly to the authors. The authors' IBM divisions and locations are identified as follows: ASDD is the Advanced Systems Development Division; CD, Components Division; DPD, Data Processing Division; FSD, Federal Systems Division; RES, Research Division; SDD, Systems Development Division and SMD, Systems Manufacturing Division. East Fishkill, Endicott, Kingston, Owego, Poughkeepsie, and Yorktown Heighis are in New York; Los Gatos, Palo Alto, and San Jose, California; Gaithersburg, Maryland; Rochester, Minnesota; Huntsville, Alabama; Burlingion, Vermont; and Boeblingen, Germany."
"Many high-speed printers now in the field and under development use a constantly moving chain or train containing the characters required in the printing process. Generally they skip to the next line whenever the last character on a given line is printed. Since individual character usage varies widely, it may be possible to increase the printing speed by repeating high-usage characters more frequently on the chain than low usage ones. This paper presents an analytic method of accurately estimating the printing speed of a chain printer for any character arrangement and describes a technique for determining the number of copies each character should have on the chain so that the printer will operate at or near maximum speed. Using these methods, significant increases in printing speeds have been obtained for actual applications."
"Polymer dielectric films, ranging in thickness from less than 100 A to several microns, have become increasingly useful for basic investigations of surface phenomena and thin film electrical conductivity and for thin film electronic device and circuit development. The preparation and characterizing properties of thin polymer films are discussed with particular emphasis on recent developments in such areas as ultraviolet surface photolysis, electron bombardment, gaseous electrical discharge, and special chemical processes. Previously unpublished data on certain aspects of polymer dielectric films are presented, and present and potential applications are briefly reviewed."
"An algorithm is derived for the numerical spectral factorization of matrices arising in optimal filter design. The method uses a bilinear transformation to convert the factorization problem into a stable nonlinear difference equation of the Riccati type. The computer solution of several examples is presented to illustrate the technique."
"The focusing mechanism for charged-particle beams is analyzed and its mathematical model is derived. Two control concepts for focusing electron beams are shown and the details of the feedback system for automatic focus control in the electron-beam recorder of an IBM photo-digital mass storage system are described (Fig. 9). Included are a representation of the mathematical system and the computer simulation results obtained from the digital simulation program DSL/90."
"The schemes for organizing binary-valued records using finite geometries have been extended to the situation in which the attributes of the records can take multiple values. Some new schemes for organizing records have been proposed which are based on deleted finite geometries. These new schemes permit the organization of records into buckets in such a manner that, by solving certain algebraic linear equations over a finite field, it is possible to determine the bucket in which records, pertaining to two given values of two different attributes, are stored. Since the bucket identification required for the storage of record accession numbers is based on the combination of attribute values, the file does not require any reorganization as new records are added. This is a definite advantage of the proposed schemes over many key-address transformation procedures wherein the addition of new records may lead to either a drastic revision of the file organization or significant reduction of retrieval effectiveness. The search time for the new schemes are very small in comparison to other existing methods."
"New techniques are shown for determining the change in absorption spectrum of molecular liquids when a laser beam is passed through the sample. Two-photon absorption measurements are shown for α-chloronaphthalene. The experimental arrangement (Fig. 3) features a high signal-to-noise ratio and permits study of explicit time dependence of the absorption signal."
"In recent years, a great deal of interest has been centered on the non-destructive measurement of the thicknesses of oxide or glass films on silicon, based on the production of interference fringes by varying the angle of observation (VAMFO—variable angle monochromatic fringe observation1–3) or by spectrophotometric variation of the observed wavelength of radiation.4–7 The film thickness d can be determined from d = (Nλ/2n2 cos θ2) + Δtφ + Δtr, (1) where N is the order given by N = 1/2, 3/2, 5/2, ··· for minima; n2 is the SiO2 refractive index at wavelength λ; θ2 is the angle of refraction in the SiO2; Δtφ is the phase shift correction; and Δtr is the reflectivity correction."
"Reprints of the papers listed here may usually be obtained most efficiently by writing directly to the authors. The authors' IBM divisions and locations are identified as follows: ASDD is the Advanced Systems Development Division; CD, Components Division; DPD, Data Processing Division; FSD, Federal Systems Division; RES, Research Division: and SDD, Systems Development Division. East Fishkill, Endicott, Owego, Poughkeepsie, and Yorktown Heights are in New York; Los Gatos, Palo Alto, and San Jose, California; Gaithersburg, Maryland; Rochester, Minnesota; Huntsville, Alabama; and Boeblingen, Germany."
"A discussion of general-purpose computer programs in theoretical chemistry is given, followed by a description of the procedures adopted in one such program written by the authors. Specific details on the use of the program for computing molecular wave functions and properties for closed-shell linear molecules are presented. The details of a method for computing the axial components of the static electric polarizability and shielding factor tensors are given. A “Table of Linear Molecule Wave Functions” is available, on request to the authors, as a supplement to the paper. This tabulation was made with the program described in the paper and is the most extensive compilation of molecular wave functions currently available."
"When alphabets of digital symbols are used to represent information for data processing, storage, and transmission, redundancy in the alphabets is traditionally used for the purpose of error compensation. This paper deals with alphabets of redundant codes, both binary and higher level, where the emphasis is on using redundancy to produce code alphabets with unique properties in their frequency spectra that can be exploited in the design of the system in which they are used. In particular, techniques are presented for synthesizing alphabets that produce spectral nulls at frequencies 1/kT, where T is the duration of a word element. Some of the interesting alphabets are a 10-word, 5-bit alphabet with spectrum zero at 1/2T; a 10-word, 6-bit alphabet with spectrum zero at 1/3T; a 36-word, 8-bit alphabet with zero at 1/4T; and a 36-word, 8-bit alphabet with zeros at both 0 and 1/2T."
"A two-dimensional mathematical analysis is presented of the electrical properties of the diffused semiconductor resistor. An important conclusion is that substantially more electric current crowding exists within this semiconductor device than heretofore suspected, particularly in the vicinity of the ohmic contacts. Considered in this analysis is the influence on the electrical characteristics of various impurity atom distributions arising from a two-step diffusion process. The results of this investigation are presented graphically."
"This paper examines the utility of four newly proposed positive resists whose processing combines electron-beam-induced degradation of certain polymers and, subsequently, in situ fractionation according to molecular weight. Positive-resist action in four systems formulated on this concept has been demonstrated. Typical sensitivity in electron-beam exposure is 10−4 coulomb/cm2. Two resists exhibit resolution better than 1 micron. One resist investigated in detail yields extremely clean edges in electron-beam exposure, is resistant to hydrofluoric acid etching baths, and appears otherwise applicable to the fabrication of circuit elements of submicron size."
"In dealing with the relationship between human vision and lasers, this largely theoretical paper places particular emphasis upon the use of lasers within the normal operating range of the visual system, and upon the mechanisms by which laser radiation can cause threshold damage to the eye. Parallel but subordinate sections present some fundamentals of laser radiation, of the relevant aspects of the visual system, and of unit systems for the specification of laser output. A new approach to understanding laser radiation damage to the eye is developed by means of a model limited to conditions existing only at the threshold of damage. It is shown that such threshold damage to the visual system is primarily due to the effects of heat alone, but that photochemical effects and acoustic shockwaves can potentially be a cause of the threshold damage that cannot be entirely rejected under all conditions. A theoretical estimate of retinal irradiance for threshold damage is made and shown to be consistent with empirical findings. A survey of empirically determined damage thresholds is presented. A valid method of computing retinal irradiance from a laser is given, and the direction and magnitude of errors in earlier formulations are pointed out."
"One nanosecond room temperature delay times at current levels slightly above threshold have been obtained in GaAs injection lasers using a two step diffusion process. Copper contamination is found to leave the delay time unchanged, but increases the rise time."
"Reprints of the papers listed here may usually be obtained most efficiently by writing directly to the authors. The authors' IBM divisions and locations are identified as follows: ASDD is the Advanced Systems Development Division: CD, Components Division: DPD, Data Processing Division; FSD, Federal Systems Division: RES, Research Division; and SDD, Systems Development Division. East Fishkill, Endicott, Kingston, Owego, Poughkeepsie, and Yorktown Heights are in New York: Los Gatos, Menlo Park, Palo Aaltnod, San Jose, California; Gaithersburg, Maryland: Rochester, Minnesota: Huntsville, Alabama: Boeblingen, Germany: and Hursley, England."
"The IBM SELECTRIC® Composer is a new kind of printing machine, much like a typewriter. This paper outlines the philosophy of design of the significant systems and mechanisms within the Composer and the primary elements needed to satisfy composition requirements, i.e., good print quality in a variety of classical type styles and sizes; variable vertical line spacing; justification; and an output of final copy that can be judged subjectively by printing experts and laymen alike."
"In this paper a discussion is presented on how the IBM SELECTRIC® Composer fits into the evolution of composition technology—from the calligraphers of the Middle Ages to the modern photocomposers. The advantages and limitations of the machine are discussed briefly with emphasis being placed on their meaning for the typographer."
"This paper describes the design of the letter keyboard for the IBM SELECTRIC® Composer. The design requirements were to provide an information transfer mechanism not only for character selection using the SELECTRIC Typewriter printing system, but also for proportional escapement selection and print impact velocity control. The keyboard was required to be exceptionally reliable, to have the positive SELECTRIC Typewriter touch characteristics, and to be consistent with the keyboard layout standards that are familiar to the operator or typist. The keyboard that has been developed has a completely serial operating sequence. Each event in a sequence is positively latched as it occurs, and remains latched until its function is completed. This insures reliable information transfer without compromising speed or input-signal storage capability."
"Because of the large number of type fonts required to support the IBM SELECTRIC® Composer program, it would not have been economical to manufacture separate type elements for each country in which the machine would be marketed. Also, because the total of the standard alphanumeric characters and the typical basic language requirements for all countries is much greater than could possibly be fitted on the Composer's 88-position type element, special Composer fonts had to be developed for various language group classifications. This paper describes the SELECTRIC Composer's development from a single-language system to a multilingual concept and details the problems involved in achieving compatibility, and thus type font interchangeability."
"Because diacritical marks are needed for the Latin and French-Latin type fonts, the IBM selectric® Composer required a means for printing certain characters without carrier escapement. This note discusses the “dead key” and “dead key disconnect” functions designed to fulfill this requirement."
"The design of an impact printing device (one which produces aesthetically pleasing copy) must include an optimal combination of mechanical design and supplies (ribbon and paper). This paper describes the evolution of design for both mechanisms and supply parameters which has led to the present standards of mechanical print quality in the IBM SELECTRIC Composer."
"This paper describes the measurement and evaluation of print alignment for the SELECTRIC Composer, and discusses the suitability of statistical techniques for achieving both. This paper deals extensively with techniques and procedures for collecting data; however, it is not intended to define a generalized method for statistical evaluation. Printing alignment is shown to be described objectively and precisely by the distribution of measured misalignment; misalignment is precisely defined."
"The IBM SELECTRIC Composer's escapement system employs rotating elements, rather than the conventional rack system, to provide the required displacement. This permits the basic unit of escapement to be varied, and allows the number of units per escapement cycle to vary in proportion to character width. In this paper the authors discuss the machine requirements that led to this approach and describe the elements that have evolved. The analysis used to evaluate the design (and modify it to some extent) is also recorded, in a separate section."
"This paper describes the design of the memory backspace system as it now appears in the IBM SELECTRIC Composer. The memory backspace system employs a sensing pawl mechanism in conjunction with the escapement pinwheel and the unit backspace mechanism to provide character-by-character backspace capability. By sensing set pins on the pinwheel, the mechanism “remembers” the location of previously typed characters and permits the carrier to be returned precisely to any print position within the memory “length” without operator measurement or visual alignment."
"Rebound of the escapement system of the SELECTRIC Composer after escapement is limited by the rebound governor, a device consisting of an overrunning clutch and a mass that is coupled to the system only during rebound. The development of the rebound governor is described in this paper and its effect on the escapement system is shown by oscilloscope traces of system displacement versus time."
"This paper describes the development and design history of the SELECTRIC Composer justification mechanism. The authors present a brief definition of justification and how it relates to the printing industry; the requirements imposed upon a justification device that are peculiar to the SELECTRIC Composer; a description of the justification mechanism and its design, development and testing; and a final evaluation of the design relative to the attainment of its designated objectives, both as a mechanism and as a component of the SELECTRIC Composer."
"When high-quality printed copy is desired, the ability to use variable styles of type in one printing system is a fundamental requirement. This feature has existed to a limited extent for some time in low-cost, cold-type printing equipment and typewriters, and has been notably realized in the changeable typehead of the IBM SELECTRIC Typewriter. The ability to vary type size, however, is rarely found in such systems and has been restricted for the most part to commercial hot-type equipment or to manual methods. To remove this restriction in the IBM SELECTRIC Composer, it was necessary to design an index mechanism which would provide variable line-to-line increments. Increment selection was to be flexible enough to accommodate several sizes of type, but it had also to be reliable and easily controlled by the operator. The design which has resulted and is described in this paper is a dual-ratchet, planetary gear system. Platen increments of from 5 to 20 “points” can be selected, and the platen can be indexed manually one point at a time. Other features are also provided, including a “carriage-return, no-index” which permits changing styles on the same line of type without manual “rollback.\""
"High quality impact printing requires that a sufficient supply of printer ink be presented to the print element for each character. It is also required that this supply of ink last for a reasonable length of time. To enable the IBM SELECTRIC Composer to meet the standards considered necessary under these criteria, it was necessary to increase the character yield per ribbon by a factor of two over that which was provided by the IBM SELECTRIC Typewriter. To do this a new constant ribbon tension control device had to be designed to eliminate the inertia and geometry effects associated with the larger composer ribbon spools. It was also necessary to eliminate ribbon feeding on no-print or spacebar operations and to provide various load controls."
"Frequency perturbations in vibrating quartz crystals, caused by externally applied forces, have been investigated for some time. The parameters affecting the force-frequency sensitivity were recently established and evaluated, making possible the derivation of a normalized coefficient Kf. An empirical chart, showing the coefficient Kf for all singly rotated crystals, (yxl)θ, is presented for all directions of force in the azimuth angle ψ. The maximum force-frequency coefficient is found to be |Kf| ≅ 30 × 10−15 (msN−1) for angles θ = +17°, +26.5° and +64°. A crystal cut (yxl) − 18.5° shows a constant coefficient Kf = +5.3 × 10−15 (msN−1) for all angles of ψ. Coefficients Kf (ψ) for BT-, Y- and AT-cut crystals are also shown on separate graphs. The force-frequency behavior of every crystal cut in the singly rotated Y-cut group can be determined from the chart. The chart is a useful tool for the design of frequency standards and precise force-sensing elements. More significantly, the chart provides normalized experimental data to form a basis for a theoretical treatment of the force-frequency effect."
"The magnetic properties of vacuum-deposited multilayer films constructed in a closed-flux configuration in an integrated structure have been studied as a function of: a) film thickness; b) substrate temperature, and c) the character of the conductor metals. It is found the static magnetic properties of the magnetic layers depend on the material in the previous layers as well as the thickness and deposition temperature of those layers. Techniques of optimizing and controlling the magnetic properties are discussed."
"In the dicing of a silicon disk into separate integrated circuit chips, an alignment notch is commonly used to maintain the disk in a precise and stable position throughout the process. This notch is formed in a grinding operation which causes mechanical damage to the crystal structure in the vicinity of the notch. The increase in crystal dislocation density will degrade the performance of any circuit chips located in the damaged area. Hence, it is important to learn the extent of damage in the disk so that the affected region can be avoided during the production of chips."
"This communication describes an approach to tuned monolithic circuitry which utilizes the mechanical resonance of a silicon substrate. The proposed device is compatible with monolithic technology and will operate from a few hundred cycles to hundreds of kilocycles. The basic device consists of a silicon cantilever mechanically deflected by electrically induced thermal expansion. Diffused silicon piezo-resistive elements are used to detect stress in the cantilever and provide an electrical output. Maximum stress and electrical output occur when the cantilever is driven at its mechanical resonant frequency."
"Reprints of the papers listed here may usually be obtained most efficiently by writing directly to the authors. The authors' IBM division and location are identified as follows: ASDD is the Advanced Systems Development Division; CD, Components Division; DPD, Data Processing Division; FSD, Federal Systems Division; RES, Research Division; and SDD, Systems Development Division. East Fishkill, Endicott, Owego, Poughkeepsie, Harrison, and Yorktown Heights are in New York; San Jose and Los Gatos, in California; Boulder, Colorado; Gaithersburg, Maryland; Huntsville, Alabama; and Cambridge, Massachusetts."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"This paper discusses some of the present developments in in situ electronics maintenance by the use of divers and by remote manipulators, and relates the effect of these developments to the operating cost of future sea-floor instrumentation systems."
"In large systems using microwave amplifier arrays, the size, weight, and cost of individual energy sources require consideration of the use of a common power supply and energy storage bank. Complex energy control techniques may be necessary to protect the RF amplifier and to provide isolation of the faulted amplifier from the common energy source. Four approaches are discussed. Three of these are dependent on either the development of reliable arc-free microwave amplifiers or special isolator tubes, gas or vacuum types. A practical circuit using available components is suggested. Its advantages and limitations are discussed. Calculations are presented showing this approach can result in increased system efficiency, improved regulation, and large decreases in the size of the secondary capacitance bank for each microwave amplifier."
"The distortion of a pseudorandom scanned TV signal caused by flutter and skew introduced by the tape recording apparatus is analyzed theoretically. Specifically, the signal-to-noise ratio is computed for a typical system, under the assumption that the distortion can be considered to be additive random noise with a Gaussian amplitude distribution."
"A new magnetic core circuit that is used to supply power in the proper phase and time sequence to a bidirectional stepping motor is described. This circuit will power a standard voltage stepping motor from a nonstandard voltage power supply and includes a means for maintaining a constant energy pulse excitation over a wide range of dc power supply input voltage, a means for supplying power to the winding of the motor on pairs of isolated conductors, and a means for conductively isolating the low-level logic circuits from the high-level power circuits."
"Since no practical method is available for synthesizing radar waveforms, a sizable effort has been directed into studies of the matched-filter response, or ambiguity function, of many waveforms. In this paper, we investigate the class of FM signals whose instantaneous frequency varies in a zigzag pattern. The waveforms thus consist of linear FM segments and are relatively easy to generate and process. The paper discusses the relation between the characteristics of the waveform and the features of the associated ambiguity function. The effects studied include those of signal repetition, changes in the FM slope, phase-shift and frequency-shift coding, and staggering of frequency step and segment duration. Ambiguity functions of interesting waveforms illustrate the general results. These ambiguity functions are computer-plotted projections of the three-dimensional surface above the delay-Doppler plane."
"The basic Fourier integral is studied in terms of the maximum possible harmonic amplitudes, whether or not they actually exist. Graphs that define the pulse shapes in terms of time period, pulse width, rise time, and amplitude are produced. Rectangular, trapezoidal, triangular, and two forms of exponential waveshapes are considered. The discrete harmonic concept is further developed to include the harmonic or noise content in a given bandwidth representative of single pulse and step-type functions. Experimental results that demonstrate the accuracy of actual measurements versus the predicted values are included. Very close correlation can be obtained on pulse shapes, which can be represented by the waveforms cited. Additional text that presents the derivation of the graphs and indicates how other waveshapes can similarly be rendered in graphical form is included."
"By an extension to the theory of sequential detection with dependent measurements, it is possible to develop a sequential probability ratio test (SPRT) to detect changes in regime in a Gauss-Markov process rather than detecting which of the two regimes exists. It is shown how a posterior form of this extended SPRT may be simplified to reduce computational complexity. The simplified SPRT's are in fact modifications of the original SPRT detecting the regime and not the change. The tests are applied to the problem of fault detection in a gyro navigational system; the results of a detailed computer simulation are given."
"Vertical deflections and ocean currents introduce errors into ship's inertial navigation systems (SINS). In the absence of exact knowledge, these quantities may be treated as distance-dependent stationary random processes. However, these distance-dependent random processes enter SINS as time-dependent error sources. The autocorrelation functions of these time functions depend on the manner in which the ship maneuvers. An equation relating the time-dependent autocorrelation function to the distance-dependent autocorrelation function is derived. The time-dependent autocorrelation function is obtained for four different situations. The first two examples are ships steaming at constant heading and constant, but not necessarily known, velocity. The third example involves a ship tracking back and forth over the same path. The last example describes a ship that steams at a constant speed but changes heading in a random manner."
"This paper describes a radio interferometer that can be employed for beaming and attitude determination. It differs from conventional interferometers in that it employs a carrier modulated by a pseudonoise sequence. This enables it to provide an unambiguous angular resolution of the signal source."
"After a short abstract of the theory for the gyroscope, the theory for the gyrovibrator,1 an angular rate-measuring device, is presented. It is shown that, in contrast to the theory given by Diamantides,1 the output signal and the natural frequency of the vibrating body depend on all three principal moments of inertia of the vibrating body."
"The development of an autonomous system for orbital navigation is as much constrained by operational requirements as by the observables and measureables of space flight. In the development of suitable navigational concepts (either implicit or explicit), the data acquisition and data processing facets of the overall problem must be considered. This paper presents an explicit solution to the subject problem that provides a combined manual and automatic capability for all phases of the navigation problem, that is, a scheme that yields a direct measure of orbital parameters through several alternate approaches, rather than one that measures and corrects for deviations from a reference trajectory. The steps leading to this solution are indicated along with a description of an appropriate configuration of equipment."
"A previously reported HF loop antenna array for multipolarization direction finding consisting of two spaced loops is described. The method is compatible with twin channel Watson-Watt operation as an Adcock so that the direction finding process is independent of polarization characteristics of the element pattern. Experimentally measured direction finder (DF) bearings were compared with near simultaneous polarimeter data and conventional crossed loops bearings. A major reduction in polarization error was obtained at the expense of full 360° azimuth response. It is theoretically possible to cover 360° with two similar arrays of the type investigated or with crossed loops elements with quadrature phase shifters."
"The balance-point model for tracking radars has been extended by using the geometrical theory of diffraction to evaluate the magnitudes and phases of the fields received from the scattering centers on a target. Determinate, rather than statistically averaged, expressions for balance-point location are obtained. The glint model is illustrated for a right-circular cylinder."
"Certain fading models have in the past become standard for taking into account the effects of fluctuations in target echoing area in the theoretical prediction of radar range performance. In the application of these models, fading has always been treated as an entirely random phenomenon. In this paper it is noted that this is not necessarily true for radars which have the transmission frequency as a controlled variable, since in that case the fading characteristics of the target may be modified by properly controlling the transmission frequency. A strategy for taking advantage of this possibility is developed and theoretical results obtained by Monte Carlo simulation for a specific logic indicate that gains in detectability of several decibels (relative to what is usually considered optimum) may be obtained when certain realistic assumptions are made for the target fading characteristics."
"An air-ground, ground-air communications system that utilizes a satellite and a central control facility is described. The double-hop pseudo-noise system advantages, including equal sharing of power, use of frequency translating repeaters, optimum multipath rejection, and acceptable power densities on the ground are discussed. The selection of code division is presented together with an analysis of signal-to-noise ratios with a varied input. Modulation schemes are discussed, pro and con, and the effective radiated power versus antenna sizes for several combinations are analyzed."
"This paper discusses the techniques and problem areas associated with the charging of sealed secondary batteries for spacecraft, and the operating characteristics of the modified voltage-limited charging system. An approach is described for the characterization of battery parameters. The method of selection of a suitable voltage-temperature limit, with regard to battery parameters and system performance requirements, is described. A 4 ampere-hour battery system is analyzed, and its capability is defined parametrically."
"Any position on earth can be determined as the intersection of two circles, with their centers located at 0 and 0' on the earth's surface just beneath two satellites. Therefore any flying path can be described as a locus of many such positions. One synchronous satellite can cover 45 percent of the surface of the earth. When an aircraft flies outbound along the earth's surface from the reference point 0, the traveling time of the wave pulses transmitted from the satellite to the aircraft becomes longer and longer, but it is not proportional to the flying distance, because the altitude angle (the intersection angle between the line from the satellite to the measured point and the tangent line to the earth's surface at the point) changes from time to time. The increase of the transit time will be less when flying the same distance over the area near the reference point than it would be farther away. A correction factor cos(90-α-β) should be introduced to equalize the measured distance to the true flying distance."
"The introduction of a satisfactory instrument landing system making use of existing ILAS radio systems would be of great economic value to the airline industry, and to other aeronautical activities requiring flying under low-visibility weather conditions. It is the purpose of this correspondence to indicate a possible solution to this problem of many years' standing, and to comment on the use of existing facilities as the basis for this solution."
"The power spectral density of the intermediate frequency signal in a coherent Doppler navigation radar is derived. The effects of antenna parameters, periodic frequency instabilities, signal two-way transit time, and transmitter frequency modulation noise are considered Several examples based on the measured frequency modulation noise of a solid-state source transmitter are presented. The results indicate the degree of loss in signal-to-noise ratio, and spectrum broadening due to an increase in signal transit time and/or frequency modulation noise."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"The purpose of this paper is to promote the establishment of standards and basic requirements to direct development of preliminary orientational studies for the organic and financial structure, in the incipient period, of a Latin-American Aeronautical Industry, which is urgently needed to be incorporated into the integration plans of the Latin-American Common Market. Immediate action is recommended in view of statistical data analyzed for Mexican import and export values, for aircraft and its spare parts, that give $122 091 000 (U. S. currency) in the period from 1957 to 1964, with an average value of $6.55 per pound. Indices are also given for modern flight equipment in the range of $40 to $60 per pound, with a tendency to increase to the range of $80 to $90 per pound in the next five years."
"The PRSD detector improves radar performance by controlling the distribution of energy in space, thus making a radar adaptive to its environment. An increase in performance over classical detectors may be realized in any of several ways: 1) greater maximum range; 2) smaller minimum detectable targets; 3) higher data rates; 4) lower average transmitted power, which allows smaller size and weight of equipment. The model of the PRSD detector described herein was tested with a semi-agile beam radar, and gave measured field performance improvement (for this particular radar) equivalent to an S/N increase ranging from 5 to 22 dB with a mean of 9.5 dB. This increase is greater than the 5-dB improvement predicted for the system in a white noise environment because many of the field tests were at locations subjected to heavy interference. The PRSD detector was extremely effective reducing the interference. In this paper, we will briefly review the theory of operation, describe the equipment and the method of test, and present experimental data. The data presented here are essential to a complete understanding of sequential detection since a rigorous theory encompassing multiple range bin radar has not been developed at this time. Finally, an extensive bibliography is appended."
"The effect of hard limiting an angle-modulated signal plus narrow-band Gaussian noise is analyzed. Several examples are considered-sinusoidal angle modulation, Gaussian angle modulation, and biphase angle modulation. The general conclusion is that when a zonal band-pass filter is used, which rejects dc and second harmonics, an angle-modulated signal plus Gaussian noise provides the same output signal-to-noise ratio as shown by Davenport for a CW signal plus Gaussian noise. However, when a narrow bandpass filter is used, which has a bandwidth approximately equal to the input angle-modulated signal, an angle-modulated signal plus Gaussian noise has a better output signal-to-noise ratio than a CW signal plus Gaussian noise."
"Many electronic positioning systems, such as hyperbolic navigation and terminal guidance, suffer large errors from reflection and diffraction of their transmitted waves. The hyperbolic system described herein is free of these errors. Utilizing a pair of frequency-swept transmitters, it discriminates against reflections by separating the direct and reflected received signals into distinct sets of beat-frequency components. It is concluded that the system can suppress multipath reflections and provide flight information particularly useful in a high-density environment."
"The influence of bandwidth restriction on the performance of a PCM transmission system is treated. In particular, the relationship is investigated between signal-to-noise, bandwidth, and bit-error probability of an NRZ (non-return-to-zero) signal. The detector used in the investigation contains a device that integrates the signal over the bit period. Theoretical results were obtained by a Fourier analysis of bandwidth-restricted signals and by an autocorrelation analysis of the bandwidth-restricted noise. Theoretical and experimental results are in good agreement."
"Results of an experimental program to determine the characteristics of city noise and its effect on airborne UHF antennas are presented. Coherent sources of energy from communications equipment, radar, navigational aids, etc. are not included in the analysis. Based upon the experimental data, a model of the industrial noise is presented in which an industrial area is considered as a uniformly distributed source of independent radiators. The magnitude of the power density distribution was computed to be 3×10-18 to 1×10-18 W/m2/Hz over the UHF band for all the East Coast cities measured, with the exception of New York City which was 5 to 6 dB higher. Relations have been derived and curves plotted to compute antenna noise temperature increase due to city noise, based upon the metropolitan area and its range from the aircraft."
"The ''extra-path'' error in the measurement of angle of arrival with the radio interferometer is analyzed as a function of target coordinates and baseline B for an exponential atmosphere. By treating the error rather than the measurement and by formulating the error in terms of well-known radar refraction parameters, the necessity for numerical integrations characteristic of earlier approaches is avoided. The table of computed errors shows that angle of arrival can be measured to an accuracy of 0.01 mrad for B≤500 meters."
"The technique of analyzing a set of channel parameters is discussed. Pseudorandom probing (for low-level noncorrelative interference with a typical user) and cross-correlation analysis are employed in the system described. The transfer function of this communications channel is convolved with the autocorrelation function of the probe signal; hence, analysis of the cross-correlation function at the receiver yields channel phase and amplitude parameters on a discrete basis. Implementation of these concepts with a demonstrable engineering model has been accomplished, and laboratory test results are presented."
"The ability to detect the presence or absence of a target is no longer the fundamental design criterion when the vehicle to be tracked is cooperative. In spacecraft tracking or navigation systems, for example, emphasis is placed on post-acquisition performance. Therefore, classical radar theory and design techniques are not specifically applicable. On the other hand, there are optimization techniques for extracting the tracking data from noise that are more to the point. In particular, optimum demodulation theory is directed specifically to the problem of continuously extracting data from a nonlinear modulation process. In this paper, the tracking properties of a multitone PM ranging signal are reviewed and are shown to be nearly optimum for cooperative vehicles. An optimum, but nonrealizable, maximum a posteriori (MAP) continuous estimator of range is derived for this signal. The linearized model of this receiver is the optimum nonrealizable Wiener filter for the data. Interpretation of this optimum nonrealizable estimator leads to a receiver design that is both practical and intuitively satisfying. With the aid of post-detection processing in the Wiener-Hopf sense, almost optimum performance is obtained from the resulting receiver, above threshold."
"For many military applications small, lightweight range finders are required that operate at a high pulse repetition rate. It will be shown that a ranging system with an injection laser in the transmitter can fulfill these requirements. The performance of an optical ranging system employing a pulsed gallium arsenide laser diode transmitter, with peak powers up to 100 watts at room temperature is described. After a brief review of fundamental system parameters, calculations of the range capability of the system are given, based upon the Poisson distribution of photoelectron statistics. A discussion is presented on the experimental support of theoretical analysis."
"An analytical technique is proposed for investigating the effect of antenna pattern shape on reentry vehicle radar altimeter performance. Initially, a method is presented that computes the average performance under all roll positions. This method is then extended to allow performance to be determined at each roll position. Some numerical results are included that show roll effects for a typical antenna pattern."
"The voltage-current characteristic of solar cells that provide power for a spacecraft can vary over a wide range. For maximum power transfer from the solar cells to the battery system a power converter has to be designed that adjusts its input impedance to a value equal to the output impedance determined by the operating power characteristic of the solar cells. This paper discusses a circuit and calculations for a design to match this condition. The proposed power converter is simple, lightweight, and reliable and will be used in the Sunblazer satellite."
"Following the work of Van Trees,[1] the effect of wide-sense stationary clutter on signal detectability with a matched filter is determined. The improvement to be gained by a high time-bandwidth product in the transmitted waveform for the detection of low-velocity targets is clearly shown. The additional noise contributed by the clutter is reduced by a factor equal to the time-bandwidth product. This reducing effect occurs provided that the transmitted waveform is adjusted properly. The optimum transmitted waveform for detection of low-velocity targets turns out to be one whose energy density spectrum is flat over the bandwidth of interest. This derivation is made by a simple application of Schwarz's inequality rather than the application of the calculus of variations that was done by Manasse.[14] Computations were made of the loss encountered by a narrow-band single-frequency waveform and by a wide-band linear FM waveform, each used in a matched-filter detector. The contrast is especially marked for very low target speeds where the narrow-band waveform is very bad. Its loss drops off sharply with target speed while the loss of the wide-band waveform drops off very slowly in comparison. Beyond a certain small target speed, the narrow-band loss is negligible. However, with enough bandwidth, the wide-band waveform can be made to have acceptable loss at all target speeds."
"Earth-reflected multipath interference can be serious for communication between near-earth spacecraft and stationary satellites. It is shown that both the depth and rate of fading are reduced by using narrow-band filters. Curves demonstrate the saving in fading margin; this saving may be crucial in an emergency."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"The problems of engineering professionalism, working conditions, and ethics have long been a subject of much controversy but little well-written material. In this paper, the author attempts to analyze some of the more troublesome of these problems, and offers a few solutions of his own device. Although written in a semi-humorous vein, the subject material deals directly with professional/ethical problems faced by the contemporary engineer working for an employer."
"Several years of study and actual testing have answered many of the previously controversial questions about the application of environmental overstress testing-to-failure as a useful tool for reliability evaluation. The answers included the fact that more than 65 percent of the failures occurring under overstress environments were duplicates of experienced operational failures. Improvements of 5 to 1 in reliability levels have resulted from application of results of overstress tests, which consumed less than 200 hours of actual test time. Overstress tests have also been used as a method of evaluating multiplesource designs. The first in a required series of indices has been derived, which may assist in the eventual use of overstress testing for reliability index measurement."
"This paper is concerned with the communications channel between a planetary flyby or orbiting spacecraft and an ejected probe that is traveling toward the planet. Since the mission requires that a significant part of the probe's transmitted energy be reflected from the irregular planet's surface, we will be concerned with the effect of the scattered signal for line-of-sight communications. The statistical distribution of the received field and the fading rate are considered so that the fading margin may be determined for some required probability of satisfactory performance. Typical examples are given for a Martian atmospheric probe."
"Angular glint produces errors in radar-indicated target direction and in the Doppler frequency. Glint arises from phase perturbations of the radar signal echoed from a complex target, as compared to those from a point target. The phase gradient VΦ represents these glint effects very well. The direction of this vector is that of radar angle sensing. The Doppler shift is obtined from the dot product of the gradient and the target velocity. A procedure that isolates and measures glint phase variations alone, for the inaccessible target, is described."
"Sidelobe blanking systems are useful in preventing acquisition of strong targets in the antenna sidelobes and also in rejecting pulsed interference originating in the sidelobes. The analysis of a common two-channel system is presented in which the relationship between the probability of main-lobe detection and the probability of sidelobe detection are given in terms of false-alarm probability, signal-to-noise ratio, and the ratio of sidelobe levels of the two channels. The numerical results given provide a basis for the selection of the sidelobe blanking channel antenna gain and threshold levels."
"A transmission resonant cavity technique, which is suitable for making measurements of electron line densities and collision frequencies in the ionized wakes of hypervelocity projectiles, is described. With this method electron density measurements can be made over six orders of magnitude. Resonant cavity design requirements and limitations of the method are discussed. Typical data from measurements behind projectiles traveling at speeds up to 6.5 km/s are given."
"Increased sensitivity and dynamic range of the instrumental techniques used in conjunction with experiments on ballistic ranges have brought to the fore many problems arising from contamination in the ranges themselves. This is seldom discussed when experimental results are presented but is frequently the controlling limitation on the accuracy of the measurements. The authors discuss contamination due to dirt and debris resultant from gun operation, gaseous impurities, and projectile-borne impurities as they have occurred at the Re-entry Simulating Range of Lincoln Laboratory. The effects of these contaminants on measurements are discussed and illustrated, and measures for controlling them are outlined. Finally, a particular range operation is described from the standpoint of impurity control."
"The extension of the FM telemetry technique to provide simultaneous measurements of four forces acting on a free-flight aerodynamic model is reported. Developments and procedures required to achieve the accuracy, linearity, and stability necessary for obtaining dynamic stability coefficients are described. System accuracy is believed to be better than 3 percent. Free-flight data, presented in the form of aerodynamic stability derivatives, are in good agreement with measurements taken by conventional methods under the same aerodynamic conditions."
"Recent developments in transducers for measuring heat-transfer rate, pressure, and force, designed for use in hot-shot tunnels, have resulted in improved measurement capabilities. A description of these transducers and their performance characteristics is given."
"A six-component force-measuring balance for impulse wind tunnels is described. The application of semiconductors for force and acceleration measurement, and their mechanical and electronic coupling for the desired operational outputs are given. The dynamic calibration procedures are explained and verified for the conditions encountered in hot-shot-type wind tunnels."
"This paper considers the problem arising from the design of an autopilot for a large booster. The motion-controlling actuators of the booster have both position and rate limits. The problem is formulated as a bounded phase-coordinate problem and analyzed by the ``backing out of the target'' procedure. A method of constructing the optimal control is presented. An example of an oscillatory system with two control inputs is given, and the optimal control is expressed as an explicit time function."
"A collision avoidance system (CAS) has been the goal of the airlines for more than a decade. Both technology and a detailed understanding of the problem developed to a point where a system could be defined. A CAS system using stable time and frequency technology has been defined as a result of the joint effort of the airlines and selected manufacturers. The result of these efforts is presented."
"Present-day collision avoidance systems (CAS) of the time-frequency variety employ modes of operation similar to those of airborne equipment which has been operating in military aircraft since 1959. A fleet operational evaluation of these systems began in 1961 in aircraft of U. S. Navy Helicopter Squadron HS-4, based on the aircraft carrier U.S.S. Yorktown. This equipment utilized a local clock in each aircraft, a separate time slot for each aircraft's interrogation signal, air-to-air coarse synchronization of all stations, and sufficient free-drift stability for time slot keeping. Operational use of one-way ranging with elimination of propagation delay offsets, higher clock stability for open-loop time keeping in the SNS-64 ... AN/APN-169 family of systems began in 1964 in U. S. Air Force C-130E turboprop aircraft. In 1965, use of the EROS I collision avoidance system began during flight testing of F-4 Phantom supersonic aircraft."
"The collision avoidance synchronization system provides a method by which over 1000 aircraft can be accommodated in a 250-mile radius. Information is exchanged at a data rate of once every 3 seconds. Master-time synchronization permits one-way ranging between aircraft with an rms range error of less than 120 feet (36.6 meters) when both use the same master. A maximum error of less than 1000 feet (304.8 meters) rms between two aircraft occurs when each is tied back to a different master and each is at the limits of a hierarchy air-to-air synchronization extension system. An asynchronous backup mode of operation is provided to permit system operation in low-density areas beyond coverage of the master system time."
"The characteristics of a master time and master-time dissemination subsystem for a collision avoidance system acceptable to the Air Transport Association of America are investigated. Selection of a time scale, a ground-station timing standard, and a synchronization technique are discussed. The conclusions are that a uniform time scale is ideal for the application, that a minimum of four cesium-beam standards are needed at each ground station, and that portable-clock synchronization is the only synchronization technique feasible at the present time. Considerations that suggest use of a nonuniform time scale are noted, and means of minimizing the adverse effects of the offsets necessitated by such an approach are described. Both single-master and weighted-average implementations of the time scale are discussed."
"The collision avoidance system (CAS) defined by the ATA provides for the exchange of range, range-rate, and altitude data, as well as the less significant items of altitude rate and north-south and east-west velocity vector data. This paper discusses the CAS message format and presents data (based on McDonnell-Douglas in-flight experience with its EROS system) on the accuracy of gathering the CAS data."
"The use of biphase modulation and Barker data coding within the 200-us range/Doppler transmission proposed for collision avoidance systems (CAS) is described. Following a general discussion of requirements for compatibility between important CAS threat-evaluation measurements and less essential message communications, emphasis is placed on consideration of the binary Barker pulse sequences and the recommended biphase modulation techniques for data transmission."
"Four-frequency channels avoid the prior slot interference that handicaps single-frequency collision avoidance systems of equal message-slot capacity. Crosstalk between adjacent frequency channels is adequately limited If the receiver response to adjacent-channel signals is attenuated at least 52 dB. With 5-MHz channel separation, 48-dB crosstalk rejection was achieved in a test receiver by restricting the RF pulse rise time and decay time to 0.2 μs minimum. Crosstalk resulting from biphase modulation can be effectively attenuated by limiting the minimum envelope transition time to 0.2 μs. The effect of pulse rise time and decay time on the energy density spectrum is discussed."
"The reasoning which led to the particular slot structure defined for the collision avoidance system specified by the Air Transportation Association Collision Avoidance System Technical Working Group is discussed. The objectives were to choose a slot length that would 1) minimize the probability of interference, 2) maximize the capacity of the information channel (as measured by the number of messages received in a unit of time). Interference can be manifested by the garbling of either the collision avoidance message or the synchronization signals."
"The Airline Air Traffic Control Committee CAS Technical Working Group has prepared a technical description of an airborne collision avoidance system. This ATA system is presented in block diagram form with the major functional blocks and signal flow discussed. The ``minimum system'' discussed in the technical description and some anticipated optional additions to the air-carrier system are included in the discussion. A brief examination of some of the factors taken into account in the air-carrier power budget is also included."
"The time required to execute a successful escape maneuver must be deduced from considerations of the following times: time required to gain adequate altitude separation, delay time due to pilot reaction, aircraft servo-system delay, delay due to missed data, delay due to data arrival time, alarm delay due to ṙ errors, time to stop turning, and time to level off. Since each of these times is a random variable, the required escape time must be determined in a probabilistic sense. By assigning appropriate probability density functions to each of the times involved, formulas are derived for the escape times required by the CAS hazard logic. The results of a simulation of 10 000 aircraft encounters verify the suitability of the formulas."
"Signal-to-noise improvement in sampled data systems is a function of the number of samples and the degree of correlation of signal and noise samples. This correspondence demonstrates the power of the autocorrelation function in establishing the effectiveness of digital filtering, and provides a method for determining signal-to-noise improvement factors."
"The purpose of this paper, written in 1954, is to review the facts concerning the application of transistors. During the period 1947-1948, the transistor was pictured by the uninitiated as a magical, tiny new device that in short order would completely replace electron tubes and furnish, for all practical purposes, an indefinite life for equipment."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"A general-decision theoretic procedure for the design of optimum space-time signal processors is developed. Each antenna element output is processed separately before summing. The parameters for groups of 1, 2, . . . , n targets are estimated, followed by hypothesis testing to decide which group is most likely. Block diagrams for one-and two-target estimators of angular location are derived. The technique can be extended to more than two targets."
"A coherent CW superheterodyne radar system operating at frequencies of 9, 17, 35, and 70 GHz is described. The radars are installed on a free-flight range to study backscattering from wakes of hypersonic-velocity projectiles. Each radar is equipped with a focused-lens antenna oriented at an angle of approximately 45° to the flight axis. Amplitude and phase of the received signal are recorded separately. Some typical results are given to demonstrate the capabilities of the equipment."
"A method for measuring model forces in the shock tunnel by means of an acceleration-compensated balance has been reported by the authors.1 Since that time, a continuing program of research and development on advanced shock-tunnel instrumentation at Cornell Aeronautical Laboratory, Inc. has led to a promising new balance configuration. This balance is inherently more compact than previous designs, and allows testing of higher lift/drag (L/D) configurations than before. The increased high-pressure capability of the shock tunnel, and the growing recognition of the importance of the shock tunnel as a means of generating large Reynolds number flow, have thus added to the importance of this new higher load, more compact balance concept. An experimental balance has been built and calibrated. The performance of this balance is presented in this paper."
"This paper discusses the interrelationships among the ranging capability of a laser ranging system, the beamwidth of the transmitter, and the system pointing error. Since, in general, the system pointing error is statistical, the probability of successful ranging can be determined by means of these interrelationships, as is illustrated in a detailed analysis of a laser ranging system in which a gimbaled mirror is employed as an optical relay."
"Measurement of phenomena associated with free-flight models in ballistic ranges has been made possible with the development of a stable on-board miniaturized telemetry system that will withstand large gun-launch accelerations. The results of body temperature measurements behind the stagnation point with thin-film temperature gauges are presented and compared to theoretical predictions. The accuracy of these results is discussed in terms of possible sources of error. A description of the construction and calibration of the temperature gauge is included."
"The quadratic performance criterion, linear optimal control problem is reformulated to incorporate constraints on trajectory sensitivity. The open-loop solution is obtained for sensitivity functions defined for small plant-parameter variations. This approach has provided a beginning for other attempts to solve the low-sensitivity analytical design problem, as reported in the references."
"An instrument for measuring shear forces in hypersonic wind-tunnel flow is described. Unique mechanical deflection-spring applications with inductive displacement pickups are used. The ability to analyze and remove the unwanted effects is demonstrated for the novel design concept."
"A simple method of generating a coherent linear frequency-modulated pulse, suitable for use in a radar pulse-compression system, is described. The method, termed CLFM, employs a swept-frequency oscillator with closed-loop control of its phase. The phase-error voltages for the loop are obtained by sampling the waveform at regular intervals. The sampling technique itself is unconventional and avoids the need for large bandwidth circuitry. Results obtained with a demonstration model of the CLFM, generating a signal with a time-bandwidth product of 1000, are described."
"The exploration of our nearest planets will require relaying large amounts of data to Earth for study and evaluation. However, our ability to communicate at interplanetary distances is limited. In this paper, an evaluation is made of our capability to communicate from the vicinity of Mars using the present S-band deep-space network, prospects for enhancing that performance, and limitations beyond which no additional improvement seems feasible. In addition, requirements for real-time television are evaluated and prospects for improving the communication rates by operating at higher microwave frequencies considered."
"The method by which the antenna beam-shape factor is taken into account in scanning radars has been reexamined. The ``conventional'' method is shown to give results within ±0.25 dB of the ``correct'' results, which provides ample justification of its use over the past years. However, by basing the procedure on the assumption of a properly matched postdetection integrator, and leaving the question of nonoptimum postdetection integration to be treated as a separate problem, somewhat more accurate results can be obtained. This study has also called attention to the fact that a mismatched postdetection integrator results in only half the degradation in performance that a corresponding predetection mismatch would cause."
"Frequency agility with random frequency in each pulse gives an improvement in radar angle tracking with a monopulse radar. With a conical-scan tracking radar, the glint error is reduced but fading error can be increased, and the net result must be studied in each case. A theory, usable for calculating angle tracking errors with a frequency agile radar, is given, and two examples showing the error reduction are presented. According to the theory, one part of the glint or fading spectra is ``smeared out'' to half the pulse repetition frequency. Another part, the size of which depends on the degree of correlation between pulses, keeps the form of the original spectrum."
"Although the properties of the linear FM signal have been studied previously in considerable detail, such studies have involved rather narrow aspects of the theory. This paper extends the work in several respects. By presenting three-dimensional projections of the conventional ambiguity function of the linear FM signal in more detail than was available before, we can study the sidelobe behavior off as well as on the axes, without weighting, with unilateral weighting in the receiver, and with bilateral weighting. These plots reveal interesting properties related to the signal symmetry in time and frequency. The matched-filter response is then extended to include Doppler distortions of the modulation function. The results show that Woodward's ambiguity function is valid only for signals with relatively modest sophistication, even though in most practical situations one is interested only in those undistorted parts of the matched-filter response in the vicinity of the delay axis. Plots of the response are presented for various degrees of distortion, for signals with and without weighting. Lastly, we consider the effects of a mismatch in range acceleration, again for the various cases of interest. The results convey a thorough insight into the properties of chirp radar under a broad range of operational conditions."
"Curves and equations are presented from which the exact performance of truncated sequential tests can be determined for one important case: the biased square-law detector for the detection of rapidly fading targets. The method of generating functions is used to derive probability distributions for sample size. It is shown how these probability distributions can be used to determine truncation errors and the effects of multiple-resolution elements. Sample calculations are performed to determine the effects of a particular truncation procedure."
"The problem of multiple-target resolution and parameter estimation is formulated in a decision theoretic context. The estimation portion of the problem is explicitly solved and experimentally implemented. The results show that it is possible to obtain accurate parameter estimates for targets separated as close as a quarter of a 3-dB beamwidth. This resolution was obtained for reasonable SNR's and with a system that utilized only commercially available components."
"Computer requirements for future space missions are developed and three different approaches to multiprocessing computer organizations are presented. These approaches are shown to have considerable advantages over conventional computers for advanced space missions. Reliability requirements also are assessed by a simulation method and shown to be attainable for long-duration missions."
"A brief statement of the sea clutter problem in surface-search radar operation illustrates the need for some form of signal-to-clutter enhancement. Post-detection integration used in the simpler radars is limited by the pulse-to-pulse correlation of the clutter. Analysis of the effect of changing frequency from pulse to pulse leads to an expression for the correlation between pulses in the sequence. Knowing this correlation, the reduction in the fluctuating clutter component produced by integration can be determined. This is described by an equivalent number of independent pulses, Nc. For the particular case of sinusoidal modulation of the transmitted frequency, N6 is computed. The critical dependecne of Nc upon the modulating frequency fm is illustrated by spectrum photographs. Choice of an optimum fm is discussed. The results of computations of N4 for optimum fm are presented as a family of normalized curves. These data permit the tradeoff of the radar parameters against their quantitative effect on radar performance."
"A train of radar pulses from one resolution cell can be processed coherently to reject echoes from external clutter and detect targets moving radially with respect to the clutter. Optimum methods of signal processing are defined for systems in which the interpulse spacings are multiply staggered to avoid target blind speeds. Likelihood ratio tests are developed for systems in which the target Doppler frequency is known a priori and for systems employing a bank of filters to cover the target Doppler band. To implement such tests, the N pulses in the train are added with complex weights and the amplitude of the sum compared with a detection threshold. The set of weights which maximizes the average signal-to-clutter ratio is also computed for a single-filter system with unknown target Doppler frequency. When the clutter autocorrelation function is exponential, the clutter covariance matrix can be inverted analytically. This latter result is useful for comparing different interpulse-spacing codes for a particular system application."
"Many digital techniques are available for providing a desired shift in frequency of a given carrier signal, but the resulting output usually contains spurious harmonic content due to the digital means employed. This correspondence discusses a digital device which provides a variable shift in frequency of a given carrier signal, with the feature that no spurious harmonic content exists in the output."
"For optimum discriminator detection of PCM/FM with Gaussian IF filter, the error probability is derived and shown to depend only on the signal to noise ratio, E/N0b0τ where E/N0 is the received (signal-energy-per-bit)-to (noise density) ratio, and b0τ is the IF bandwidth and bit duration product (b0τ≥1). The error bound and the optimum generalized frequency deviation are discussed."
"The error probability is derived for a coded noncoherent communication system when the effect of inexact timing is taken into consideration. An approximation to the error probability expression makes it possible to estimate readily the performance degradation due to inexact timing, which is shown to have an upper bound of 2.4 dB."
"A generalized ambiguity function including the effects of Doppler dispersion is defined as the time cross correlation of the complex envelopes of two signals, both derived from the same basic waveform but with different delays and Doppler effects. The Doppler effects include the frequency shift and expansion or contraction of the modulation time scale. This expansion or contraction is the Doppler dispersion. While the general ambiguity function cannot be expressed directly in terms of the Woodward or undispersed ambiguity function, its squared magnitude can be expressed in terms of the Woodward ambiguity function. The relation is not simple, being an integral form. Nevertheless, since the Woodward ambiguity function is known for many signals, the relation may simplify the determination of the squared magnitude of the general ambiguity function. We consider the clutter output of a matched filter or correlation receiver where the receiver is matched to a waveform having a specific delay and specific time compression. The variance of the clutter output is the two-dimensional convolution of the clutter ``scattering function'' with the squared magnitude of the general ambiguity function. This is a generalization of an earlier result which is formally the same but using the Woodward ambiguity function. This last result is generalized for a mismatched receiver. In such a case, the variance of the clutter output is the double convolution of the clutter scattering function with the cross ambiguity function of the transmitted waveform, modified by the average velocity of the clutter, and the receiver reference waveform."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"This paper discusses referenced radio navigation, the concept whereby monitoring stations at known locations are used to calibrate out systematic errors in a navigation system. This concept is implemented by broadcasting calibration data to the navigating user for application as real-time corrections to the position fixes made by the user's basic navigation equipment. A method is suggested for the automatic transmission and receiver processing of the correction data. Referenced radio navigation overcomes many of the shortcomings generally associated with long-distance navigation systems, and can increase accuracy and repeatability significantly. The concept is particularly applicable to global navigation systems such as OMEGA, in which propagation or synchronization errors can contribute substantially to the system error budget."
"This paper considers the design of PCM signals with system constraints using Pontryagin's maximum principle. The transmitter signal as well as the correlation signal are determined while maximizing the output signal-to-noise ratio. Both the single and three-pole transmitter filters are considered. An upper bound has been obtained on the performance of PCM signals with constraints."
"This paper summarizes measurements of the characteristics of precipitation clutter. The goal was to provide for the radar engineer a description of the spectrum, the spatial uniformity, and the frequency correlation properties of precipitation echoes. These experiments resulted in a more complete description of the clutter characteristics than has heretofore been available. The wind shear phenomenon was found to have a dominant effect on the spectra at distant ranges. An analytical model for the spectral width is suggested. Other results show that the mean backscatter cross section is rarely uniform in space and that the frequency correlation characteristics confirm the theory predicting that echoes from pulses separated in frequency by at least the reciprocal of the pulse width are uncorrelated."
"Generalized equations are developed to evaluate the effects of interference upon communications systems. Interference may be due to natural causes and accidental or sophisticated jamming. One- and two-way communication systems are considered. The equations are applicable to near and deep space communication links as well as radar in both friendly and unfriendly environments. Both mainlobe and sidelobe reception and collocated and diversely located interference and signal sources may be analyzed. A practical discussion for each of the variables, as well as a sample solution, is included."
"The problem of detecting signals in nonstationary clutter is met by presenting a mean-level or adaptive threshold which adjusts to the changing background level. Such a threshold performs better than a fixed threshold that must be set for the highest amplitude clutter. However, the mean-level threshold does not perform as well for stationary noise as a fixed threshold set at the proper value. One measure of effectiveness of an adaptive threshold is its performance in stationary noise (compared to the optimum fixed threshold) for a specified speed of response. For the mean-level threshold, a simple mathematical solution is found for the detection probability when the noise is stationary and the signal scintillates rapidly. The performance is evaluated for a wide range of mean-level-threshold time constants and for several false-alarm probabilities. The results are presented graphically. As an example, the mean-level threshold suffers 3 dB in detectability (equivalent signal-to-noise ratio) in the presence of stationary noise as compared to the optimum fixed threshold for 50-percent probability of detection, false-alarm probability of 10-8, and an adjustment time of 15 times the signal duration."
"The amplitude-comparison monopulse receiver utilizes two overlapping antenna patterns to determine the angle of arrival of an incoming RF signal for use in a direction-finding application. The thermal noise introduced by the receiver distorts the signal, causing an error in determining the exact angle of arrival of the signal. The analysis derives an expression for the deviation of the angle output voltage, or the angular error, due to receiver noise as a function of 1) the angle of arrival and 2) the signal-to-noise ratios of the two channels of the receiver. A receiver using a square-law detector and one using a linear detector are analyzed."
"Bounds on the accuracy of unbiased estimates of the angular coordinates of a target, in the presence of a nearby interfering target, have previously been determined. These bounds allow for the angular resolution of two CW targets to an extent limited only by the signal-to-noise ratio (SNR). An SNR of 40 dB will allow two targets to be resolved at less than one-fifth beamwidth (λ/2 X) separation, for most values of target relative phase angles. The maximum-likelihood estimator for this problem, based on the outputs of a plane circular array of receiving elements, is found and simplified. An analog realization of the two-target maximum-likeli-hood processor is presented. This realization has the simple form of two single-target trackers each tracking one of the targets, linked by a decoupling network which accounts for the interference produced in each by the presence of a second target, when the targets are separated by less than a beamwidth. Results of an analog-computer simulation of the system are given and discussed. Finally an application to the finite-size single-target problem is given."
"The construction of a binary timing sequence based on interleaving shorter pseudorandom sequences is proposed and the parameter values giving the minimum acquisition time are found. A comparison is made between the interleaving concept and a previously known scheme."
"Differential error equations are derived for the navigation errors of a local level undamped pure inertial platform that continuously rotates in azimuth. From these, the time response equations for the vector position error produced by a constant level gyro drift error, as a function of platform rotation rate, are computed and evaluated. It is shown that platform rotation attenuates the system position error due to level gyro bias and that this attenuation is a nonlinear function of rotation rate."
"Automatic calibration denotes a system of computer-controlled self-calibrating electrical measurements. Its purpose is to minimize the calibration support required for electrical measurements in maintenance or check-out applications. The system utilizes techniques whereby all electrical measurements are automatically reduced to and expressed in terms of several basic standards. Measurement data are transmitted to a digital computer for computation of the value of the unknown parameter. Automatic self-calibration procedures are carried out just before unknown inputs are measured. Development of instrumentation known as the automatic calibration program, laboratory evaluation unit has been accomplished. This unit automatically measures and calibrates a wide range of the most common dc and low-frequency electrical parameters. Only three single valued, certified standards are included: a 1-V cell, a 1-Ω resistor, and a 1-MHz oscillator."
"Two angle modulated signals (FM or PM) passing through a limiter and then a demodulator are analyzed. The analysis considers the problem of adjacent carrier interference, direct adjacent channel interference (DACI) or cross talk, and adjacent channel interference (ACI). The analysis of adjacent carrier interference shows that if the 3rd order IM is not to overlap the signal spectra, the carrier frequencies must be separated by 2B where B is the bandwidth of each carrier. The ACI analysis shows that the carrier frequencies must be separated by B+2ωm for no ACI, since the demodulator reduces the bandwidth of the 3rd order IM from 3B to 2B+2ωm where ωm is the maximum frequency of each baseband. The DACI analysis shows that DACI does not exist in a PM system and is -52 dB for an ideal hard limiter with no bandpass filter. But the DACI is -58 dB for an ideal hard limiter with a more realistic bandpass filter."
"A new type of omnirange very-high-frequency omnidirectional radio (VOR), intended to be compatible with existing receivers, is described. It is ``inverted'' in the sense that reference phase is transmitted by AM, as in the Doppler VOR (DVOR). Variable phase is radiated as a rotating square-wave FM field, the radiating elements being concentric loop antennas with circumferences equal to integer numbers of wave-lengths. Each loop radiates one term in the Fourier expansion of the variable phase field."
"The design of an adaptive tracking filter control system and its application to large flexible booster vehicles is described. The problem of elastic vehicle stability is considered along with its solution by conventional and adaptive techniques. The improvement in vehicle stability, which may be achieved with the adaptive tracking filter technique as compared to conventional techniques, is shown. The control system evolved uses two adaptive tracking filters to phase stabilize the first and second bending modes, in addition to conventional compensation techniques. The application of this adaptive technique to a vehicle in which the modal frequencies are in close proximity (<2.5 percent separation) is discussed. The mechanization of the adaptive control system involves the selection of design techniques and components that are electrically and physically compatible with the intended airborne application. The development of a suitable frequency tracking technique and tracking filter is described, in addition to the electronic and mechanical design of the adaptive control system prototype."
"The first application of a magnetic encoder in a space-to-space command link was proven successful in the Gemini rendezvous missions. The functional aspects of the command link and the mechanization of the encoder are described."
"An extensive survey of semiconductor and memory component manufacturers conducted by the Electronics Research Center of NASA and industry has resulted in estimates of the state of the art of components available to designers of on-board guidance and control computers for long-term, deep-space missions for the 1970-1972 period. The vehicle for the survey was the mission requirements for the synchronous satellite, lunar orbiter, Mars orbiter, and Jupiter fly-by solar probe missions."
"Beam splitting for a radar beacon system that scans in azimuth is investigated from a theoretical viewpoint. The video output is quantized into two levels corresponding to a detection and no detection. Further, the antenna sensitivity profile is described by sin ϕ/ϕ. For this system, a digital method of beam splitting that minimizes angular error is developed. Prior information about the probable location of targets can be included. Both Bayesian and minimax approaches are developed. The minimax estimate of the target azimuth is the average of the angles at which beacon signals are detected. The antenna beam can be interpolated by a factor of 10 when the signal power is 3 dB above the noise and without prior azimuth information The interaction of beam splitting and detection is discussed."
"Experiments were conducted to determine the feasibility of using a passive microwave sensor of velocity/altitude ratio (V/H) as the basis for an aircraft navigation system. This sensor, combined with a radar altimeter, yields the velocity information needed for navigation. Airborne measurements were made with a two-beam X-band radiometer in a C-47 test aircraft. Radiometer signals and auxiliary information were recorded on magnetic tape. Ground-based data processing provided a comparison of radiometer-derived V/H measurements with those derived from independent sensors. Good results (fluctuating errors comparable to experimental uncertainties) were obtained over green farmland, urban areas, rice paddies, and certain desert areas; marginal results were obtained over other deserts and winter farmland. It was concluded that a microwave V/H sensor is feasible as the basis for a navigation system at low altitude over favorable terrains."
"A concept for providing an accurate low-cost inertial reference was presented in a previous paper. Low-cost platform gyros, poor in terms of their drift rates, furnish the space-fixed reference frame. A single high-accuracy gyro, mounted on the platform, monitors the performance of the platform gyros. Consequently, drift rates are estimated, predicted, and applied as signals to correct the platform for gyro uncertainties. This paper features new estimation and predictive techniques."
"A block diagram of a practical system using the sequential detection technique for radar detection of multiple targets is given. The system is designed to obtain better detection probability with a lower value of signal-to-noise ratio for a given false-alarm probability and average transmitted power. The total pulse duration is divided into a number of range elements which are tested for the presence or absence of a target before switching the antenna beam to the next position."
"A general solution to the synthesis of an optimum control that minimizes the acquisition time in type-II phase-lock loops is presented. The result is applied to a loop with a sinusoidal phase detector and to a loop with a multilinear phase detector."
"An analysis is conducted of the behavior of a single and double canceller moving target indicator (MTI) receiver in the presence of concentrated clutter. For the antenna beam, an analytical expression that also takes sidelobes into account has been used. In particular, the effect of limitation in the IF characteristic on cancellation has been studied. As a result, the improvement factor, defined as the ratio between the signal-to-clutter ratios at the input and at the output of the canceller, is considerably reduced by the nonlinearity."
"Factors relating to the choice between homodyne and heterodyne detection systems for optical frequency Doppler shift are discussed. It is concluded that the homodyne system is often preferable when low-amplitude vibrations are being measured."
"The year 1968 marks the 20th year of annual Pioneer Awards made by G-AES and its predecessors. The presentation of the bronze plaque has been one of the highlights of the annual NAECON meetings in Dayton, Ohio, every May. The names of the Pioneer Award winners constitute a roster of outstanding contributors to the field of AES. Biographical-historical sketches on the a ward winners have been appearing annually in the TRANSACTIONS since 1956, serving as source material on many of the great advancements in radio navigation and airborne electronics. It is fitting at this time to collect together the names of all past Pioneer Award Winners and present them here."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"A common but troublesome requirement on radar sensors is the detection of a target in the interference from undesired scatterers, or clutter. Systems with coherent processing of pulse trains are uniquely suited for the purpose because, with pulse trains, it is possible to concentrate the receiver output for particular values of Doppler and thus suppress the clutter by Doppler filtering. This paper discusses to what degree the effectiveness of the method can be enhanced by tapering, or weighting, of the pulse amplitudes. The general results are illustrated by computer-plotted response functions for weighted pulse trains. The clutter suppression efficiency of weighting is calculated both for unilateral weighting in the receiver and for bilateral weighting in both receiver and transmitter. The significance of additional phase weighting is discussed and the results for pure amplitude weighting are compared with publishedwork on phase and amplitude weighting."
"The free-fall space environment can be simulated on earth by using a test apparatus enjoying the property that its center of mass and center of rotation coincide. Such a condition can be realized by appropriately distributing mass about the center of rotation. This paper describes the mechanization and operation of a system that automatically distributes mass about the test apparatus center of rotation to cause the center of mass to be located within a prescribed distance below the center of rotation. The operating concept for the single-degree-of-freedom simulator is presented. A prototype system was constructed and tested to verify the feasibility of the concept. The system functioned as predicted and test table periods in excess of 60 seconds were obtained."
"This paper describes an electronically variable time-elay network that has been developed specffically for time-delay steering of a phased-array antenna. The network consists of microwave dispersive delay lines and two broad-band mixers; its delay is a function of the mixers' local oscillator frequency. The particularly advantageous feature of this network is that its phase is invariant with delay. It can, therefore, be used on a subarray basis, and at IF, without affecting the phase progression across the array. Alternative techniques, such as electron-beam delay lines and digitally switched line lengths, require external phase correction. A breadboard model of the network has been built and tested. Low-loss folded-tape meader lines provide the dispersive delay. The center frequency of the model is 3 GHz; it handles an instantaneous bandwidth of 300 MHz. Delay variation of 25 ns is provided. The spurious responses of the network are 30 dB down."
"The problem of determining target parameters of a known number of radar targets falling in the same range-Doppler-angle-angle resolution cell is examined for the noise-free case. The required minimum number of radar beams is determined, based upon approximating the beam patterns by a Taylor series expansion, both for the general problem and for factorable beams. Signal processors for target position estimation are developed for the two-target case and equations are presented for the general case."
"This paper is primarily an investigaton of a second-order phased-locked loop in the threshold region, with the loop filter chosen as (1/1+τs) or (1+τ1s/1+τs). First-order loop results are also given. Effects of loop parameters, detuning error, and modulation are studied. It is shown that the loop with filter (1+τ1s/1+μs) can be built two ways with same bandwidth and damping. One loop gives much better threshold than the other. The analytical results are supported by computer simulation as well as experimental work obtained by hardware simulation of the loop."
"A stored-program computer could be used to advantage on small scientific spaeeraft because of its flexibility. This paper describes the design and programming of a stored-program computer specifically adapted to this particular application. In order to be suitable for use in a small scientific spacecraft, a computer must have the following characteristics: reliability, low power drain, light weight, small size, problem-solving power, and flexibility. To meet these requirements, a computer was designed that has 1024 words of program memory and 512 words of data memory. The words are 12 bits in length and both memories are randomly accessed. In order to protect the program, the program memory is of the nondestrutive read-out type. The data memory is the conventional read/write variety. The computer is organized such that the power drain is small and less hardware is required by restricting parallel gating of information, number of registers, and number and complexity of instructions. Considerable effort has been devoted to programming the computer. Analysis shows that it takes on the order of two milliseconds to perform one of the floating-point operations. These limitations should be acceptable; the computer is not expected to be required to perform extremely complex or lengthy computations."
"A back-to-back connection of two gyros per axis is suggested that eliminates some of the errors due to cross coupling between the components of vehicle angular rates and accelerations. In particular, the error due to output axis angular acceleration, the anisoinertia error, and the spin reference axis rectification error theoretically vanish. Use of redundant and identical strapdown systems for the purpose of obtaining higher reliability makes this connection practical."
"A comparison is made among normal AM, wide-band analog FM, and PCM as applied to transmission of real-time TV pictures via an electrooptic space communication system. The comparison is based on the requirement to receive a subjectively noise-free TV picture. Based on the results of this comparison, it is concluded that analog-FM subcarrier modulation is the best practical choice for transmission of real-time TV pictures in space via a laser beam. In addition to providing performance equivalent to that of coherent PCM, this type of modulation can be implemented with comparatively simple equipment."
"A technique is described in which the separate techniques of beam sharpening (by synthetic antenna methods) and pulse compression are converted into a single two-dimensional operation, which is carried out with a coherent optical processor."
"This paper describes the design, construction, and performance of an experimental radar, in which an electronically scanned X-band array is employed as the receiving antenna. Backscatter from targets uniformly illuminated from a separate transmitting antenna is intercepted by 128 horn antennas, unequally spaced over a nine-foot circular aperture. The received signals are processed electronically to provide a complete scan of a 30X30 degree field every ten milliseconds. Resulting target images were displayed on a cathode ray tube and recorded on 16-mm motion picture film, for varying conditions of target motion using monochromatic and frequency-modulated X-band illumination. Sequences of motion picture frames obtained from a rotating copper cone are presented, which demonstrate significant changes in the image and side-lobe interference patterns for small changes in target aspect angle. Side-lobe interference effects were reduced by integrating many antenna scans as the target rotated; a clear image of a foil letter R is presented that demonstrated this result. The main objective of this work was to test this radar technique as an approach to target recognition."
"An air traffic control system is proposed in which 1) all aircraft are equipped wit transponders, 2) FAA radar sites broadcast a digitally coded list of the identity, altitude, and coordinates of aircraft scanned, 3) each aircraft on receiving this list converts it into a PPI display with the blip of that aircraft branded and blips of off-altitude aircraft blanked, and 4) superimposed on this display are projected maps of airways appropriate to the particular radar and the aircraft altitude. This system could provide a fairly complete capability for air traffic control, structuring, navigation, and collision avoidance at a cost of about 3000 dollars per aircraft. It would replace most navigational and communication equipment now in use and could be operational in several years."
"This index covers all technical items - papers, correspondence, reviews, etc. - that appeared in this periodical during the year, and items from previous years that were commented upon or corrected in this year. Departments and other items may also be covered if they have been judged to have archival value. The Author Index contains the primary entry for each item, listed under the first author's name. The primary entry includes the coauthors' names, the title of the paper or other item, and its location, specified by the publication abbreviation, year, month, and inclusive pagination. The Subject Index contains entries describing the item under all appropriate subject headings, plus the first author's name, the publication abbreviation, month, and year, and inclusive pages. Note that the item title is found only under the primary entry in the Author Index."
"This chapter contains sections titled: Introduction, Background, Markov Models, Panel Data, Semi-Markov Process"
"This chapter contains sections titled: Graduation, Matrix Expressions for Polynomial Graduation, Life Table Construction by Double Graduation, Interpolation by Evaluation of Determinants, Data Given as Areas Rather than Points, The Estimate of Interpolation Error, A Method for Improving the Life Table, Computing the Intrinsic Rate of Natural Increase, Translation from One Finite Approximation to Another, Stable Populations Changed from One Finite Approximation to Another, Summary"
"This chapter contains section titled: Postscript"
"This chapter contains sections titled: Multiple-Access Comput er Systems, Hardware, Language Bases, Conclusions"
"This chapter contains sections titled: The Linked-Record File, Comparison of Manual and Computer Methods, Elementary list Structure, Applications, Future Applications"
"This chapter contains sections titled: Inadequacy of FORTRAN, Special Languages, DYSTAL, Dynamic Storage Allocation, Erasure of Lists, Advantages of Dynamic Storage Allocation, Head of a List, Complex Data Structure, DYSTAL Syntax, Growth Potential, Available Routines, Applications, Ease of Learning, An Example of a DYSTAL Program"
"This chapter contains sections titled: Half Title, Title, Copyright, Contents, Introduction, Postcript"
"This chapter contains sections titled: Half Title, Title, Copyright, Contents, Introduction, Postcript"
"This chapter contains section titled: Postscript"
"This chapter contains section titled: Postscript"
"This chapter contains section titled: Postscript"
"This chapter contains sections titled: Policy Role of Simulation, Models, Essentiality of Related Time Series, Losses Resulting from Aggregation Prior to Estimation, Necessity of Time Series on Microcomponents, The Significance of Time Series on Matched Groups, Summary Statement"
"This chapter contains sections titled: The Problem of Dissimilar Source Data, The Problem of Lack of Panel Data, The Problem of Coding Errors, The Problem of Data Retrieval, The Problem of Context, Problem of Inefficiency of Tape"
"This chapter contains sections titled: Theoretical and Methodological Problems, Procedure, Results, Limitations of the Data, Conclusion"
"This chapter contains sections titled: Introduction, Analysis of Regression Models, Analysis of Models for Proportions, “Simultaneous-Equation” Econometric Models, Concluding Remarks"
"This chapter contains sections titled: Title, Copyright, Preface, Contents"
"This chapter contains sections titled: Notation, Design of the Reactor for Conversion of Ethylbenzene to Styrene Monomer, References"
"This chapter contains sections titled: Design of the Reactor and Fractionator for Ethylbenzene Production, Distillation Column Design, Results for Other Reflux Ratios, Optimization of the System, Review of the Design Technique, Development of a Computer Program for the Design of the Distillation Column System, References"
"This chapter contains sections titled: General Considerations, Conclusions, Design of a Pipeline for the Transportation of Liquid Sulfur, Design Computations, Final Consideration of Sulfur-Transportation Economics, References"
"This chapter contains sections titled: Data and Assumptions, Analysis of Laboratory Kinetic Information, General Design Consideration, Analysis of Limiting Design Cases, Design Calculations for the Five-Reactor System, Discussion of the Computed Results, References"
"This chapter contains sections titled: Preparation of a Preliminary Design, Preliminary Process Design Calculations, Summary of the Material Balance and Stripper Calculation, Optimization of the Mixer-Settler Process, Summary of the Design Results, References"
"This chapter contains sections titled: Preliminary Design Analysis, Analysis of the Laboratory Kinetic Data, Selection of a Reactor Flow Plan, Comparison of the Five Reactor Cases, Effect of Reactor Temperature on Process Economics, Optimum Temperature Sequence, Summary of the Reactor Design, Heat-Transfer and Reactor-Stability Considerations, Summary of Heat-Transfer and Stability Considerations, Appendix to Chapter 2, References"
"This chapter contains sections titled: Determination of Design Requirements, Comprehension of Market Conditions, Evaluation of Experimental Data, Establishment of the Critical Design Parameters-Simulation and Optimization, Evaluation of Process Economics, Presentation of Design Results, Summary, Notation, References"
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"THIS ISSUE marks the beginning of the ninth year of this Transactions under the present editorial policy. This policy is reflected in the “Information for Authors” section inside each back cover."
"It is common in technological development to identify and explore several approaches to a particular objective so that the best approach may be chosen. The outcome of any approach is uncertain; hence, it is difficult to choose the best one at an early date. To deal with this uncertainty, two or more approaches to the objective may be continued in parallel until a clear choice between them can be made, i.e., a parallel strategy. Such a strategy can provide better information for a decision, maintain options, or hedge against the occurrence of an unsatisfactory outcome. This paper addresses the manager's problem of deciding when to use or continue a parallel strategy. The principal focus is based on studies of 14 projects and illustrates the application, in one setting, of a general model appropriate to the structure of the decision as it is widely faced in practice. It discusses the information requirements for a sound choice between parallel and sequential strategies and the consequences of choosing a strategy on the basis of incomplete information."
"There is continuing evidence of a disparity between the level of educational sophistication (that is, the validity and rigor of the equation “models” by which members of the scientific and engineering communities apply analytical logic to a world of nonpersonal technological problems) and the empirical, immature, and Aristotelian semantic notions entangling and invalidating the often benighted “models” they use in a Second World, the day-to-day world of people, organizations, and people-problems."
"The management of commercial products arising from advanced technology presents a serious challenge to traditional practice. This paper recounts an attempt by outside behavioral scientists to study such problems in one enterprise. Partly as a result of the findings, management has experimented with organizational changes in the cycle of new product development. The findings are consistent with and partially replicate earlier research."
"A statistical model is presented for use in forecasting manpower requirements for a project oriented organization. The model considers proposed projects, with a subjective probability of starting and/or the conditional probability of the starting date, and approved projects with a conditional start date. Expected values and variances are developed for use in consolidating the requirements of all projects into a long-range plan."
"The systems analysis approach has been applied to individual production operations in small technology-based manufacturing corporations. This is, in effect, corporate microsystem analysis and differs conceptually from the corporate macrosystems analysis approach that is popular in current literature. Network models have been derived for such production microsystems and their dynamics have been examined for the common practice of exerting production control through delayed discontinous feedback or feedforward."
"Traditional R & D project cost control systems relate only expenditures with elapsed time, rather than expenditures and achievement with time. Achievement reporting is generally considered separately from cost reporting. A theoretical control model relating cost and achievement with time for R & D projects is developed and described. This model is shown to provide early warnings of impending project failures, a more conceptual pinpointing of the forces affecting these impending failures, and a detailed analysis of the achievement-per-dollar spent. Controlling by dollars-spent-pertime period is shown to potentially yield erroneous conclusions. These results are based on an application of the model to chemical development projects and from an application of the model to a representative sample of chemical research projects at the Monsanto Company. The relationships of these results to the overall development of an integrated planning and control system at the Monsanto Company are shown."
"William J. Abernathy was born in Columbia, Tenn., on November 21, 1933. Ho received the B.S. degree in electrical engineering from the University of Tennessee. Knoxville. in 1955, and the M.B.A. and the D.B.A. from Harvard University, Cambridge, Mass., in 1064 and 1967, respectively."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"THIS IS the best and the worst of times for new products. To prepare for this conference, I surveyed some recent publications on this subject and found, to my dismay, that new products do not always mean the same thing to all segments of the business community."
"The functions or roles of management in our inevitably changing environment are discussed. The evolution of management's role is traced, from that of a programmer of an inanimate, already existing system to that of a system engineer concerned with the process of innovation. This process is the perception, creation, and transformation of relevant science into new and improved products and services. It is suggested that a new view may be appropriate — that of a manager as the selective agent of change — using as an analogy the ecological management of innovation, in which the manager's role is to increase the probability that the adaptive response of the system will succeed."
"Discussed is how a large corporation responds to different levels of product innovation between the time they occur and their introduction into the marketplace. A centralized research laboratory of a diversified corporation has a specific role as an interface between the scientific world, which requires a high level of scientific endeavor, and the business world, which requires innovations to justify expenditures. From the product development point of view, there are weaknesses inherent in operating divisions of a corporation on a decentralized basis and indicated are some of the methods used to overcome the obstacles to transferring technology that result from this organizational structure. The methods used at the various levels of product innovation include 1) “selling” incremental improvements, 2) “applied research” funding, 3) corporate funding of existing divisions, 4) establishment of new divisions, and 5) establishing a corporate entrepreneurial task force to operate across divisions. There are also comments on the effect of an entrepreneur in a key management role and on the effect of competition, presumed or actual."
"The recent report of the Presidential Commission that studied the U. S. patent laws is criticized and it is urged that the U. S. technological community, rather than lawyers, assume a role of leadership in determining what is needed to stimulate invention and protect industrial property. Three questions have to be considered: how to determine whether an idea is in fact new, who should determine the validity of a contested patent, and whether different types of patents should be granted for different levels of invention. The informal application and “first-to-file” procedures, proposed by the Presidential Commission, are also criticized and a novel Patent Office examination procedure is presented for consideration."
"The development of xerography from its earliest stages to its current acceptance in the marketplace is traced. It begins in the early 1930's with Chester Carlson's conviction that there must be a process better suited to reproducing documents than the photocopying and retyping of the day. Ten years later, the Haloid Company (forerunner of Xerox Corporation) recognized the potential of Carlson's successful use of electrostatics to form an image and arranged to develop the process. The numerous problems encountered in the development of xerography include 1) every known aspect of Carlson's invention stemmed from scientifically unexplored phenomena, 2) it was necessary to recruit and motivate creative research people and organize the problems to be solved so that they could be worked on effectively, and 3) the company management had to be continually convinced that a market existed for the product so they would continue to supply the resources needed to complete the research. A great change in approach to product development has taken place at Xerox, as evidenced by the difference between the largely empirical approach by enterprising people that resulted in the 914 machine, and the mature sophisticated task-force development of the 2400 machine series. A major reason why Xerox succeeded is that the significant people involved in the product development process were convinced that they were right and persevered until they succeeded in proving the correctness of their convictions."
"Some of the problems involved in shifting an organization from a research orientation to a product orientation are discussed. Emphasized is the importance of planning in the process, including the evaluation of what the existing company is really doing, where it is going if it continues as it is, where does it want to go, and how is it to get there. After presenting some reasons often given for developing a product line, two are offered which are considered to be most valid: to increase a company's return on its human resources and to actualize the entrepreneurial bent of management. An organization has a character or profile, which depends upon the purpose for which it was put together, and there are four basic factors that can be used to distinguish between organizations. With regard to the development of products, there is stress on the importance of knowing what the customer wants and on the need for a sales organization to provide the necessary information. In the transition from a research orientation to a product orientation, it is necessary to de-emphasize the technical aspects of a product and emphasize cost. As a result, in EG&G's experience, there was little product fallout from Government R&D, or product development by the engineers in that activity."
"John H. Dessauer was bom in Aschaffenburg, Germany, on May 13, 1905. He attended the Albertus Magnus University, Freiburg, Germany, and received the equivalent of a B.S. degree in chemical engineering from the Institute of Technology, Munich, Germany. He obtained both the masters' and doctors' degrees in engineering sciences from the Institute of Technology, Aachen, Germany."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"IT IS probably more than coincidence that three of the six articles in this issue deal with subjects related to personnel in research, development, and engineering (RD&E). A number of factors in the environment and inside RD&E organizations have focused attention on particular aspects of personnel. These factors include the rate of change of the states of the various sciences and arts employed in the aerospace and military fields, the aging of some of our large laboratories (many of which are soon to enter their fourth decade of existence), the environment of inquiry into the effectiveness and productivity of laboratories in many organizations — industrial and governmental, the growth (or lack of growth) in university concentration and output across disciplines, and many others."
"A conventional approach, to job analysis consists of the listing of technical tasks performed in the job and the identification of a number of worker requirements without full assessment of requirements of the total work situation. The approach of this study is that a “job” is a “work position” with three major dimensions, the Technical, the Organizational, and the Communicational dimensions (TOC). An attempt is made to develop a job-design model, according to which variables of these major dimensions can be measured and indices developed. The SAMOA system (Systematic Approach to Multidimensional Occupational Analysis) has been adopted as a label for this methodology. Major Technical variables are complexity and variety. Major Organizational variables are organizational position and supervision exercised and received. Major communicational variables are volume, scope, status level, and complexity of interpersonal contacts. The basic analytical unit is a “cluster” of men whose patterns of tasks performed exhibit a maximum degree of compositional homogeneity, as determined by a computer clustering program, which generates multiple “coefficients of compositional similarity.” “Cluster profiles” are developed which characterize the different clusters in terms of the TOC variables. Different occupational clusters reveal characteristic TOC patterns. This methodology can be used as a basis for the development of occupational personnel classification structures. Model occupational structures will be developed in terms of the TOC variables."
"Quantitative methods are being used increasingly to assist in the evaluation of new product strategies and numerous articles have appeared in the literature dealing with various aspects of this subject. This paper discusses the major considerations in the development of a comprehensive model that aids the decision maker in determining optimal strategies in a new product planning situation. It is suggested that the role of the management scientist should extend beyond the design of the model, e.g., in assisting in parameter estimation and specification of feasible strategies. Other considerations are the inclusion of transient state conditions in the model and the use of the model in both initial and subsequent decision making."
"While an increasing amount of effort is going into the study of the administration of research and development, several facets of the process appear to have gone unnoticed. In particular, we argue that a study of the informal organizations of researchers may offer insights in the administration of such personnel that can lead to improvements in the formal organization. The possibilities explored are presented in the form of four testable hypotheses, which, if shown to be true, have definite implications for the management of research and development. For example, one tentative conclusion indicates a net value in the practice of rotating scientific personnel in and out of administrative positions, appointments being temporary for a fixed duration rather than permanent."
"The first phase of a government R&D laboratory's career guidance program is described. A joint Naval Weapons Center (NWC)-California State Polytechnic College effort, the program is aimed at aiding both the individual and the organization by achieving more effective placement of professional employees through career guidance and counseling. The first phase involved the development of a job description checklist and its use in the functional grouping of jobs held by employees hired four to nine years earlier as junior professionals. Five job types emerged from the study: Analyst, Design and Test-and-Evaluation Engineer, Supervisor-Project Administrator Applied Researcher, and Development Project Engineer. The tendency for persons with different educational backgrounds to pursue each of these job types was examined. Comparisons were also made of the distribution of the job types within the various technical departments at NWC."
"Ninty-nine large research and development laboratories were queried in a study of nonsupervisory technical career programs for scientists and engineers. Sixty-one responded and 48 of these provided significant information. Almost half of the 48 have technical career programs of varying forms and varying degrees of formality. Although technical career titles and structures are not uniform among laboratories, the survey indicated equivalent salary treatment in management and technical career structures in most instances."
"Long-range planning requires the use of a forecast, either implicit or explicit. The Delphi procedure is one method of obtaining an explicit forecast. This experiment was conducted to determine the problems and difficulties associated with the use of the Delphi procedure. It was concluded that the procedure is workable and does not require undue effort to be carried out. Information on man hours required, delays involved, and degree of change of opinion during the course of the procedure is given."
"Presents a biographical entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
"Presents the copyright information for the journal content. May include reprint permission information."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"RECENTLY a number of meetings have been held in the area of management of Research, Development and Engineering (RD&E) during which a persistent question has been raised: “Has the art of managing RD&E improved much in the past 10 to 15 years?” This is a complex question and deserves careful consideration. Certainly the size and scope of R&D programs have increased greatly in certain segments of the RD&E “business.” Projects have become larger and more complex, more diverse specialties have been integrated into deliberate attacks on complex problems, and the ability to respond quickly to the challenge of exploiting new fields and technologies seems to have increased."
"This paper is intended to provide both experienced and inexperienced planners with a common understanding of the underlying philosophy and fundamental concepts of the U. S. Army Materiel Command (AMC) research and development (R&D) planning structure and technical planning processes. It should also assist executives engaged in the management of R&D programs to understand the rationale of R&D technical planning as a means toward improving the quality of decisions in the face of the difficult constraints and uncertainties inherent in the R&D field."
"The development of a new design aid (a computer simulation of a particular engineer's design behavior) is described. Improvement in the engineer's technical performance has resulted from the more extensive and systematic examination of design alternatives, which the simulation has made possible. As a case study of engineering design, this study also represents an intensive effort to identify and to model as many variables as possible, both technical and behavioral, affecting a particular engineer's development of a design project. One of the most significant variables affecting the development of a project is the image that an engineer and his client have of one another. Since a behavioral variable like “image” so strongly influences how a design problem is technically conceived, the distinction between what is “technical” and what is “behavioral” is often tenuous and misleading. The consequence is that realistic improvements in the processes of design will only be made by improving on both the behavioral as well as the technical aspects of design systems and design techniques."
"This paper illustrates the use of an industrial dynamics approach for establishing and revising engineering schedules."
"The advent of large-scale, complex electronics systems utilizing integrated, semiautomatic test equipment and integrated, semiautomatic maintenance support equipment, can cause the determination and definition of the exact configuration of the system to be extremely difficult, if even possible. By extending the concept of compatibility to include not only the interrelationship of equipment to equipment, but also to test equipment, support equipment, and the associated programming devices (tapes, cards, etc.), a sound basis for the definition of configurations can be formed. This paper discusses these concepts in terms of a system composed of modular line replaceable units (LRU's), a test programming tape, a maintenance programming tape, and the maintenance equipment. By assigning an ordered set of numbers to each LRU, and deriving other ordered sets from these LRU numbers, LRU compatibility and interchange-ability can be positively and quickly determined by inspection at all levels of the system. An example is discussed in detail. A mathematical foundation for the techniques is presented in the Appendix."
"The effect of two basic types of organizational form on the stability and flexibility of manpower in companies engaged in research and development for the United States government was investigated. Important criteria for selecting one organizational form rather than another were investigated in order to ascertain which criteria provide the rationale for choosing specific organizational forms."
"Presents a biographical entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
"This index covers all technical items that appeared in this periodical during the year."
"This paper examines two general methods for specifying directed routing patterns in communication networks. Hierarchical routing, as currently used in the toll network, is such a directed routing pattern. However, it is only one member of a large set of possible routing strategies that can be realized by storing, in each office, a list of outgoing trunk groups and an order-of-choice for these groups for each received call address. The general class of routing strategies is defined by this method of realization, subject to the constraint that routing patterns be loop-free. The paper discusses procedures for generating loop-free patterns, for detecting whether or not a given pattern is loop-free, and for specifying “good” patterns from the large number which are realizable."
"A new method of circuit analysis based on the time-scaling of actual circuits has been proposed. Audio-frequency self-analogues of microwave frequency transistors can be constructed using charge control theory, and these accurately model transistor performance in the active region. Scaling of storage times in diodes and transistors requires multiple-lump modeling. The multiple lump model developed by Linvill is reformulated here on the basis of an analogy between charge density in the semiconductor and charge density in the model, rather than between carrier density and voltage. Only two parameters, time constants corresponding to lifetime and a diffusion transit time in the semiconductor, need be specified in the reformulated model. This simplified multiple-lump model should be generally useful for device calculations. We describe a diode self-analogue which is an exact physical realization of the multiple-lump model. Separation of active and saturation region stored charges can be achieved in a transistor self-analogue, so that a single-lump model can be used for the active, and a multiple-lump model for the saturation region stored charges."
"We give a method for determining the distortion effect of a nonlinearity in a feedback loop."
"In connection with the design of transistor circuits, for example, it is frequently necessary to obtain a numerical solution of a system of nonlinear ordinary differential equations. In some cases, these equations possess a property that leads to intolerable computational requirements relative to the use of standard predictor-corrector techniques or general linear multipoint formulas of open type. Here we describe an alternative approach which has been used to solve some practical problems by permitting dramatic step-size increases (for example, a factor of 104). The approach is developed in a way which provides some detailed understanding of why it is useful."
"Let Q(T) equal the probability that a random process, x(t), does not cross the zero axis in a given interval of length T. A family of upper bounds for Q(T) is derived with only weak restrictions imposed on x(t) and it is shown that for gaussian random processes only one member of the family provides useful formulae. Specific results are obtained for x(t) representing a number of interesting random processes."
"This paper suggests an adaptive filter, similar to that used in automatic equalization, for use as a predictor in data compression systems. It discusses some of the applications of this adaptive predictor in digital data transmission. In the event of redundant data input to the system the predictor could be used to lower the transmitted power output required for a given error rate or to decrease the error rate while maintaining constant transmitted power. The action of these redundancy-removal and restoration systems is analyzed in simple cases involving Markov inputs."
"A class of codes for use on the Gaussian channel, called group codes, is defined and investigated. Roughly speaking, all words in a group code are on an equal footing: each has the same error probability and the same disposition of neighbors. A decomposition theorem shows every group code to be equivalent to a direct sum of certain basic group codes generated by real-irreducible representations of a finite group associated with the code. Some theorems on distances between words in group codes are demonstrated. The difficult problem of finding group codes with large nearest neighbor distance is discussed in detail."
"This paper illustrates the basic equivalence of many of the linear data transmission design techniques. It shows the unifying feature of these techniques to be a generalization of Nyquist's original ideas relating time samples and frequency domain constraints. It examines pulse amplitude (with and without constraints on the input data) and pulse shape modulation systems, and shows their relationships. It uses a number of previously-described systems to illustrate the range of possibilities of the very general design approach. This paper presents some new results on noise and channel parameter monitoring and on spectrum shifting by constraining the input data."
"We applied the click theory of errors to determine the performance of a digital FM receiver. The receiver had binary orthogonal FSK modulation in a channel that had a single random-phase echo at the symbol duration. We use practical bandwidth assumptions to show that this error performance is identical to that calculated for a matched filter receiver. Numerical results show, for example, that an increase in signal-to-noise ratio of 10 dB is required to maintain a 10−4 error rate when an echo of half the signal power is added."
"This paper presents the results of a study directed toward understanding the basic distortion mechanisms in transistors. (i) We develop an analytic model for the transistor which describes small signal linear performance and nonlinear effects. The linear model is matched to the measured h-parameters of the device over a wide range of frequency and bias current. We superimpose three distinct nonlinear effects on this linear skeleton model, all approximated to third order terms. (ii) We show experimental confirmation that, for some bias-load conditions, the second order distortion can be minimized and we show that it is possible to simultaneously minimize both second- and third-order distortion under the same bias-load condition. This result also is confirmed experimentally. (iii) We derive and discuss in detail an analytic expression for the optimum load. Based on this expression, we present detailed procedures for finding this optimum condition for any transistor, and give experimental corroboration. (iv) We give a qualitative description of the interaction among these three nonlinear effects based on an analog computer simulation of the model. This description makes it easier to visualize the distortion cancellation phenomena derived in this paper, and indicates a technique for extending the effect to a broad band of frequencies. We conclude that proper use of the distortion cancellation effect can greatly improve intermodulation performance in existing transistors."
"This paper considers the identification and synthesis of linear sequential machines from their state transition tables. Necessary and sufficient conditions for linearity are derived which form the basis of identification tests. A sufficient condition leads to a method for coding the system's state vectors in a fashion consistent with linearity but which does not entail trial and error. The coding process is analytic in nature and allows the coding of state vectors independently of the coding or linearity of the output table. Both the Moore and Mealy models are considered in deriving coding procedures for the input and output vectors."
"The feasibility of using the YAG laser as a tool to thermally machine integrated circuits has been studied. Results suggest that defining the resistor geometry, trimming the resistors to value, fabricating gap capacitors, and defining interconnecting circuitry might be performed by such a laser. Pattern generation by laser machining has been demonstrated on various thin and electroplated films. Vaporized lines (gaps) are readily attainable as fine as 0.25 mil in thin films and 0.4 mil in plated films. Much thinner lines may be obtained under particularly well-controlled conditions. These films may be removed with minimum effect to the substrate surface. The heat-affected region of the substrate may be confined to less than one film thickness. Better laser output control and shorter pulse widths will diminish this thickness. Gap capacitors have been made on sapphire substrates with capacitance approaching 20 pf in 0.04 square inches, and experiments suggest improvements. Tantalum films may be shaped to resistor geometries and trimmed to tolerance by removing metal or by oxidizing the resistive film with the laser. Resistors usually can be trimmed to tolerances of less than ±0.1 per cent. With further development it might be possible to combine these laser machining processes into a single-step, automated fabricating procedure for certain types of integrated circuits. We review some of the technical aspects of this and discuss using Q-spoiled YAG lasers to directly machine masks for photoetching."
"This article gives the performance degradation found by using a computer program to calculate the effects of various processing techniques applied after envelope detection of narrowband Gaussian noise plus a CW signal. Nonlinear processes that we studied are: suppression of low output levels, hard limiting of high output levels, restricted dynamic range of output level, and quantizing the detector output. By modifying the program, we produced performance curves for systems in which a steady CW component was present in addition to possible signals. We also adapted the program to generate performance curves for systems using a square-law detector so that a comparison could be made with the results obtained for an envelope detector. We found that the presence of a CW component, and all the nonlinear processes applied after envelope detection, caused a loss of sensitivity in detecting small CW signals. Quantizing even in as few as 8 levels, however, caused very little additional degradation."
"This paper describes a phase principle for measuring the location or the spectral shape of a discrete radio source. The phase principle is relatively simple to implement and leads to a measurement of location or spectral shape which is insensitive to receiver gain fluctuations. For measuring the location of a weak, discrete radio source, the theoretical accuracy is slightly better than the theoretical accuracy resulting from the Ryle interferometer. For measuring the spectral shape of a weak, discrete radio source, the theoretical accuracy is slightly better than the theoretical accuracy resulting from either the Ryle interferometer or the Dicke radiometer. Furthermore, the implementation of the phase principle doesn't require input switching. Also, the calibration curve associated with the phase principle is independent of changes in the average receiver gains of the two receivers."
"We derive an explicit expression in this paper for the spot noise factor of a perfectly aligned optical heterodyne receiver consisting of a semiconductor photodiode followed by an IF amplifier. We show that this noise factor FR, which is a function of the admittance of the diode, varies as a function of the modulation frequency. We obtain constraints imposed by the photodiode on the broadband noise performance of the optical receiver for any arbitrary lossless interstage network. The integral form of the constraint shows that the noise factor FR cannot be made equal to its optimum value FRO over any nonzero band of frequencies. We give explicit expressions for the amount of tolerance of broadband noise performance obtained with lossless interstage networks. We show that for certain types of approximations, and for a certain transistor IF amplifier usually used in practice, the interstage network which achieves broadband signal performance for the receiver also obtains broadband noise performance. The theory of broadband noise performance we present for optical heterodyne receivers can also be applied to the study of broadband noise performance of other linear systems normally encountered in practice."
"Let τ denote the interval between two successive zeros of a stationary gaussian process having zero-mean and one-sided power spectral density W(f). We shall refer to such an interval as a zero-crossing interval. This brief is concerned with these probability functions: (i) P0(τ)= Probability density of a zero-crossing interval. (ii) F_o(τ) = Probability that a zero-crossing interval lasts longer than τ"
"On page 205 of the February 1968 Bell System Technical Journal, the drawings of Figs. 10 and 11 were inadvertently transposed. Fig. 10 is the drawing with the gate electrode marked −100V, and Fig. 11 is the drawing with the gate electrode marked +100V."
"Silicon diode arrays for use as the electron-beam accessed target in camera tubes for the Picturephone® visual telephone set have been fabricated and their properties evaluated. These targets offer significant advantages over the antimony trisulfide target commonly used in vidicon-type tubes. But there are certain potential limitations which must be dealt with in developing a silicon target. Three of its critical requirements are adequate sensitivity to visible light, low dark current, and junction uniformity and freedom from defects across at least 300,000 diodes per square centimeter. Sensitivity to visible light is expressed here by the efficiency for conversion of incident photons to electrons in the read-out circuit. Conversion efficiencies exceeding 50 percent in the visible region have been achieved by oxidizing or by diffusing phosphorus into the light-receiving surface to reduce the surface-recombination velocity. Diode leakage currents of ≦1 × 10−13 A per diode are required, and are obtained for target voltages up to about 5 to 7 V. Surface generated current dominates in the 8-μ diameter diodes of the array, but this component of current can be reduced substantially by use of (100) surfaces or by hydrogen annealing. Visible defects in a picture can result from leaky diodes or oxide pinholes which cause bright spots, and diodes covered by oxide which cause dark spots. Our best targets show a video display with only a few defects; processing must be improved to eliminate defects completely."
"A charge storage target consisting of a dense array of silicon photodiodes has been described as the image-sensing element in a vidicon type of camera tube for the Picturephone® station set. The target stores a spatially distributed charge pattern corresponding to an optical image in the form of a partial discharge of the reverse-bias voltage of the diodes. The discharge results from leakage current associated with hole-electron pairs created in the silicon substrate by incident photons during the raster interval. Recharging of the diodes to the full reverse-bias voltage along a prescribed raster by the scanning, low energy, electron beam creates the desired video signal. This paper describes creation of the hole-electron pairs in the silicon substrate by impinging high energy electrons. Since these electrons, incident from the side opposite the diode array, create a multiplicity of pairs, charge gain results. As in photon sensing, the discreteness of the array allows preservation of detail in the spatial distribution of impinging electrons. Measurements of charge gain as a function of electron energy and target resolution are presented. Applications in scan conversion, low light level TV, X-ray image intensification, and electron microscopy are indicated."
"Several techniques are proposed in this paper which use a scanning coherent light beam to produce an electrical signal which corresponds to a scanned hologram. The hologram itself is not formed at the transmitting end of the system as a physical entity, rather the modulated electrical carrier frequency corresponding to the spatial carrier frequency of the hologram is generated by heterodyning. An advantage of the hologram heterodyne scanner is that it reduces the spatial resolution required of the camera tube in a holographic television system by at least a factor of four."
"This paper discusses certain important aspects of the noise behavior of a pumped resistive diode containing shot and thermal noise sources. The derivation of the following result has a central role in the discussion. It is shown that the noise behavior of a pumped diode which does not contain 1/f noise sources can be derived in a very simple way from Nyquist's theorem. This follows from the fact that the small-signal terminal behavior of such a diode can always be represented, in the frequency range of practical interest, by means of a connection of two linear and time-invariant networks of which one is noiseless and the other is dissipative, contains only thermal noise sources and is held at a uniform temperature."
"In this work, a planar phased array of circular waveguides arranged in an equilateral triangular grid is analyzed. The boundary value problem is first formulated rather generally in terms of a vector two dimensional integral equation for an array of elements that are arranged in a doubly periodic grid along two skewed (nonorthogonal) coordinates. Dielectric plugs, covers, and loading, as well as thin irises at the aperture, are accounted for in the formulation. Numerical solutions are obtained by using the Ritz-Galerkin method to solve the integral equation. Excellent agreement with experimental measurements using a waveguide simulator is observed. The existence of forced surface wave phenomena in equilateral triangular grid arrays and their strong dependence upon the mode of excitation is also demonstrated. These phenomena are shown to exist at isolated points in the scan coordinates. Reflection characteristics as well as the polarization characteristics of the radiation pattern are illustrated at selected planes of scan for both linear and circular polarization excitation."
"A first order perturbation expansion is carried out in order to analyze the effect of small spatially uniform strains on the lowest order (even) TE and TM modes in an anisotropic dielectric waveguide. This generalizes the results of an earlier paper in which the effects of certain special cases of uniform strain were calculated. Unlike in these special cases, the perturbed modes are, in general, neither purely TE or TM, and one effect of two of the offdiagonal components of the strain is to tilt the plane of polarization and change the relative phase of the two polarizations. To first order, the modes are not exponentially attenuated. Some numerical examples are considered in order to illustrate the results. It is found that, under appropriate conditions, the effect of the small strain may be quite large in relation to its magnitude."
"A method which is well suited for implementation on a digital computer is presented for the solutions of active circuits. Unlike many state variable approaches the state vector is defined as the set of voltages which exist between certain nodes and the reference node. An advantage of this approach is that degeneration in the order of complexity of the network caused by capacitance loops is handled automatically. Any type of controlled source can be specified. From the basic algorithm the circuit is specified in matrix form by inspection using standard nodal methods, and the solution is obtained by a systematic reduction of this one matrix equation. An upper bound on the order of complexity of the network is evident from the network topology or the partitioned form of the original matrix. Inductors are included in this approach by considering the equivalent gyrator-capacitor combination."
"The noncentral chi-square distribution occurs in noise interference problems. When the number of degrees of freedom becomes large, the middle portion of the distribution is given by the central limit theorem, and the tails by a classical saddle point expansion. Here recent work by N. Bleistein and F. Ursell on “uniform” asymptotic expansions is combined and extended to obtain an asymptotic series which apparently holds over the entire range of the distribution. General methods for expanding saddle point integrals in uniform asymptotic series are discussed. Recurrence relations are given for the coefficients in two typical cases, (i) when there are two saddle points and (ii) when there is only one saddle point but it lies near a pole or a branch point."
"Previous work on optimum gain control is extended to an important class of diversity receivers used for digital data transmission through fading media and for radar. As in the single diversity case the optimum gain (which yields minimum average cost of receiver saturation) is extremely insensitive to relative costs of saturation at the upper and lower dynamic range bounds. The sensitivity to relative cost decreases as the order of diversity increases. Optimum gain and performance characteristics are given from which dynamic range requirements for diversity receivers can be deduced."
"Many digital systems, such as PCM systems, data processing and data transmission systems, use twisted ring counters. Most of these twisted ring counters are subject to multimoding. This paper develops tools and methods for predicting all possible modes in twisted ring counters, and derives a general solution for suppressing the wrong modes. Suppression is accomplished by adding a few circuit connections from the output of certain stages to the input of another stage. The paper derives the number of necessary connection lines and their connection points for the various types of counters."
"This paper describes a simple procedure for synthesizing an active distributed RC network which, by using dominant poles and zeros, realizes a very accurate approximation of an arbitrary stable rational transfer function. The network uses a single uniformly distributed RC line with taps spaced along its length. A linear combination of tap voltages is added to the input signal to form the driving voltage for the RC line; the output signal is also a linear combination of the tap voltages. The network offers a number of significant advantages. Since it realizes a nearly rational transfer function, the approximation problem can be conveniently solved using readily available results on rational function approximation. Also, the network uses only one uniform RC line, the transfer function can be changed simply by changing resistor values, and the frequency can be scaled by minor connection changes. Thus one standard network with minor modification is useful for a wide variety of applications. This paper develops the design procedure and derives the various sensitivity functions of importance. Two example designs are carried out: an approximation to a second-order low-pass transfer function and an approximation to a second-order band-pass transfer function with a Q of 100. The sensitivities for the examples are very reasonable and the measurements made on laboratory models indicate excellent agreement with theoretical predictions."
"Experiments to determine the feasibility of using optical heterodyne receivers at the end of long and complicated transmission paths showed that nearly ideal performance is possible. The paths were enclosed, thus avoiding atmospheric turbulence. We set up two receivers, one coherent and the other noncoherent, and compared their signal-to-noise performances and stability. The degree of beam distortion resulting from transmission over a path was determined by comparing the path losses as measured by the two receivers. Heterodyne detection was nearly 80 per cent efficient for a four-mile path involving 63 reflections and transmission through a considerable number of other optical components. Stable heterodyne operation was observed."
"We discuss problems connected with the alignment of gas lenses and present experimental results showing the effects of off-axis injection of a light beam into a beam waveguide (offset a/r ≦ 0.315, r = radius of tubular lens) and of the introduction of various radii of curvatures (R ≧ 500 m) on the shape and position of the transmitted Gaussian beam. The theoretical prediction of reduced beam distortions for nonconfocal geometry was confirmed experimentally. We demonstrated low losses at small bending radii by using 12 lenses as focusing elements within a laser cavity in the bent state."
"Metal-semiconductor diodes with near-ideal forward and reverse I-V characteristics have been fabricated using PtSi contacts and diffused guard rings. Typically, for a device with an area of 2.5 × 10−6 cm2 made on an n-type (111) oriented, 0.35 ohm-cm silicon epitaxial substrate, the forward current follows the expression If = Is exp (qV/nkT) over eight orders of magnitude in current with Is = 10−12 A and n = 1.02. The reverse breakdown is sharp and occurs at the theoretical breakdown voltage of p+ n silicon junctions of the same n-type doping. The premature breakdown observed in nearly all previous Schottky barrier diodes has been shown to be caused by electrode sharp-edge effects. Besides giving sharp breakdown voltage, the guard ring also eliminates anomalously high leakage currents, yet still retains the fast recovery time characteristic common to other Schottky barriers. Typically, the recovery time measured at 10 ma is less than 0.1 ns, the resolution of the measurement."
"This paper describes circuits and devices designed for a real time simulator that was used to study a network synchronization scheme. The simulator represents a system of four geographically-separated stations with compound interconnections. The system clock rate is a function of the states of each local clock and the interconnecting paths. Component parts for the simulation system were built to specifications exceeding requirements of an actual system so that the operating states could be precisely determined. The simulator performed reliably during the series of experiments which provided the data described in a companion paper.1"
"Organic synchronization is a method for phase-locking the signals of an extensive digital communication network. Each clock in the network is made to depend on the phase drift of signals arriving and departing its station. This work demonstrates the practicality of such schemes. A four station simulation operating in real time with realistic parameters for a transcontinental network is used to evaluate various types of linear and nonlinear controls and to study effects of changing clock frequency and transmission delays. Considerable attention is given to the analysis of linear organic systems in order to pave the way for reasonable choices of design parameters and to make the results more easily understandable. The experiments show that the systems are very stable and easy to implement. No difficulty was experienced in starting the systems or in modifying their structures and they were immune to large scale breakdown caused by local faults."
"Control of phase contrast in electron microscope images is presently achieved by fine vernier control of the dc objective lens current. An incremental change δJ in lens current produces a corresponding increment δf in focal length and a focal separation in object space of δLo. Lo is the distance from lens to conjugate object plane so that ΔLo is the axial separation of conjugate object plane and scattering specimen. The defocus phase at the image plane of a ray scattered at angle β relative to the axial ray is $\\chi ={\\vert K \\vert \\over 2} \\triangle L_{\\deg}\\beta^{2} \\qquad \\eqno{hbox{(1)}}$ with |K| = 2π/λ. The phase contrast G in the image goes as $G \\sim {\\rm sin} \\chi {\\vert K \\vert \\over 2} \\triangle L \\deg \\beta^{2} \\qquad \\eqno{\\hbox{(2)}}$ ignoring spherical aberration, astigmatism, etc., for this purpose. Precise control of phase contrast for a spacing “a” = λβ−1 requires that the focal separation increments δLo be as small as 100 å and preferably less.1, 2"
"Air-insulated crossovers for integrated circuit interconnections have been developed which feature low capacitance and dual dielectrics for high yield and reliability. This type of crossover is fabricated using beam lead technology and is applicable to integrated circuit chips as well as substrates."
"The usual design technique for waveguide band-rejection filters uses narrow-band approximations and thus discrepancies generally exist between the designed and measured response, particularly in the fairly wide passband. Nevertheless, this design technique has been used because of its simplicity and because the filter configurations obtained are relatively simple. Lately, a new design technique using transmission line synthesis became available which, theoretically, would yield the desired response. However, the physical realization results in a complicated configuration which leads to certain practical problems. This paper presents a modified technique which simplifies the structure without sacrificing performance. With this modification the design procedure becomes very simple and many of the practical problems can be avoided. This paper gives precise design information and convenient design formulas. Furthermore, it shows that excellent agreement between the designed and measured response can be achieved."
"A new approach to speech synthesis by rule has been formulated and evaluated. A discrete set of symbols (phonemes and stress marks) is converted to a continuous acoustic waveform by a two-step transformation. The first step involves conversion from phonemes to control signals capable of driving a terminal analog speech synthesizer. The second step is conversion from control signals to the acoustic waveform. This paper presents a design for the terminal analog synthesizer and discusses the new features of this device. It discusses in detail the method of converting from phonemes to control signals. It places primary emphasis on determining the formant frequency control signals and the fundamental frequency contour, and presents models for determining these contours from the input data. The paper includes an experimental evaluation of the entire technique in terms of word intelligibility scores and consonant confusion matrices."
"This paper presents the theory of directional couplers using matrix formulation for lumped, distributed, or any linear time-invariant black-box. The starting point is the matrix theory of uniform multiple coupled transmission lines in terms of which are brought in the concepts of characteristic impedance matrix, propagation matrix, reflection matrix, and scattering matrix. Next, we use the results obtained with the theory of multiple coupled transmission lines to derive expressions for the loading impedance and voltage ratios for distributed directional couplers. We do this using the spectral properties of the matrices. Then we generalize the concepts of characteristic impedance matrix and propagation matrix for a class of black-boxes with the aid of the A, B, C, D transmission matrix. We give conditions for the loading impedance and expressions for the voltage ratios, using the spectral theory of the transmission matrix. We discuss the physical significance of the directional coupler effect at all frequencies in a vector-matrix framework and analyse in detail some lumped directional couplers. Finally we discuss hybrid (lumped and distributed) directional couplers."
"This is a summary of data from an extensive analysis of on-off speech patterns in 16 experimental telephone conversations. The on-off patterns are determined by a fixed threshold speech detector having certain rules for rejecting noise and for filling in short gaps (for example, from stop consonants). Distributions are obtained for ten events, including talk-spurts, pauses, double talking (simultaneous speech from both parties), mutual silence, etc. Particular emphasis is placed on events surrounding interruptions. The entire analysis is performed for three speech detector thresholds, since most of the data are strongly influenced by choice of threshold. Observations are made about the influence of threshold on the data, properties of speech invariant with choice of threshold, and differences between male and female speech patterns."
"This study examines the effects of loading or covering a phased array with dielectric materials. It studies in detail the effect of dielectric geometry, dielectric constant, and sheath thickness on the wide angle array performance of an array of rectangular waveguides in the H and quasi-E plane modes of scan. We obtain numerical solutions of the integral equations describing an array covered with thick dielectric material. The results show that we can obtain a match over a wide scan angle for the array by appropriate use of dielectric geometries, and we discuss the advantages and disadvantages of several geometries."
"A further study of the effects of dielectric slabs on the radiation characteristics of an infinite array of rectangular waveguides has been carried out. It is found that, in addition to causing substantial and sometimes beneficial changes in the array performance, the presence of dielectric slabs can give rise to sharp resonant peaks in the reflection coefficient at certain scan angles. The occurrence of such resonant peaks at which total reflection occurs is contingent upon the presence of space harmonics which have surface-wavelike field distribution. Extensive data for both the H and E planes of scan, when the array is covered with a single slab, have been obtained and are presented here. This paper discusses the influence of the dielectric constant, slab thickness, and waveguide wall thickness on the resonant peak location, and points out the relationship between the resonance phenomenon and the surface wave propagation over a corrugated surface. It also presents some further results for the thin sheath and their extension to multiple sheaths."
"A systematic approach to the analysis and construction of channel codes for digital baseband transmission is presented. The structure of the codes is dominated by the set of requirements imposed by channel characteristics and system operation. These requirements may be translated into symbol sequence properties which, in turn, specify a set of permissible sequence states. State-dependent coding of both fixed and variable length is a direct result. Properties of such codes are discussed and two examples are presented."
"This paper describes the over-all system and, briefly, its major components. The system objectives and the design plan used to achieve these objectives are covered. Results of laboratory and field tests are presented. The paper concludes with a discussion of additional development work and system studies now under way or planned."
"The basic blocks of the TD-3 radio system are the microwave transmitter and receiver units. Since up to 140 of these units may be connected in tandem, each must meet rather stringent requirements in order to satisfy the over-all system objectives described in the previous paper. The transmitter and receiver units use solid state semiconductor devices (except for the traveling wave electron tube amplifier in the transmitter), and operate from a single −24 volt battery source. The detailed design of these units is presented here with particular attention to thermal noise, cross modulation noise, selectivity, and equalization."
"TD-3 IF circuits are designed to operate with a carrier frequency of 70 MHz with extremely flat transmission characteristics over the 60–80 MHz band. The automatic gain control of the IF main amplifier and the excess gain of the limiter together provide an effective AGC range of more than 40 dB. The units are designed to provide low noise figures and low AM-PM conversion."
"This paper describes the receiver modulator of the TD-3 repeater. This modulator is a single-diode downconverter with an integral IF preamplifier. Its significant features are the use of a Schottky barrier diode, a waveguide directional filter, two lowpass filters for harmonic suppression, and image frequency absorption. The amplitude transmission characteristic of the modulator is flat to ±0.01 dB for ±6 MHz, and the average noise figure is 6.7 dB."
"The frequency upconverter provides one of the basic building blocks of heterodyne radio systems. In the TD-3 repeater, two waveguide modulators based on a balanced tee hybrid structure provide the required upconverter functions. The transmitter modulator uses high efficiency varactor diodes to convert the IF signal into an RF output. The second modulator, called the shift modulator, provides a 40 MHz shift in frequency between the transmitter local oscillator signal and the receiver local oscillator signal. This circuit uses varistor diodes to obtain simple broadband performance."
"The TD-3 microwave generator furnishes all of the local oscillator power used in a TD-3 transmitter-receiver bay. It delivers an output power of 0.5W at a frequency which can be adjusted to any one of 17 frequencies. In designing the generator special emphasis was placed on reliability, ease of tuning, and on obtaining a carrier with high spectral purity and frequency stability. This paper describes the generator's circuit configuration and operation, and discusses important design considerations and techniques."
"This paper describes the electrical and physical characteristics of 20 new solid-state devices developed for TD-3. Among them are new high-frequency planar, epitaxial, NPN silicon transistors which are used in intermediate-frequency amplifiers and in the FM deviator. The microwave power for the transmitter and receiver is supplied from a three-stage varactor multiplier chain which uses three new epitaxial silicon varactor diodes. A high-quality epitaxial silicon varactor diode pair is the up-converter in the transmitter modulator. A new epitaxial gallium arsenide Schottky barrier mixer diode assures a low noise figure for the receiver modulator. Two point-contact silicon IF and RF monitor diodes were developed using the same miniature package in which the transmitter modulator and receiver modulator diodes are encapsulated. Two very stable diffused silicon diodes provide a stable output from the FM deviator; in-process preaging at accelerated conditions is used to assure satisfactory stability. Two new epitaxial silicon Schottky barrier diodes are used in the IF amplifier-limiter and discriminator circuits, which require a nonlinear resistance with negligible capacitance and recovery time. Stringent voltage breakdown, corona and mounting requirements for the high voltage power supply rectifiers were satisfied by molding two high-voltage diode rectifier assemblies in a high-dielectric plastic. The need for a pure variable resistance in the IF variolosser was satisfied by the development of a new silicon PIN diode."
"The traveling-wave tube is the final microwave power amplifier in the transmitter of the TD-3 radio relay system. The important requirements of this amplifier are to furnish 6 watts power output at 35 dB gain with less than 0.02 dB variation in gain over any 12 MHz channel, to be free of noise and distortion, and to have a long life. The tube contains a Pierce-type electron gun, a helix slow-wave structure with a sputtered tantalum lossy section, and a conduction-cooled uni-potential collector. This new radio-relay tube is packaged with a periodic permanent magnetic circuit as an integral unit, which eliminates the need for beam focusing adjustments in the field and reduces the size of the amplifier."
"This article describes the design and development of the microwave and intermediate-frequency filters, which provide the frequency selectivity required in the TD-3 microwave transmitter and receiver, and of the equalizers, which compensate for amplitude and delay distortions introduced by the filters."
"FM terminals form an important subsystem of long-haul microwave radio systems as the link between the baseband signal and the 70 MHz FM signal. Designed primarily for use on the TD-3 system, 3A FM terminals are also compatible with the TD-2 system on which they are finding wide application. Development objectives included the use of solid-state circuitry throughout, emphasis on reliability, and performance consistent with TD-3 objectives with up to 16 terminal pairs in tandem in 4000 miles. The FM transmitter uses two voltage controlled oscillators at 186 and 256 MHz which are frequency modulated by the baseband signal and heterodyned down to the 70 MHz IF. Transmitter frequency stability is ensured by controlling the oscillator's environmental temperature and stringent pre-aging of critical circuit elements. The FM receiver uses a balanced, parallel resonant type discriminator preceded by two limiters which ensure good AM suppression and wide dynamic range. The gain of a terminal pair is 16 dB with 124 ohm balanced baseband input and output impedances."
"This paper describes the transmitter-receiver test set and the FM termina test panel, designed for maintaining the TD-3 radio equipment, and discusses the instrumentation and measuring techniques used to achieve accuracy consistent with the high performance of the TD-3 system. Circuits of special interest are covered in some detail."
"This paper describes the power required by the TD-3 radio relay system. It discusses the battery plant which serves as the basic source of power, the traveling-wave tube power supply, the regulated −19-volt power supply, the transmitter-receiver test set power supply, the dc distribution arrangement, and the radio grounding circuit."
"This paper points out salient equipment and building considerations peculiar to the TD-3 radio system and in particular emphasizes the important differences in station design that exist for TD-3 compared with TD-2 radio."
"A rate of 0.3 failures per billion hours or less is desirable for memory components in large integrated arrays. This unusually stringent requirement complicates the determination of lifetime from accelerated aging studies. The value and limitations of step stress aging techniques are discussed in terms of experimental results obtained using plated wire memory arrays designed to withstand the high ambient temperatures required for accelerated aging. Step stress aging measurements alone are insufficient for confident lifetime prediction. Therefore, longer term measurements at lower temperatures must also be made to establish the validity of the lifetime extrapolations. It is essential to protect the plated wires against corrosion. Given proper protection a shelf life in the hundreds of years is forecast. The importance of duty cycle on lifetime in exercising the memory is discussed and the results of aging under extreme pulsed magnetic field stress conditions are reported. Criteria for wire selection, with long term stability in mind, are discussed."
"A systemwide survey of the transmission performance of Bell System intertoll trunks was undertaken in 1964. The sample design used for the survey is described briefly. The main purpose of the paper is to present survey results. Thus, the physical composition and some physical attributes of the trunks are given. The transmission measurement procedures are summarized, and measurement results are presented in distributional form for 1000-Hz loss, frequency response, background noise, impulse noise, and relative envelope delay. Among the results noted are an increase in average noise level and a decrease in noise level standard deviation as the trunk length is increased. The frequency response of long trunks is superior to that of short trunks. Measurement results are presented separately for major transmission facilities."
"The thermal response of the T1 transmitter, when excited by a bias current, is analytically obtained. The thermal expansions which produce a decrease in electrical resistance are described. Good agreement with experimentally measured temperature rises and displacements is demonstrated for the early time transients during which the resistance change occurs. The displacements which produce “thermal packing” are found to be a stronger function of the thermal expansion coefficient of the dome electrode than of any other part of the transmitter assembly."
"On-axis gain of antennas with rough reflecting surfaces is computed as a function of rms surface deviation e, correlation distance c, antenna area A and wavelength δ. Gaussian stationary surface deviations, Gaussian correlation functions, and uniform illumination are assumed. Antennas with rectangular and circular apertures are considered. It is shown that a normalized gain can be defined which has the same functional form for both. A principal result of this work is quantitative calculation of the on-axis antenna gain when the normalized variance (4π∊/λ)2 of the rough surface is larger than 4. The off-axis gain is also considered, and it is shown that in the asymptotic limit (as λ → 0), the gain reduces to that obtained by using geometrical optics."
"The major components of an injection-locked-oscillator FM receiver are a linear mixer and a van der Pol type of negative resistance oscillator in a phase-locked configuration. In this paper the nonlinear differential equation describing the receiver output is solved and explicit expressions obtained for the output signal, noise, and controlling second and third order distortions. The input signal carrier is both amplitude and frequency modulated. Signal-to-distortion ratios have been computed and are presented for the case of a noise modulated FM input signal. The results indicate that excellent performance may be expected of such a receiver."
"A hybrid digital transmission system consists of analog repeaters placed between digital repeaters. Joint optimization of the analog and digital repeaters is considered in this paper, using minimum mean-square error between the transmitted and received symbols as the performance criterion. A general hybrid system is considered. The joint optimization problem is solved in closed form for deterministic sampling under two usually satisfied conditions. From the results the minimum mean-square error and the optimum repeater characteristics can be computed for given system parameters. Timing error is also considered. From a general result, it is concluded that in many practical systems it is not only economical, but also optimum, to use identical analog repeaters, and that hybrid systems can be used for either digital or voice transmission with no compromise in theoretical performance."
"The information rate of a hybrid coaxial cable transmission system using multilevel pulse amplitude modulation is studied, assuming that the additive repeater noise has a flat spectral density and that statistically independent message symbols are transmitted. Questions considered theoretically are: (i) Reduction in information rate when some repeaters in an “all digital repeater” system are replaced by analog repeaters, (ii) Number of digital repeaters required for converting an analog system to digital service, (iii) Information rate versus number of added analog repeaters in a fixed digital repeater section, (iv) System sensitivity to repeater output power and noise spectral density variations, and (v) Bit rate versus baud rate and achieving the greatest bit rate. Curves and tables answer these questions. It is economical and theoretically optimum to use identical analog repeaters and uniform repeater spacing for the coaxial cable systems considered. The optimum gain-frequency characteristic for the analog repeaters is the same for both analog and digital transmission. Analog cable systems can be adapted directly to hybrid digital service with no compromise in theoretical performance."
"The nature of the errors in a regenerative digital transmission system is such that a memoryless channel is a poor model for predicting the error phenomena. In this paper we present a model which provides a reasonable approximation to observed error phenomena. The memory of the channel is represented by a Markov model. This model is similar to the model developed by E. N. Gilbert, but several important modifications greatly simplify the estimation of parameters, and make the model correspond more closely to the physical phenomena involved. Bounds for the channel capacity of the binary regenerative channel are obtained. Error separation, block error, and burst statistics are derived. Error model parameters are derived from available experimental data on the T1 digital transmission line and the switched telephone network. The Markov model is shown to provide a good representation of the observed error phenomena."
"Methods for calculating the power in the quantizing noise on digital transmission facilities have been known for some time. A more difficult but unavoidable problem is the effect that this noise has on data signals intended for analog transmission. This paper demonstrates that to assume that the noise will behave as a white Gaussian noise process will always (except for a simple factor) yield an upper bound on the probability of error when no companding is present. We assume that linear detection will be used, as for a PAM system, and the result is true whether or not filtering or demodulation is involved. Results are illustrated by applying them to a model of an existing VSB modem whereby the additional degradations resulting from data set imperfections are included as added baseband noise. A modem operating perfectly would make no errors at all at the higher transmission levels. For example, with no companding, a set with an eight-level eye closed by even 30 percent would not yield errors for input powers down to −15 dBm. Thus quantizing noise is not a basic limiting factor in the error rate for all input levels. A similar rigorous theory is not available for compandored systems, but for special situations reasonable estimates can be made. For logarithmic companding and eight-level VSB transmission, worst case estimates indicate error rates about 10−6 for one link of T1 carrier."
"Several theorems are proved concerning the solutions of equations that arise in the study of resistive nonlinear electrical networks. The first, an existence and uniqueness theorem, applies to equations describing an interesting class of networks which includes certain active and nonreciprocal networks for which the existence and uniqueness of solutions has not previously been established. A method of computing bounds on the location of the solutions is given, and two iterative techniques are presented for computing the solutions. It is proved that the iterative techniques converge for a subclass of the equations which also includes equations describing certain active and nonreciprocal networks. Finally, the rate of convergence of the iterative techniques is compared with that of another well-known iterative technique and some practical computational aspects are pointed out. Computations for two example problems, not reported here, were carried out to show the practicality of applying these iterative techniques to the equations of specific networks."
"Two basic problems in the equalization of data channels using pulse-amplitude modulation are considered. The first of these is to determine just what pulses can be equalized and what the general equalization solution is when using a transversal filter. The second problem is to determine if a simple iterative search routine will converge to a solution if its exists. The unequalized channel impulse response is represented by a polynomial whose coefficients are the sample values of the impulse response. If no roots of this polynomial lie on the unit circle, the channel can be equalized. The transversal filter which equalizes the pulse has tapweight values given by weighted sums of powers of the polynomial roots. Various necessary and sufficient conditions for iterative convergence are developed. Iterative convergence can be guaranteed if the proper linear weighting of the output sample errors is used in adjusting the tap-weights."
"An exact solution for the coupling effects between two waves with a particular complex periodic coupling function is presented; the particular coupling function gives the same wave interactions as constant coupling but at a translated value of differential phase constant. A transformation is given which permits known theory for constant coupling to be applied to the periodic coupling case. Approximate solutions are given for periodically reversed coupling (sinusoidal or square wave) between two waves, and calculations are presented which indicate the solutions are valid for arbitrarily long coupling regions or arbitrarily large integrated coupling strengths. The region of validity for earlier perturbation theory is defined and proved to include the cases of interest for multimode circular electric waveguides."
"An algorithm has been devised that can generate the same stereogram for two (or more) selected surfaces. Prior to this development the only known ambiguous stereograms have been periodic grid patterns that could be perceived at various parallel depth planes. The new algorithm, however, can portray two (or more) selected surfaces of general shapes and the observer can perceive each of these surfaces, but only one at a time. The technique is an extension of random-dot stereograms and it is shown that in most cases adequate degrees of freedom remain for coloring the random-dot texture. Since these ambiguously perceivable stereograms permit the portrayal of both the visible and the hidden surfaces of objects, they are analogous to holograms. However, in the case of holograms the observer has to inspect them from various positions, while for ambiguous stereograms it is the mind of the observer that wanders around."
"The capacity of a beam waveguide can be increased by transmitting a multitude of Gaussian beams in such a way that they are clearly resolved at the receiving end. Various systems with maximum capacity but different crosstalk sensitivity are discussed. Linking the available channels end to end in an optical cavity produces a delay line or storage device. An optimized system is described which has surprisingly large storage capacity. For the analysis of both lens guides and optical cavities, a phase space representation of Gaussian beams is used which avoids cumbersome mathematics."
"A preliminary study of a domestic satellite system is reported. Since the objective was to determine what might ultimately be possible, no attempt is made to relate system capacity to estimated needs; rather an effort has been made to conceive a system to carry the greatest possible amount of traffic. By making full use of modern rocket technology including the Saturn V class propulsion systems, highly directive multibeam antennas operating in the range from 15 to 40 GHz, interference resistant modulation methods, highly stabilized synchronous repeater platforms, and integrated solid state microwave repeater electronics, a very large communication capacity is obtained. For example, using 50 ground stations and 50 satellites operating in bands at 20 and 30 GHz, each 4 GHz wide, a total of 100 million voice circuits, or equivalent, can be provided."
"The path length and path length rate variations in a communications link connecting earth stations on the East and West coasts of the continental United States by means of an equatorial synchronous satellite are investigated numerically and shown to be less than 50,000 feet and 5 feet per second for periods of at least a day (and likely for a week or more) with no station-keeping during the periods of interest."
"Mathematical models relating the gain, cost, diameter, frequency, and rms surface tolerance of ground antennas are developed for both exposed and radome-enclosed parabolic reflectors. Diameters considered range from 15 to 500 feet, while frequencies vary from 1 to 100 GHz. Data from existing installations are used to develop standard cost vs diameter and rms surface tolerance vs diameter relationships. The standard cost is associated not only with diameter, but also with standard surface tolerance. Quality factors are introduced to relate deviations from the standard rms surface tolerances to expected departures from the standard cost curve. The models are completed by the inclusion of an approximate relation for the gain of parabolic reflectors. Each model comprises two equations among five variables. Although they are relatively complex, these models should be valuable to the communication systems planner in considering the gross features of alternative concepts for ground antenna installations. They are intended as guidelines for the conceptual stages of communication systems development, and are especially useful in terms of the trade-off studies they encompass. Three examples dealing with typical questions of this type illustrate their use."
"This paper studies the effect of a dielectric sheath on the far-zone radiation characteristics of an aperture bounded by a perfectly conducting ground plane. An examination of the appropriate Green's function predicts a significant broadening of the radiation pattern in a narrow band centered about that frequency at which a surface wave would begin to propagate along a grounded dielectric slab with the same thickness and permittivity as the sheath. The differences between this phenomenon and what is commonly referred to as a surface wave are discussed. Experimental results are then presented for the broadside and end-fire (perpendicular to the aperture) radiation by a waveguide aperture, from which it is found that the theory does predict the essential character of the observations."
"Four precision quartz crystal oscillators form the heart of a new solid-state precision frequency standard, designed to meet the requirements of the present and next generation of L multiplex carrier equipment. The output frequencies of 64 and 512 kHz are derived from the 4.096-MHz oscillator outputs by binary frequency dividers. A master and standby divider chain form a redundant path linking two of the oscillators and the passive output distribution circuits. Intentional transfers between master and standby channels can be made without introducing significant phase hits at the output. Automatic transfer between channels occurs upon a catastrophic loss of the output signal. Two additional oscillators and dividers are provided as “hot spares” which can be manually patched into service. Critical points in the system are monitored by major and minor alarm circuits, and a very low frequency receiver-comparator provides a means for maintaining the oscillator frequencies to within one part in 109 of a vlf standard frequency broadcast."
"A method of synthesizing a general nth order phase-locked loop is presented. In contrast to conventional phase-locked loops, the circuitry is digital rather than analog. The general circuit consists of an assembly of logic blocks (gates and storage elements) which, when driven by external clock signals, exhibits phase-locked loop properties. These properties, along with high stability and the absence of adjustments, make the digital phase-locked loop ideally suited for use in large systems which use monolithic integrated circuits for microminiaturization. Analysis and synthesis techniques make use of Z-transform methods in achieving the desired frequency response as the realization of an nth order difference equation. A general technique is developed and two specific cases, n = 1 and n = 2, are considered in detail. Analytic results relating to the phase-locked loop's static and dynamic performance are derived and found to correlate well with laboratory results for actual circuits."
"This paper is concerned with the first and second passage times of a stationary random process, I(t, a), consisting of a sinusoidal signal of amplitude (2a)1/2 plus stationary Gaussian noise with a finite expected number of zeros per unit time. This type of random process is present at the output of the IF amplifier of a radio or radar receiver during the reception of a sinusoidal signal immersed in Gaussian noise. Approximate integral equations are developed whose solutions yield approximate proba-ability densities concerning the first and second passage times of I(t, a). The resulting probability functions are presented in graphs for the case when the frequency of the sine wave is located in the center of a band of noise. Related results concerning the approximate distribution function of the absolute minimum or absolute maximum of I(t, a) in the closed interval [0, τ] are also presented."
"The random motion of a particle with nonlinear damping is investigated. The spectrum of the velocity of the particle is obtained by solving the associated nonstationary Fokker-Planck equation and also by using the equivalent-linearization technique. The first procedure yields an exact solution in terms of Laguerre polynomials. The second leads to simple, approximate results which are valid for cases where the small nonlinearity assumption holds. Results obtained by these two methods are compared and good agreement is observed over a large frequency range."
"The time variations of the root-mean-square accelerations, the autocorrelation functions, and the power spectral density functions of 12 strong-motion earthquake accelerograms are analyzed. The results indicate that: (i) strong-motion accelerograms of sufficiently long duration are stationary in the rms sense, (ii) the stationary rms acceleration is a good measurement of earthquake intensity, and (iii) the autocorrelation and power spectral density functions of strong-motion accelerograms resemble those of a narrowband process. Based upon these results, a method of determining the transfer characteristics of a site is introduced. A procedure for generating a filtered, gaussian stationary process to simulate ground motions is developed, and two applications of this simulation procedure illustrate its significance."
"This is the first of two papers which consider the theoretical capabilities of computing systems designed from unreliable components. This paper discusses the capabilities of memories; the second paper discusses the capabilities of entire computing systems. Both present existence theorems analogous to the existence theorems of information theory. The fundamental result of information theory is that communication channels have a capacity, C, such that for all information rates less than C, arbitrarily reliable communication can be achieved. In analogy with this result, it is shown that each type of memory has an information storage capacity, C, such that for all memory redundancies greater than 1/C arbitrarily reliable information storage can be achieved. Since memory components malfunction in many different ways, two representative models for component malfunctions are considered. The first is based on the assumption that malfunctions of a particular component are statistically independent from one use to another. The second is based on the assumption that components fail permanently but that bad components are periodically replaced with good ones. In both cases, malfunctions in different components are assumed to be independent. For both models it is shown that there exist memories, constructed entirely from unreliable components of the assumed type, which have nonzero information storage capacities."
"This is the second of two papers which present information-theory-type results pertaining to the reliability of computing systems designed from unreliable components. Two models for component malfunctions are considered. The first is based on the assumption that malfunctions of a particular component are statistically independent from one use to another. The second is based on the assumption that components fail permanently but that the components which have failed are periodically replaced with good ones. In both cases, malfunctions in different components are assumed to be independent. Just as a channel capacity is defined for communication channels, a computing capacity is defined for computing systems. For both component failure models, it is shown that there are computing systems, designed entirely from unreliable components of the assumed type, which have nonzero computing capacities."
"This article describes an electronic computer self-repair technique which does not require system duplication. It identifies the properties demanded of control hardware to effect this end and considers their practicability. It also decribes a prototype computer constructed to test the feasibility of this form of self-repair, and discusses test results."
"Satellites in equatorial circular synchronous orbit remain fixed with respect to an observer on the earth, while those in a circular synchronous orbit inclined with respect to the equator appear to move in a figure 8. A number of satellites can move on a given 8. Optimum packing for a single 8 is determined; the number of satellites per 8 increases as the 8 becomes larger and as the allowable closest approach between satellites decreases. Several packing schemes using multiple 8's, regularly spaced, are presented. For potential systems using frequencies above 12 GHz, with perhaps 1° closest approach between satellites, the best scheme described here permits approximately six times as many satellites as an equatorial system. An illustrative system serving North America has space for a total of 477 satellites, compared with 95 satellites if only equatorial orbits are allowed."
"We develop a synthesis method which leads to simple realizations of low-pass and high-pass active filters using distributed resistance-capacitance networks. In the low-pass filter there is one distributed network terminated, through a negative impedance converter, in a load consisting of a lumped network or another distributed network. Thus we can obtain a Chebyshev-like low-pass filter which has a faster cutoff than a four pole Chebyshev realization with the same ripple. In the high-pass filter design an additional feedback element is involved. We can obtain a complex pole pair to be placed anywhere in the complex frequency plane except the real frequency axis. Design charts are given."
"The flexibility of modern monopulse radar antenna systems makes possible the independent optimization of sum and difference patterns. The two parameter difference pattern, developed here for the circular aperature antenna, is designed to have nearly equal sidelobes similar to those of the Taylor sum pattern. The difference pattern is asymptotic to a model difference pattern which has the greatest slope (angle sensitivity) for a given sidelobe level. The model function is unrealizable because it has uniform sidelobes which are infinite in extent. The two parameter difference pattern is realizable and is expressed in a Fourier — Bessel series of N terms in a manner similar to Taylor's treatment of the sum pattern. The other parameter, A, controls sidelobe level. Comprehensive tables of the Fourier — Bessel coefficients are given for both the circular aperture series and the difference pattern series. Directivity and angle sensitivity are investigated and found to have maximum values that decrease as sidelobe level decreases. The monopulse system performance using the asymptotic difference pattern and the Taylor sum pattern compares favorably with a maximum likelihood angle estimation system. Development of a line source difference pattern is presented in the appendix."
"Two amplifiers, each covering a different band in the VHF range, were constructed for test set applications. These amplifiers were required to meet stringent specifications beyond the general scope of previous art. These specifications related to the simultaneous availability of relatively large output power, tight linearity, minimal delay distortion across a 40 per cent band, high input and output return loss, large dynamic range, and time stability. The performance problems were solved by using: (i) Quadrature couplers in a corporate structure array to provide a high multiplicity of “paralleled” transistors, yielding both the power and return loss capabilities. (ii) The emitter follower configuration as the basic amplifier element, providing broad band, high level performance owing to the large self degeneration of that configuration. (iii) A “feed-forward,” instead of a feedback, system for error control and noise cancellation."
"The attenuation and scattering of laser beams by rain, fog, and snow have been calculated and measured at 0.63, 3.5, and 10.6μ. Attenuation of the infrared wavelengths by light fog is up to one order of magnitude less than at 0.63μ. But for dense fog, calculation shows that the attenuation at 10.6μ can exceed 40 dB per km. It is found that attenuation by rain can be calculated to good accuracy from average path rain rates provided that forward scattering is taken into account; this scattering reduces the attenuation. Measurements of propagation through precipitation over a 2.6 km path are discussed in detail and are found to be consistent with predictions. The wavelength dependence of attenuation is found to vary from one fog to another because of different drop-size distributions. Attenuation of 0.63μ in rain showers is about 20 per cent less than at 3.5μ and is, of course, much less than the attenuation in fog. But even for extremely heavy rain showers, the 0.63μ attenuation never exceeded 20 dB per km, which is less than the attenuation of millimeter waves under such conditions. Both the attenuation and foreward scattering properties of snow appear to be between those of fog and rain."
"Heat generated by viscous friction in a high speed gas flow in a pipe causes a transverse refractive index variation that can continuously focus a light beam passing through this pipe. The comparatively simple construction, together with the low losses inherent in gaseous guiding media, makes the stream guide attractive as an optical beam waveguide. This article presents theoretical and experimental results."
"To investigate the distortion of a gaussian light beam in a long lens guide a light pulse was shuttled back and forth up to 150 times in a straight underground conduit with lenses (quality λ/10) positioned confocally every 140 m. The pulse was formed by suddenly “dumping” the light stored in a He — Ne laser cavity into the guide. Part of the round-trip loss was replenished by a He — Ne amplifier. In scanning the intensity in the guide cross-section on various round trips of the pulse it was found that the gaussian profile was virtually undisturbed."
"This paper studies the effect of an active control system that introduces corrective transverse lens displacements on the propagation of beams in optical waveguides. The induced displacement of the nth lens is a linear function of the beam displacement at the (n + 1)th lens. Beam displacements from the ideal design position are caused by transverse displacements of the lenses and sensors from their design positions. Expressions have been obtained for: (i) The conditions for spatial and temporal stability. (ii) The rms beam displacement resulting from uncorrelated displacements of the lenses and sensors. (iii) The beam displacement caused by sinusoidal displacements of the lenses and sensors of arbitrary spatial frequency. (iv) The spatial rate of return to the guide axis of a beam injected into the guide off axis. We also show that the positions of beams, other than the sensed beam, are controlled by the system and that the system can simultaneously guide many different sensed beams. We calculate an upper limit on the probability that the beam will not be contained within a given aperture."
"We consider the problem of the transmission of analog data from a Gaussian source over a memoryless channel with capacity C nats per second. The source emits R independent zero mean Gaussian variates per second with variance σ2. These digits are block-coded RN at a time into N second channel inputs. The performance criterion is the mean square error. Let ∊2(N) be the smallest attainable mean square error with parameter N(R, C, σ2 fixed). Shannon has shown that ∊2(N) ≧ σ2 exp (−2C/R) ≜ ∊20 and ∊2(N) → ∊20 as N → ∞. Hence the ideal error ∊20 is attainable in the limit as the coding delay N → ∞. We are concerned with the rate at which ∊2(N) → ∊20, and our principal result is that ∊2(N) — ∊20 ≦ O[(log N/N)1/2]."
"Rearrangeable switching networks are considered as permutation generators. Two-by-two network arrays may be implemented in these networks using a β reversing element. Nested tree arrays of these elements may be used to synthesize rearrangeable switching networks which appear minimal. Multistage network arrays of these elements may be implemented within a single coordinate device."
"This paper is concerned with the transmission of a discrete, independent letter information source over a discrete channel. A distortion function is defined between source output letters and decoder output letters and is used to measure the performance of the system for each transmission. The coding block length is introduced as a variable and its influence upon the minimum attainable transmission distortion is investigated. The lower bound to transmission distortion is found to converge to the distortion level dc (C is the channel capacity) algebraically as a/n. The nonnegative coefficient a is a function of both the source and channel statistics, which are interrelated in such a way as to suggest the utility of this coefficient as a measure of “mismatch” between source and channel, the larger the mismatch the slower the approach of the lower bound to the asymptote dc. For noiseless channels a = ∞ and for this case the lower bound is shown to converge to dc as a1 (ln n)/n. For noisy channels the upper bound to transmission distortion is found to converge to the asymptote dc algebraically as b[(ln n)/n]1/2. For noiseless channels, the upper bound converges to dc as a1(ln n)/n."
"Explicit expressions are derived for the scattering parameters which relate small-signal fluctuations in a lossy varactor harmonic generator of order N = 2n, n an integer. The effect of losses on the stability of the mutiplier is then studied. The very important particular case is then examined in which all the losses occur in the series resistance of the varactor diode, and it is shown that absolute stability is obtained provided the efficiency ηt of the multiplier ≪N−1, because of the particular distribution of the losses at various carrier frequencies. Therefore, the conclusion is reached that in most cases of practical interest restrictions have to be placed on the available circuit configurations to prevent instability of the multiplier."
"A method of analyzing, in detail, the performance of symmetrical Cassegrain antennas has been developed that uses a digital computer efficiently. For a specified antenna geometry and feed excitation, the program will compute and graphically display the amplitude and phase illumination of the subreflector, main reflector, and far-field pattern. These results may be used to optimize antenna performance by changing parameters and observing the effect. Analysis of a Cassegrain antenna with a near-field conical horn feed is discussed as an application of the method. Because the radiation characteristics of the horn are determined by the horn flare angle rather than the horn aperture, broadband performance is obtained. It was indeed found that a 50 per cent bandwidth is achieved with a dual mode TE11–TM11 mode feed, provided the proper phase relationship between the modes can be maintained over the band. For dual mode excitation an aperture efficiency of 70% and a noise temperature due to the power loss at the sub and main reflectors of less than 6.5$dGK was obtained. For a single mode feed (TE11), there was a degradation in the E-plane side lobe levels and a corresponding 10$dGK increase in noise temperature. Excitation in the TM01 mode was also examined for angle-error sensing purposes. Also, the antenna can be used with reasonable efficiency well below the design frequency in which case it functions as a far-field fed Cassegrain antenna."
"Precise measurements made in the 50 GHz to 60 GHz band on a two-mile triangular loop of 2 inch diameter helix waveguide are presented. The measuring technique is discussed in some detail regarding accuracy. A brief comparison of the experimental results with theory is made. The average measured attenuation of the waveguide varies smoothly from 2.62 dB per mile at 50 GHz to 2.32 dB per mile at 60 GHz. Fast variations versus frequency were within experimental error. Several short-radius bends of different angles were measured; losses less than 0.8 dB across the band were observed for a 42° bend made of mitered elbows."
"The statistical characteristics of the fields and signals in the reception of radio frequencies by a moving vehicle are deduced from a scattering propagation model. The model assumes that the field incident on the receiver antenna is composed of randomly phased azimuthal plane waves of arbitrary azimuth angles. Amplitude and phase distributions and spatial correlations of fields and signals are deduced, and a simple direct relationship is established between the signal amplitude spectrum and the product of the incident plane waves' angular distribution and the azimuthal antenna gain. The coherence of two mobile-radio signals of different frequencies is shown to depend on the statistical distribution of the relative time delays in the arrival of the component waves, and the coherent bandwidth is shown to be the inverse of the spread in time delays. Wherever possible theoretical predictions are compared with the experimental results. There is sufficient agreement to indicate the validity of the approach. Agreement improves if allowance is made for the nonstationary character of mobile-radio signals."
"A systemwide survey of the transmission performance of built-up toll connections was undertaken in 1966. The sampling plan underlying this survey is discussed briefly. The results are presented in terms of distributions of background noise levels, 1000 Hz loss, phase jitter, time to connect, and airline distance between end offices. The measurement results are broken down by mileage categories. Comparisons are made with the results from the 1962 connection survey. It is found that noise performance has improved since 1962 while loss performance is virtually unchanged."
"Linearized and feedback-stabilized negative impedance circuits having only R, C, and solid state components, powered in series at intervals along a cable pair, offer new possibilities in bilateral transmission. After discussing the basic negative impedance boosting units and the transmission characteristics they impart to a line (computed, with experimental confirmation), this paper describes a field test of two 32-mile telephone lines, largely 22-gauge, each having an insertion loss of only 3 dB at 1,000 Hz. It also shows means for broadening bandwidth and almost eliminating delay distortion over negative impedance boosted lines. Treatment of this sort adapts them to unusual uses. Examples include converting rectangular to raised-cosine pulses in transmission, without pulse-forming circuitry, and the bilateral two-wire transmission of carrier or pulse signals in both directions simultaneously, without frequency separation."
"Computations of the distortion generated in passing large-index, frequency-modulated signals through symmetrical single-pole and three-pole bandpass filters are presented. The computation is for a bandlimited periodic modulation signal; noise modulation is simulated by the use of periodic noise samples in a Monte Carlo procedure. The convergence of the Monte Carlo procedure is illustrated for the case of the single-pole filter and the results are in good agreement with measurements. Computations of envelope distortion are also presented. These data give the amplitude-to-phase conversion in the receiver containing the filter to within a constant factor, the constant being the AM/PM conversion coefficient of the limiter."
"In linear-real coding, the transmitted signals are (possibly redundant) linear combinations of the data signals. The linear combination of data signals can have a block pattern, resulting in linear-real block coders, or a stationary pattern, resulting in linear-real stationary (shift-register) coders. Stationary coding is shown to be a limiting case of block coding. Both methods appear to be practical for the control of burst and impulse noise. However, stationary coding appears to have some advantages and is the only one we study here. We propose shift register implementations which promise the required precision and dispersion at less cost than tuned RLC circuits. Error properties of both block and stationary coders are similar, but it is easier to learn concepts by analyzing the block coders. When the receiver is able, by using some of the techniques we discuss, to estimate the noise covariance matrix for each codeblock, the resulting noise power is less than that for receivers not using the statistics for each codeblock. Nonlinear memoryless filters, such as clippers, are especially effective when used with linear-real coders. We propose a memoryless filter which attenuates the input signal more severely when a second input to the filter indicates the channel is having a noise burst. If the memoryless filter is designed for the worst case noise, then performance will not degrade with decreased noise when the nonlinearity is odd and monotonic."
"Factoring a matrix and multiplying successively by the factors can sometimes be used to speed up matrix multiplications. This is, in fact, the trick which creates the fantastic gains of the fast Fourier transform."
"Let A and B be sets in Em where B is convex and symmetric about o. Let n points be taken in A and let Bi be the translate of B centered at the ith one. Let Y be the subset of the Cartesian product An, corresponding to the configurations (B1, …, Bn) such that no more than p −1 sets Bi intersect, or corresponding to any similar configuration condition, expressible in purely Boolean terms. The problem of evaluating various integrals over Y generalizes a number of questions in queuing, telephone traffic, statistical mechanics of hard spheres, and so on. This article gives a complete solution for certain special cases, and discusses numerical (Monte Carlo) techniques."
"Performance characteristics are derived for an FSK data transmission scheme in which M frequencies out of N are used simultaneously. Noncoherent matched filters are applied at the N frequencies, and the filter outputs are compared as in a permutation modulation system. It is shown that many permutation alphabets provide energy per bit advantage over binary FSK, although the best results are obtained with one-out-of-N alphabets. Considering bits per unit bandwidth, many permutation alphabets perform as well as or better than binary; however, one-out-of-N alphabets carry less information per unit bandwidth when N > 4."
"A new method of coding images for digital transmission, called Fourier coding, has been developed. By this technique, a two-dimensional Fourier transform of an original image is performed by a digital computer using a highly efficient version of the fast Fourier transform algorithm. The Fourier transform of the image, or some processed rendition of it, is transmitted, and a second two-dimensional Fourier transform is taken at the receiver to obtain the original image. The double Fourier transform of an image does not significantly degrade the quality of the image. Most of the “information” in the spatial-frequency domain lies along the coordinate axes and near the origin at the low spatial frequencies. This property of Fourier domain samples can be exploited to achieve a bandwidth reduction for televised images."
"It is often desirable to transmit graphic information such as a typewritten page or a detailed photograph over band-limited transmission media and to display it at the receiving end on a real-time basis. Since a narrow bandwidth is desirable for this, the video information must be transmitted at a low frame rate. At the receiving station a cathode-ray tube may be used to display the slow-scan information. To overcome flicker resulting from the low frame rate and/or inefficient long persistent phosphors a scan-conversion and frame-repeating technique is described in this paper. At the receiver the transmitted information displayed on a slow-scan cathode-ray tube is optically transferred through a lens to the target of a storage vidicon working at fast-scan rates. A long decay characteristic of stored charge in the photoconductor of the target makes it possible to regenerate the same frame of the video signal many times at the fast-scan rates without conspicuous fading during the slow-scan frame time. The regenerated information is displayed on a high-resolution wideband monitor."
"To record data originating at rather high input rates (a billion counts/sec) — rates currently outside the range of feasibility for magnetic-recording media such as high-speed tapes, discs, drums or core memories — fast-framing cameras offer a feasible alternative at low cost. Data are recorded and directed into integrated circuit scalers associated with each of 334 channels. The twelve data lines of each scaler are read out simultaneously in a group of 56 scalers into a panel of neon lamps; the lamps fire if a “one” bit is present and remain extinguished for a “zero” bit. The resulting pattern of lights reflects the stored data. With the aid of synchronizing pulses, the panel is gated to display one of six groups at the moment the shutter is open. An existing film-scanning station has been adapted to translate the developed dot images from 16mm film into computer-compatible magnetic tape."
"The application of magnetic image memorizers has created new possibilities for the presentation of roentgenological images. The TV signals from various x-ray images of the same object, e.g., different phases of its movement, are, by suitable subtraction and/or addition, combined into one picture or a sequence of combined pictures. The information required for establishing the diagnosis can be more easily and clearly recognized than on the original roentgenograms. This is particularly the case when the combined image is displayed on a color television monitor. It is then possible to present the different phases of movements of the object in different colors: time differences become color differences. This has been found to be of particular interest in the study of cerebral blood-flow patterns."
"Various methods have been used during the past 14 years in the preparation of sound for release in theaters equipped for stereophonic reproduction; these included the practices involving three microphones and use of time-delay networks from monaural sound, as well as six-track sound. The projection of picture with five-track sound, accompanied by recorded narration, illustrates present-day techniques used in the preparation of six-track sound for 70mm theater releases."
"To improve 35mm motion-picture projection, scores of experimental tests have been directed toward a film- and eye-limited system rather than an equipment-limited system. To check the final screen results, a new resolution test film was developed, along with a photographic recording technique to record the details of the projected picture. The projection results of typical theaters are compared with the results of the Ultra-vision system of Wil-Kin, Inc. Eye resolution, film resolution and film pulldown mechanical limits are analyzed; a proposal for a new SMPTE test film is made."
"Using a theater in which only lenses and arc-lamp mirrors are varied, comparisons of projected image have been made. A high-resolution test film is used in interpreting a visual result in the front, center and rear row of the theater. Various lenses of the same focal length, but of 4-element and 6-element types, have been compared for resolution quality. Also compared are results with silvered and infrared rejecting mirrors to determine the effect on picture quality while using each of the lenses initially tested. The results have been plotted."
"Since the introduction of slow-motion/stop-action video recorders for use in sports events, several different systems have been conceived to replay a picture instantly at normal speed, different rates of slow motion/stop-action, and reverse. All these systems used multiple discs or combinations of recorders. The recorder/reproducer described here uses just one disc which is addressed by two record/playback heads. One head records and plays back on the top of the disc, and the second records and plays back on the bottom. Starting at the disc's inside edge, field one is recorded on top of the disc; and field two is recorded directly below it on the bottom. The recording process continues across the disc, recording every other track to provide space for interleaving data on the return travel. To allow the operator to return quickly to points of interest for replay, a unique system of 30 tally lamps precisely indicates where the desired data is located on the disc."
"The problems involved in installing transmitting antennae on tall structures are generally known by those engaged in this rather specialized field. However, when the mounting structure is the tallest building in the world, and of considerable cross-section, the problems become less apparent. This paper deals with both the problems and solutions experienced by a specific station in this particular area of interest."
"A report was first presented at the Society's Technical Conference in New York on April 19, 1967, by J. T. Wilner (who read the paper), The Hearst Corp., 3800 Hooper Ave., Baltimore, Md. 21211; and Robert M. Morris, then at the American Broadcasting Co., 1330 Sixth Ave., New York, N.Y. 10019. Mr. Morris is now retired and resides at 60 Sunset Lake Rd., Rt. 1, Box 67, Sparta, N.J. 07871. This brief historical review is published to acquaint readers with the results of the NAB Loudness Subcommittee's efforts, with the cooperation of George W. Bartlett, Vice-president for Engineering, National Assn. of Broadcasters, 1812 K St., N.W., Washington, D.C. 20006."
"There are Today two important technical limitations to the development of TV related to the broadcasting of TV signals to home viewers. The radiated waves used in TV broadcasts have essentially line-of-sight propagation; hence, many people living in canyons, near hills and mountains, and over the geographic horizon do not receive usable TV signals. Furthermore, electromagnetic waves are reflected when they impinge upon objects comparable in size to the wavelength of the propagated energy. Since the longest of the broadcast TV signal wavelengths is approximately 20 feet, it is evident that, in numerous urban areas, broadcast TV signals encounter many manmade structures which reflect and refrac them."
"The choice and use of test signals for in-service testing of video transmission facilities during the vertical interval (VITS) are based on several considerations. The sine-squared pulse, having a half-amplitude duration of 1/8 μs, often called a T pulse, is not a good choice for the quality rating of a television channel. Computed results from transmission response of actual facilities and echo-rating theory show that this signal may fail to detect poor channels and will on occasion indicate that a good channel is bad. The T pulse correlates poorly with the results of subjective tests. Alternative signals analyzed as to their spectrum and application include the 2T pulse, a step function having a controlled rise time and the 20T modulated pulse for evaluating the color-carrying capabilities of a channel. On the basis of results of measurements made on operating transmission systems the next steps are recommended in the development of an optimum set of vertical interval test signals."
"The accurate measurement of impedance errors which cause television signal degradation is important in distribution systems of broadcast studios and network facilities. Methods of measurement which use impedance bridges or other devices are generally time consuming and no one device will yield complete data over the whole video-frequency spectrum. An alternative technique which has become popular in other countries is to measure impedance error in terms of return loss. With respect to transmission lines, return-loss is defined as the ratio of the incident signal to the reflected signal expressed in decibels. The return-loss concept may also be extended to measure impedance errors of two terminal devices. A new version of a return-loss bridge uses a high-gain, wide-band oscilloscope differential preamplifier as the error detector. The characteristics of this bridge are: (a) passive components, (b) extremely simple construction and (c) great sensitivity and bandwidth. With this bridge a single measurement can cover the complete video spectrum. Return-loss errors of 60 dB can be measured over the bandwidth of 0 to 8 Mhz."
"A three-vidicon live-color TV camera has been designed primarily for closed-circuit use, but it can be adapted for broadcasting. Its demagnifying relay system simplifies optical problems. The 35mm single-lens-reflex format was chosen for the objective lens to maximize lens availability and minimize cost. Plate beamsplitters employing dichroic coatings were computer designed to minimize hue shift and polarization and angle difference. The camera is completely self-contained and includes sync generator and encoder, requiring only 117-V ac power and a single coaxial output connection. Optical and mechanical alignment is factory set with precise jigs; the critical optical elements are sealed in a single removable subassembly. The stable sweep circuits require an absolute minimum of adjustment for achieving and maintaining registration. Other design features are: video circuits to provide stability of gain and dc level; a crystal-controlled syncgenerator; the camera adaptable to systems of any complexity; and remote control of all critical operating parameters. Sensitivity enables usable color pictures to be obtained with as little as 75-fc illumination."
"Laboratory processing machines can add clicks and other noise to magnetic-striped film. Over a six-month period, a click at 20-frame intervals was heard on 16mm magnetic-striped film; this became serious when the intensity of the clicks increased. The source was finally found in an area of 15 mils on a roller in a film processing machine. Below the surface of a polypropylene roller, a microscopic particle of magnetized ferrous metal was detected by x-ray; by degaussing and remagnetizing the particle it was identified as magnetic. Once the cause of a click is known, a simple procedure can be used for routine detection of magnetic inteference."
"The earliest color reproductions were made by an additive color process using the exposure and projection of tricolor film. This came to be replaced by the now current subtractive method by which copies are produced on printers whose light is corrected by the insertion of colored filters. Various improvements have been proposed in the past; now a new lamphouse has been designed, based on the principle of division and reconstitution of the trichrome light beams emanating from a single light source. Better quality and more faithful color reproduction may be obtained with a light source which uses red, green and blue fluxes. The originality of the AD lamphouse lies in the conception of its optical system and in the use of a stop band with three holes, so that each color light beam can be modulated scene by scene. The matte band is of the same material normally used and is 70mm wide. Because the system has been designed for a 5-perforation advance, the classic electromechanical advance systems are still valid."
"Silver is precipitated as silver sulfide when a thiosulfate fixing bath is treated with thioacetamide. The silver is titrated, in effect, by adding graduated amounts of thioacetamide to aliquots of the fixing solution and then determining if all the silver has been precipitated. Each aliquot is filtered and the filtrate is allowed to run into more thioacetamide solution. Formation of more silver sulfide precipitate indicates that the end point has not been reached. Interference with the method by ferrous ions is eliminated by complexing the ferrous ions with ferricyanide."
"The Photographs in this article show some of the many different film widths used since the invention of motion pictures. Also illustrated is the great variety of shapes of sprocket holes, frame areas and attempts at 3-D which inventors have deemed feasible and necessary during the past seventy-odd years. It has been difficult to ascertain why there was such a lack of standardization. Was it the result of accident, necessity or money? Or was it simply the outcome of man's attempt to circumvent another's patents?"
"Edit. Note: The USASI Standard PH1.28 for archival film on cellulose base has recently been revised by the USASI Sectional Committee PH1. The USASI represented by P. Z. Adelstein, USASI Chairman of Subcommittee of PH1-3, believes the proposed standard is of interest to SMPTE members and it is published herewith. This standard will also be published in the SPSE News and in the Journal of the National Microfilm Association."
"Two Articles Setting Forth instructions for authors recently appeared in the Proceedings IEE and in Audio-Visual COMMUNICATIONS. Both contain suggestions useful to an author preparing a paper either for publication or as an address. With the view that these suggestions may prove helpful to our authors, extracts are here presented.*"
"In This Small world we live in—small in terms of the time required for travel and communication — direct communication among scientists and engineers of all nations is of the utmost importance."
"The extensive paper by O. H. Schade, Sr., (RCA Review, vol. 28, pp. 460–535, September 1967) is summarized. The resolving power of an imaging system is described in terms of a series of “resolving power functions”; these relate the resolution to the exposure as a critical variable. The successive functions vary as a number of other significant parameters are changed. The treatment permits prediction of resolving power performance of TV camera and other imaging systems under a variety of operating conditions. Experimental confirmation of the analysis is mentioned."
"Certain papers published by the British Post Office on the subjective impairment of television pictures, which do not seem to have attracted the attention they deserve, make it possible to derive an overall subjective rating factor for a picture having a number of individual impairments from which in turn can be derived the statistical spread of opinion over the population corresponding to the total impairment. In instances where one distortion can be varied at the expense of one or more others a simple criterion is available for the optimum condition. Although the information relates to 625-line NTSC pictures, the principle can be applied to 525-line pictures."
"The author claims that the FCC-approved television system is equal in quality to 35mm film in many ways and superior to it in many others. The article is in three parts: a history of the relationship of the television system to motion-picture film, a discussion as to how the two mediums can be compared on equal terms, and finally, an exposition of how the two mediums compare, with some remarks concerning the future of motion-picture production."
"The color calibrator permits an observer to compare the color of the peak-white video level on a TV monitor with the standard white provided by filtered light from a lamp in the calibrator. The standard white chromaticity is equal to that from CIE Illuminant D6500. The design, construction, calibration and application of the instrument are discussed. Control of the chromaticity of the peak white from various studios and stations using such an instrument should improve the quality of color television."
"Magnetic disc memories that store information at video bandwidths require auxiliary devices to record and play back single or multiple frames of video data. By choice of modulation technique new information may be added at slow or rapid rates to a video frame which is continually repeated at normal TV scan rates for the benefit of an observer. As an example, a video x-y plotter is described. Disc scan conversion has freedom from image fading, relatively multiframe capacity and ability to erase and record data selectively and rapidly. Minimum registration errors and good shading characteristics allow special forms of visual data manipulation. Integration characteristics differ from those of the scan-conversion tube. There are various modulation methods as well as various applications in monochrome and color. Expedients for achieving high resolution are outlined and an economical slow-scan TV system for general communications use is described."
"A new cue system for motion-picture printers is based upon the incoherent diffraction of infrared radiation. It is completely interchangeable with and compatible with present RF and notch cue systems. Diffraction cues are placed on the film. The detector is on the printing machine. The punched paper tapes used to encode the printer light changes remain unmodified. A cue consists of inscribed, finely spaced parallel lines located in an area bounded by the edge of the film, the picture frame and the adjacent sprocket holes. A pattern of inscribed lines causes a “blaze” or sharp line of radiation to be incoherently diffracted in a direction orthogonal to the lines. The appropriately placed detector senses only the diffracted radiation when a cue passes into the optics. With solid-state electronics, signals are amplified, time delays injected (if desired) and the printer light changes triggered. The cues are inscribed on the film in 1 s by one battery-powered cue applicator."
"Beginning with a discussion of historical light sources (lime lights, arc lamps with condensers and mirrors; low- and high-intensity carbon-arc lamps), the development of gas discharge lamps, which came out after 1930, were suitable only for black-and-white film projection. The xenon lamp, which appeared on the market in 1954, could project both color and black-and-white films and therefore replace the open burning carbon light arc successfully. Thousands of theaters are now equipped with xenon lamps. The electrical capacity of xenon bulbs, which was only 900 W in 1954, has been increased to 6,500 W."
"Xenon lamps have applications in theater, commercial and amateur projection; rear projection of slides and film; the projection of television images (Eidophor); studio lighting; and lighting of space vehicle launches. Compared to the light from other types of discharge lamps, that of xenon lamps most closely resembles natural daylight. It has the highest color rendering index. The advantages of xenon lamps over other types of lamps include constant spectral distribution; economical long-run operation with minimum maintenance; and arc stability (see Tümmel, pp. 630–632). Color temperatures of xenon lamps range from 6000 to 6400 K, depending on the type of lamp."
"Trapezoidal distortion results when the projector lens axis and the screen axis do not coincide. Their difference is axial displacement which can be measured in degrees of arc or as the linear difference between the optimum and actual projector positions. The increased use of rear-screen systems with a shortened throw and two or more projectors makes the determination of the axial displacement limit a prime consideration in the system design. Using throw, screen width and axial displacement as independent variables, equations have been developed to permit specification of the trapezoidal distortion as a percentage of the projected image dimension. Based upon visual acuity criteria, it is recommended that 2% would be a reasonable maximum limit."
"The earliest method of broadcasting color television programs from magnetic tape attempted to preserve the time-base stability of the chrominance information with respect to a stable color subcarrier by treating the off-tape chroma information separately from the luminance. This method has commonly been known as nonphased color because it characteristically fails to preserve the relationship between subcarrier and sync. The relevant FCC specifications and a typical non-phased color system are described; an analysis of the output components shows the subcarrier to undergo full correction while the quadrature modulation is left uncorrected. A number of subjectively disturbing effects are identified, including loss of dot cancellation, loss of luminance resolution and impairment of hue quality."
"We might arbitrarily decide that it would be adequate in much of the work in high-speed photography if we had a picture that resolved 200 line pairs across the frame each way. We could then choose the smallest lens aperture and/or the smallest format that would just allow such resolution. Shutters could then be designed which would operate in much shorter times than would be possible with large cameras. Similarly, it would be much easier to design equipment that would move the image or the film by one frame width in a given time; and thus some cameras that take sequences of pictures could be made to operate at higher rates than for conventional sized pictures. There are in fact a whole variety of problems in camera design that can be more easily tackled if one can keep down the size of the lens and/or the image (or the image element size in image-dissection cameras). This paper discusses the application of these ideas to a number of kinds of camera."
"Photopolymerization is a photochemically-initiated combination of many small monomer molecules which form long polymer chains by means of a chain reaction. The general aspects of these reactions include light-induced formation of reactive-free radicals, initiation of polymerization by these radicals, chain propagation and termination. Inhibition, chain transfer and crosslinking reactions are reviewed. Improvement of the photographic speed, a necessity for many photographic applications, can be secured in two ways: by increasing the amount of polymer formed per incident photon and by enhancing the visibility of the polymer which is obtained. The two essential components of a photopolymer system are the monomers and the photocatalyst system which initiates polymerization in response to the absorption of light. These reactants are combined in a solvent, gel or other suitable medium with other components that may be necessary for specific applications of the system. The effects of each component, plus the effects of inhibitors on the efficiency of polymer formation, are discussed. Once the photopolymer image is formed, it must be prepared for viewing or projection; this consists of rendering the unexposed areas of the composition insensitive to light and possibly augmenting the contrast between the exposed and unexposed areas. General photographic use seems to be theoretically possible, although considerable further development is required."
"The natural colloid, gelatin, has been used as the principal support medium for silver halides coated onto various film and paper bases for almost a hundred years. Most users of photographic materials think of gelatin as a physical support for the sensitive materials; hence it would seem simple to replace it with a purer synthetic material of more predictable properties. However, gelatin has a dozen or more specific functions, some of which are still incompletely understood. Although photographic gelatin is a composite of many varying entities, it is made with reasonable uniformity and purity; the chemical industry finds it hard to produce a synthetic colloid which is so reproducible and so low in photographically active impurities. The few substitutes which have reached the market in the form of photographic sensitized materials have limited application, and in most cases, have been withdrawn from production due to unexpected deficiencies. Several international conferences have been held in recent years to discuss the possible improvements in photographic gelatin, and to try to standardize methods of testing."
"Color television has created a new requirement for the camera pickup tube, that of matchability. The various tube operating parameters are discussed, as well as their individual contributions to the making of acceptable, as distinct from correct, color pictures. Comparison of several tube types is made and some opinions as to their meeting the exacting requirements are expressed."
"Newly developed tungsten-halogen lamp types are interchangeable with standard incandescent lamps in standard theatrical luminaires. They not only produce the desired performance characteristics, but even improve upon some. Data are presented on the effectiveness of these tungsten-halogen equivalents for a wide range of theatrical and studio lamps. Such pertinent factors as photometric performance, utility and economics are discussed."
"A method is presented that would allow two- or three-channel stereophonic sound with 16 mm films without loss of image area for the picture. Two basic manners of recording and reproducing stereophonic soundtracks are discussed. Problems concerned with editing film breaks are presented, and their solutions are offered."
"This is the tenth in a series reporting on selected financial and statistical developments of the nontheatrical motion-picture and audio-visual fields in the United States. It brings up to date (as of January 1, 1968) this information, and accordingly supersedes “Market Review: Nontheatrical Film and Audio-Visual — 1966,” published in the December 1967 Journal (pp. 1264–1278). This report has a major change in format which is explained fully in the Appendix."
"Developments of high-speed photography in the Netherlands are surveyed with reference to organization of the workers active in this field and work done in the last few years. Particular attention is given to the investigations carried out by the High-speed Photography Section of the Central Technical Institute TNO. Diapositives and a film show the results of research on brittle fracture, explosive forming, medical applications (cardiology), combustion research, traffic safety research and other applications. Special attention is paid to choosing the right combination of optical system and high-speed camera, depending on the problem under study."
"The development of the Locam series of intermittent pin-registered cameras has included a patented crank used in the intermittent mechanism which has proven superior to geared designs, especially during high-speed operation, for eliminating backlash and induced vibration. Module construction provides for interchange- ability of major components, greater reliability and easier maintenance. The shutter is conventional but operates at a half-revolution per frame, making possible an equivalent opening of 180°, which was not before available in cameras of this type. A solid-state electronic speed control offers infinitely variable frame-rate selection over the entire range and regulates film speed to within 1% at 400 frames s. Film shot at this speed was projected to show picture quality and extreme steadiness."
"The specific capacity of 125 cu ft/spectator recommended for 35mm film theaters seating up to 900 persons has to be increased by almost 300% for 70mm film theaters that have larger screens and aspect ratios of projected picture. The audience- participation-inviting effects of Cinerama, Todd-AO, Ultrapanavision, etc., require not only outsize screens, but utilization of central seating areas, to avoid optical distortion as well as delayed sound reflections. Extreme lateral seating in an auditorium makes correct sound-source localization difficult (getting the sound source to come from directly behind the picture image), which has led to the adoption of continental seating arrangements in new theaters: the space along the sidewalls is used for aisles. Other improvements are discussed, such as a 5-in rise per seat row spaced 40 in. back-to-back, and the application of sound absorbent treatment on the lower portions of the sidewalls to prevent delayed reflections."
"To accommodate complex broadcasts, six control-room operating positions may be routed as required to 48 studio interphone positions. Stage announce, paging, RF cue communication and external private line circuits are controlled through the system. The video and audio operators may selectively isolate output channels with which they are concerned to simplify equipment setup. The technical director retains supervisory control over these and other switching functions. Control-room positions may independently monitor any channel for informational purposes. Integral visual and aural test devices allow rapid adjustment and check-out of the system. Levels to the stage interphone positions may be varied automatically in accordance with prevailing ambient sound levels. A combination of modular tray and hinged panel construction obtains good accessibility with compact design. General design principles and approaches are adaptable to any size of system."
"When using a TV system it is desirable to be able to measure selfluminous and non-selfluminous objects, so that the attribute of their appearance known as color can be expressed numerically. Being able to determine the spectral reflectance curve of a rock or other substance on another planet would be very helpful in identifying the material. Surveyor spacecraft, which soft-landed on the lunar surface from 1966 through 1968, have slow-scan 600-line TV systems utilizing a mirror, variable focal-length lens, vidicon tube and a rotating color wheel which holds three primary color filters. The color filters were designed to rotate individually into the optical path of the camera, which necessitated three identical photos being taken, one photo using each of the three color filters. The TV-camera electronics relative-spectral response had to be found before the desired spectral transmittance of the three color filters could be selected. Moreover, the green response had to match the corresponding CIE standard tristimulus value curve because the green response is the basis for defining the photometric unit of luminous flux. Typical color results are discussed."
"A simplified NTSC-compatible encoder produces a signal which is subjectively equivalent to that of a full broadcast encoder but is simplified to the point of requiring only one 6- by 8-in. printed circuit card. The red, green and blue (R, G, B) signals are matrixed into the R–Y and B–Y chrominance signals. The bandwidths of both signal paths are identical, thereby eliminating the need for an additional video-delay line. Moreover, the burst-flag signal is added negatively to the B–Y signal before band limiting; therefore, no special delay is needed for the burst flag. The R–Y and B Y signals are modulated in balanced fashion with the color subcarrier 90° out of phase. The subcarrier is generated internally by a crystal oscillator. An external subcarrier from a crystal-controlled source can also be used. To create the Y signal, the R, G, B signals are matrixed in the normal manner after which the “combined” signal is amplified and inverted. The inverted Y signal is added directly to both the R and B signals simultaneously in correct proportions, thereby creating the R-Y and B-Y chrominance signals. A separate luminance channel has also been incorporated; this enables a separately derived luminance signal to be used directly as the Y signal. The output of the encoder is a composite color video signal completely compatible with receivers designed for the NTSC signal."
"A simplified abrasion tester has been developed to study the action of a head against the magnetic stripe on motion-picture film, and to investigate the factors affecting head life. In a study using only permalloy dummy heads, the data over the range of variables normally encountered in motion-picture work can be correlated by the equation — $$(dA/dL)=k_{f}k_{h}P^{1.1}M^{1.0}V^{-0.3}$$ — where A = loss of metal per unit width of the head, L = length of stripe run against the head, and kf and kh are abrasiveness factors characteristic of the film and head respectively. P, M and V are the pressure of the head against the stripe, the contact or chord length of the head and the film velocity respectively. Head pressure can be chosen within limits by the systems designer; it is found advantageous to work at low levels. Accordingly, the control of the stripe presentation to the head and the uniformity of that presentation is preferably controlled by means other than head pressure, such as by film-path constraints. This work is being extended into a study of other polepiece alloys and into very high-speed magnetic transfer."
"The usual engineering interpretation of luminance (photometric brightness), luminous intensity per unit projected area, is adequate for many applications. However, the basic definition involves a limit of two independent variables, area and solid angle. Luminance is luminous flux per unit projected area per unit solid angle. Using this definition it is possible to explain why meters never exactly measure luminance and to determine what functions of luminance produce the responses of luminance meters. — All meter measurements and practical applications of luminance involve some type of averaging process. Generally, this presents no problem. There are many cases, however, in which a precise definition of the average must be based on the application since two independent variables are involved. It is important to recognize when this is required. This is especially true in scientific applications and in the design and analysis of luminaires, light sources, projection systems, and other optical systems. Many different values of luminance can be used to describe a light source, and it is important to choose the appropriate definition for each use."
"Efforts to produce brighter projected pictures have in general been confined to improving projector lamps, illuminating systems and projection lenses. The role of the projection screen in the total projection system is equally important. A careful analysis of the photometric characteristics of conventional front-projection screen materials has been made and it has been found that they are generally unsatisfactory for use in ambient light, and inefficient in their utilization of image light. Calculations have been made of theoretically ideal luminance (brightness) gains possible as a function of the spread angle needed to accommodate any given audience space. The interplay of luminance gain, screen material, spread angle and ambient light rejection is discussed. — A new screen material having characteristics close to the theoretically ideal has been developed. The necessity of curving the screen with this material for the most effective utilization of image light and rejection of ambient light is explained and analyzed in depth. A practical screen has been produced using this new material, with appropriate curvature, which has proved to be approximately six times brighter than the best existing screens with excellent performance in high ambient light. It is emphasized that this increased brightness allows expanded use of small-format films, stereo projection and low-wattage projectors, and opens the way for other novel applications."
"A new color television system, which uses subjective (induced) color for the pickup, transmission and reproduction of color pictures with ordinary black-and-white TV equipment, is described. The system employs an optical device on the television camera which includes a filter-mask disc, that has three complementary filters (cyan, magenta and yellow) and an opaque sector. The disc is mounted in the optical path of a black-and-white TV camera between the lens and the pickup tube. A manual phasing control insures that the pickup tube's electronic beam scans behind the disc's webs which mechanically support the filters and opaque sectors. No electronic modification or additional equipment is necessary at the receiver. The induced color picture can be recorded in the normal manner on black-and-white video tape or film."
"Solutions for many of the pressing problems in our educational system may be provided by engineers associated with the educational technology field. There is a need for engineers who have studied the teaching-learning process or evaluation procedures. If we are to help in the design and development of a more dynamic educational system, it is imperative that we fully understand some of the basic concepts of education and the learning process. An organization is required, at the Federal level, which can guide, recommend and evaluate new applications for instructional technology. One of the prime jobs of such an agency should be to serve as a clearinghouse for the exchange of information on education and training programs, media and instructional technology, so that all industrial organizations would know about the latest developments. We should support the Carnegie Commission Report, recommending that a major research and development program be inaugurated to investigate how instructional television can be applied most effectively in the educational environment. The problem of education is so urgent that it warrants a cooperative effort by both industry and government."
"While the teacher is still by far the most important factor in today's classroom, modern technology is available to lend a helping hand. Education's new media, ranging from the simplest of traditional audio-visual materials to sophisticated electronic systems, provide resources which allow the teacher to expose the learner to a wider range of educational material. While certain advantages of technology in the classroom are obvious, we must also recognize its limitations. School plants as well as school organizations must change to accept the challenge and responsibility of the technological revolution."
"Since the late 1950's television has proved to be an invaluable tool in the treatment of psychiatric patients and the education of medical students. Techniques for the treatment of patients center around the idea of self-confrontation. In addition methods of treatment can be taught and careful evaluation of therapy sessions becomes possible. Production techniques have evolved to catch the nuances of movement in the patient as well as an overall view of the session. Placement of camera and microphone is sometimes a problem because the presence of a third party may disrupt the therapeutic process. The use of television in psychiatry is no longer experimental but has become an integral part of teaching and treatment."
"Use of the vidicon tube, helical-scan video-tape recording and solid-state circuitry has brought closed-circuit television within the budgetary reach of even small schools. New models of equipment are continually being offered; specifications and prices vary widely, with no clear set of criteria for selection. The technical characteristics, typical applications and initial operating costs of the equipment are discussed, with emphasis on cameras and recorders. Cameras using vidicon, Plumbicon and image-orthicon tubes are compared as to image quality, ease of operation and maintenance and cost. The comparative features of recorders include tape-scanning format, compatibility between machines, editing, color capability and acceptability of tapes for broadcast."
"The New York Network's planning and installation of facilities, some unique programing capabilities and system performance are reported. There is a timetable for systematic follow-up involving four major contracts, personnel procurement, training and acceptance tests. Synchronous operation of all network sync generator equipment is provided. Performance data are given for the microwave system and the control center. The system's duplex capabilities are used in a practical sense; many simultaneous operations may be carried out, and each contributes to overall flexibility and economy for participating stations. Intercommunication facilities include TWX, talk circuits and one PL circuit which doubles as a backup audio system for program audio."
"The Single-Concept Film Clip Project was organized in 1964 to develop a system for excerpting, packaging and retrieving segments of footage from 16mm films in a minimum of time. These excerpts should be packaged by the producers in self-contained cartridges as single-concept films. Sound-on-film machines can help cartridge films to a maximum potential use in education. The Basic Information Retrieval System (BIRS) is a general use, computerized storage and retrieval system using the meaningful terms in the clip summaries written by the Project's film excerpters. The Project has also investigated the need for standards for cartridge projectors, particularly for the various 8mm formats now available."
"The requirements of specific teaching-learning situations must take into account the capabilities of existing machines. The most purchased machine in education today is the overhead projector, which can be used in many settings. One of its most important characteristics, screen brightness, may be described variously in terms of lamp watts, lamp type, condensing system, photo white, lumens or percentage brighter. A set of overhead projector characteristics that are important to educators for selecting machines for specific educational settings is now being prepared, taking into account the varied needs of education and the characteristics of the machines. Information needed for each machine is identification, safety considerations, electrical, optical, sound and temperature characteristics, convenience, optional accessories, size and portability."
"The new motion-picture film format has special merit for the educational community. It is easily adaptable, using a 17½mm film width with properties similar to those of super 8mm film. Four separate soundtracks are on the nonperforated edge of the film. The film is projected at 24 frames/s, resulting in a film soundtrack speed of 8 in./s. The system is self-rewinding, and optical soundtracks are possible at little extra expense per copy. In volume production, a color, sound print would cost only about 25% the price of a 16mm color, sound equivalent."
"A new high-speed, rapid-processing black-and-white reversal film, rated at 500 Daylight/400 Tungsten for normal reversal processing, has grain comparable to earlier high-speed reversal films and offers improved sharpness and excellent protection against flare and halation. Higher speeds can be readily obtained by increasing the first development time. Higher speeds are accompanied by some reduction in maximum density and slightly increased grain. Halation protection is provided by a special silver underlayer which is discharged during the reversal process, requiring no change from the normal reversal processing schedule. This new film is not suitable for use as a negative."
"Professional motion pictures require 35mm color duplicate negatives from camera color negative originals and often require 16mm reduction color duplicate negatives as well. Historically, these duplicates have been produced by a two-stage (positive-negative) reproduction cycle with resulting losses in color and sharpness and increased graininess. Frequently four or six printing stages are required. Significant quality and cost advantages may be obtained by preparation of a color duplicate negative in one stage using a new reversal-processed color duplicating film, Eastman Color Reversal Intermediate Film, Types 5249 and 7249. The new film contains color masking layers which, when processed in the CRI-1 process, give the required 1.0 printing contrasts. Preparation of the color duplicate negative requires use of an optical printer to preserve orientation as well as to introduce special effects or obtain the required reduction."
"The techniques for evaluating system effectiveness of the Saturn V Launch Vehicle System during the prelaunch phase of operations are reviewed and the results achieved are summarized. The elements by which system effectiveness can be measured are capability, reliability and availability. Availability is the probability that a system will be ready to perform its mission during a certain period of time. The objective of the studies described is to understand the behavior of the system during the prelaunch phase. This understanding will allow: prediction of the probability of successful launch, identification of the major contributors to non-success, evaluation of potential fixes, and formulation of specific recommendations for system improvements. The key element of the techniques employed in these studies is a model that utilizes a digital computer to simulate the prelaunch processing of the Saturn V Launch Vehicle."
"On an average launch of the Gemini vehicle, approximately 50 photographic instruments collect the engineering data. The instruments which expose over 25,000 ft of film, 20,000 ft being exposed in less than 4 min, are three emergency and five surveillance cameras, 18 metric instruments, 20 engineering sequential cameras and five tracking telescopes. A motion-picture film of the actual test has been made to explain the function, requirements and data acquired."
"Photographic support provided by Technicolor Inc. in association with the Saturn/Apollo moon project includes documentation, engineering instrumentation, analysis and news releases. All phases of the lunar operation are covered using a number of motion-picture cameras and still cameras. Photographic facilities at Cape Kennedy have grown to keep pace with the rocket research program using special camera-control units on all launching sites. Problems peculiar to a growing operation demand a variety of equipment and a flexible staff. Special explosion-proof boxes are used to house cameras that photograph details of liquid oxygen fumes and structural behavior of the rocket at lift-off. Cameras operated by remote control from a central unit allow varying start and stop times required by specific missile functions. Documentation photos cover components at various stages of the rocket build-up and launch. The Technicolor laboratory at the Space Center is well equipped for rapid processing of motion-picture and still films. A film library and special production staff are included in the program of operations."
"The main principles of a new system of varioscopic cinematography developed by the specialists of NIKFI and motion-picture studios are presented. This system is the realization of an idea proposed by the well-known film director S. M. Eisenstein in the English journal Close up, March 1931. In the process of projection of varioscopic film the aspect ratio of the image can be changed from approximately 1:2 through 1:1 to 2:1. The new system is based on the use of 70mm film with 10 perforations/frame or 35mm film with full-frame height, or it can be based on the use of optics with a variable squeezing factor within the range of 0.5 to 2."
"The color-television signal and color receivers should be balanced for the same value of reference white to achieve colorimetric fidelity and to minimize interference. The signal is balanced for white at 6800 K but, to achieve maximum brightness, 12,000,000 receivers in the United States are balanced near 9300 K. New phosphors now make it possible to achieve near-maximum brightness at 6800 K. The author discusses the cause and consequences of the difference and describes the steps to be taken if, because of the large number of receivers in homes, it should be decided that the signal should be changed."
"The legibility of symbols in a television display may be represented by plotting legibility (accuracy-level) contours against logarithmic coordinate scales of vertical and horizontal resolution. Such graphs are very useful in analyzing the relation of legibility to the symbol size and the television system parameters. All legibility data necessary for the analysis were obtained with a 525-line closed-circuit TV system, by an experimental procedure described in the Appendix. The graphical method should also be effective for comparing the effects of other independent display parameters which are suggested."
"An electrooptical scanning system's resolution capability can be described by a modulation transfer function similar to the aperture admittance of Mertz and Gray. Image formation, image dissection and facsimile synthesis can be treated as operations in which each subsystem's input is averaged over a finite interval. The modulation transfer function thus derived places in perspective the effects that the optics, image dissector, video electronics and display have on the quality of the final image facsimile. As an illustrative supplement, the averaging-aperture analogy can be the basis for a simple computer program to produce simulated image-facsimile intensity cross sections from inputs simulating resolution-target stripes and other test patterns."
"Of the several ways to improve projected image quality, the efficient use of light is most often overlooked. Factors such as screen gain, screen shape, matching of lens to lamp, correct alignment and correct selection of the lamp can have considerable effect on both picture quality and operation costs. The adoption of xenon lamps, coupled with correct screen and projector design, can cut operation costs while bringing about increased depth of focus and better overall picture quality."
"Newly developed equipment and methods for recording and reproducing picture-synchronous sound in film and TV studios have led to partial automation of studio work. Remote control is provided for all studio units. An example is Multicord, a magnetic film recorder-reproducer which makes possible fast rewinding in both directions without unthreading. Another useful device is Rotosyn, a system that synchronizes the speed of film transport mechanisms. In a new version, with a pulse generator, Rotosyn can be used with both double-system recordings and video-tape recording. Use of new systems and equipments affects final sound mixing in various ways. With yet another method, all points on the film at which a sound event should start or finish are marked by magnetic pulses on a programed magnetic film running on a special editing table beside the (picture) film. All films are then wound back, and mixing is done at a normal film speed."
"A system for home-use color video-tape recording, called the pilot NTSC system, has been developed. The recorder has been designed to avoid difficulties with frequency bandwidth, jitter, bulkiness and high cost of equipment. A method has been developed to fit the color signal of NTSC within the effective VTR bandwidth, recording it after frequency modulation and inverting it on the reproduction side to 3.58 MHz. A pilot signal has been used as a color standard to avoid jitter. Experimental results of the VTR are described."
"The Needs of the closed circuit television industry are in many cases different than those of the broadcast industry. The Electronic Industries Association (EIA) Standard RS-170 has long been recognized for broadcast. It describes a standard for only one scan rate and for a given bandwidth. It describes a complex sync waveform. All of these functions are suitable for many closed circuit television usages but a different specification would be necessary to provide for more than one scan rate, for broader bandwidths and most importantly a simpler sync waveform. Both the users and the manufacturers have been plagued by the lack of closed circuit television standards and have been forced to produce their own standards either by modifying RS-170 or actually generating a completely new waveform. As a result, true compatibility of equipment did not exist throughout the industry and the need of standardization was apparent."
"The following is an abridgment of the proceedings of the Society's Hollywood Section Meeting on January 26, 1968. In the absence of Ted Fogelman, Section Chairman, Howard Stucker, Co-Program Chairman announced the agenda; then an outline of the Society's standardization program was given by Alex Alden, SMPTE Staff Engineer. F. M. Remley, Jr., Chairman of the Society's Video-Tape Recording Committee, summarized the Committee's work and plans. A panel of experts from the Hollywood Section contributed various comments before the meeting was opened to questions and discussion from the audience."
"Recent improvements in TV terminal equipment design and stability have enabled a much improved performance to be obtained. The increased accuracy of performance measurements required has shown some deficiencies in present measurement techniques. Improved methods are suggested, together with comments on system design leading to better initial performance with faster and easier maintenance."
"The performance requirements and the specifications to meet them are considered for each equipment and for the entire system from the studio, then the studio-transmitter link to the transmitter. These specifications applied to typical equipments have made a high level of quality and reliability of broadcasting at the Tokyo Broadcast Station and at other stations in Japan."
"The color fidelity of a color television signal source may be substantially improved if a linear matrix is included in the signal chain. This improvement is greatest when the optical color analysis characteristics of the source are chosen together with the matrix coefficients. This paper describes computations made to determine the optimum matrix for use with a given set of color analysis characteristics. The method is then extended to enable the analysis characteristics and the matrix to be optimized together. The resulting characteristics are found to give an improvement not only in color fidelity but also in noise performance, when compared with the characteristic giving best color fidelity when a matrix is not permitted."
"A multiple-spark-gap camera, for use in dynamic photoelasticity, closely meets the requirements of the optimum system. The camera operates at framing rates between 50,000 and 500,000 frames/s. It is capable of resolving a dynamic pattern with a fringe gradient of 20 fringes/in., traveling at a velocity of 75,000 in./s. Other design details are given and typical results are illustrated by considering the propagation of several types of stress waves in a half-plane dynamically loaded by a point charge on the boundary."
"A squeegee developed to controllably remove liquid from a strand of film passing through it basically consists of a pair of plush-covered rollers that rotate at high speed counter to the direction of the film's motion. Roller contact on the film is very light. The squeegee has been used in a film lubricator. After film passes through the lubricant in a dip-tank, the squeegee dries, cleans and polishes the film. The squeegee has also been used to remove surface water before film drying and before soundtrack application. Compared to the Venturi squeegee, the rotary buffer uses little power, is quiet, is not limited in width and is easier to adjust and maintain. Compared to the wringer-slinger squeegee, the rotary-buffer requires separate power, does not absorb power from the film strand, is not limited in width and is easier to adjust. The rotary-buffer, however, is less compact than either."
"Tungsten-halogen lamps for TV and film applications have been rapidly developed with design requirements of portability, compact size and efficient performance. Families of these lamps provide interchangeability in wattage and color temperature. First came the group of double-ended lamps; later, single-ended lamp designs were developed. Because the lamp filaments are very compact and the bulb envelopes are small, optical system design is facilitated. The usefulness of these lamps has been shown by their providing increased light output and/or increased life, including their use in projection systems."
"An important part of the complete television system is the viewer. His conscious response is the ultimate output of the total system. A summary is made of some of what is currently known of the way in which his responses are formed. This knowledge of the process of color perception is related to the characteristics of color television images."
"The development of intercontinental satellite communication has made possible the live exchange of television programs between America and Europe, resulting in the need to convert the color signal from the American 525-line, 60-field standard to the European 625-line, 50-field standard or vice versa. Until recently, there was available only the image-transfer method of conversion which is acceptable for only monochrome conversion. Color standards converters under development take advantage of solid-state techniques to obtain reliable operation and minimal degradation of picture quality. To carry out standards conversion, there are two necessary processes: lines of the input signal must be delayed so that the information carried by them is aligned with the correct synchronizing pulses of the output standard, which is now done by ultrasonic fused-quartz delay; also, lines of the signal must be interpolated in the vertical direction to avoid serration of sloping edges on still pictures, and in the time direction to avoid judder on moving pictures. A simple converter and an improved converter are discussed."
"Flying-spot scanner system limitations are examined and a novel technique for overcoming them presented. A much-improved signal-to-noise ratio can be obtained by using a scintillator-coated film which, when scanned directly by the electron beam, emits light in direct contact with the photographic image. Both granularity noise and afterglow is sharply attenuated which makes possible bandwidths in excess of 50 MHz. A system incorporating this technique is described. Present system characteristics include a 20-MHz bandwidth while scanning a 5-in. photographic aerial film at a resolution of 100-line pairs/mm along the scannnng line. A description of the electron optical design and an automatic differentially pumped vacuum system is also presented."
"A completely new approach to film transport involves continuous feeding of film into a series of loops which are accommodated in gaps formed in a continuously moving rotor carrying them through the system. There are no reciprocating, oscillating or intermittently moving parts. The three members involved, the rotor and two feed sprockets, revolve at the same constant speed. No intermittent motion is imparted to the film although this is stationary and fully registered on fixed pins at the aperture during exposure. Considerable design flexibility is available and frame transition (equivalent pulldown period) may be varied and reduced to a substantially lower value than usual. A 35mm version has been run at above 300 frames/s; this may be improved upon. The geometry of the mechanism permits the simultaneous registration of parts of two successive frames in the aperture; this is useful in television film recording because it obviates fast film-frame transition."
"The sophistication of exposure controls in cameras has demanded more thorough analysis of the predetermination of exposure. The film exposure level maintained by an automatic control in a camera depends primarily on the film speed but several other variables can manifest substantial influence. The effects of field-luminance distribution and spectral sensitivity, as well as the sensitometric, optical and photometric relations are expressed analytically and the equations for camera exposure are derived. The resulting constant relates the ASA standard film speed to the preferred exposure for an area in an average scene having the average luminance indicated by the meter. This constant, when combined with nine variables which are a function of camera design, meter design and scene structure, provides an equation that is simplified by substituting empirical values for all but three parameters. The exposure constant is expressed as a function of the lens transmission, spectral characteristics of the detector and the discrimination of the field luminance measurement."
"A system for wet-gate printing with a Bell & Howell Model J Printer has been designed to render scratches, digs and abrasion marks nonprintable, whether the defects occur on the base or emulsion of the negative. Both sides of the negative and the emulsion side of the raw stock are coated, and special modifications of the film paths of the two films are made in order to produce optimum contact. Very accurate control of the quantity of liquid applied to each film surface was found to be essential; this was achieved by means of a carburetor acting as a pressure regulator, and a wick used to control flow."
"Gevacolor Positive Type 9.54 film is a new color print film, designed primarily to provide improved definition. Dye stability has also been increased. The structure of the film, the image quality and sensitometric characteristics are compared with the former type. The relation between light scattering within the emulsion, and definition, is discussed. Sharpness and grain of the new filmstock are given in terms of modulation transfer functions and Wiener spectra, respectively. The spectral sensitivity curves, exposure requirements, processing formulas and procedures are presented."
"The concept of frame unsteadiness is explained and established. A device for the voluntary generation of frame unsteadiness of adjustable magnitude has been developed and has been employed for the systematic investigation of picture steadiness. Its action and performance are described. Statistical and psycho-physical evaluations of frame unsteadiness have been effectuated and limit values for its acceptability have been ascertained. Partial causes, such as the effect of motion-picture apparatus (cameras, printers, projectors, etc.), that of the film as such, and the sum of all these effects are described. Methods for the statistical evaluation of frame unsteadiness are given and are illustrated by frequency diagrams, average value curves and tables for the magnitude of frame unsteadiness for various film sizes. Basic points for the reliability of these methods are established. Finally, some conclusions are drawn with respect to the possibility of amelioration of frame unsteadiness in cameras, printers and projectors."
"An entire day was devoted to aerospace science and technology and to oceanography at the 102nd Technical Conference held in Chicago, 17 through 22 September 1967. Ten papers on aerospace television occupied a major portion of two sessions. Of the ten papers, Hughes Aircraft authors supplied eight. Two of these papers were concerned with nonlinearity in TV systems and eight were directly related to the Surveyor project. — When the first Surveyor landed on the moon and relayed its pictures back to earth it seemed like a happy accident. Since then, many Surveyors have landed on the moon with almost pinpoint accuracy. Soft landing of a Surveyor on the moon provided a means for taking close-up pictures of the moon's surface and then relaying these pictures back to earth via television. It also provided another first: a picture of the earth taken from the moon. Thus, another of man's dreams came true. — Some of the problems encountered in providing a proper TV system for the Surveyor and the subsequent solutions are discussed in these papers.—V. D. Armstrong, 102nd Technical Conference Topic Chairman."
"Inherent in every TV imaging tube are the horizontal and vertical sweep nonlinearities resulting from sweep-speed variations across the face of the tube; these are due to the variation in beam travel distance and the physical limitations involved in regulating the electric and magnetic fields that control the scanning beam. Practical limitations on the degree to which these distortions can be controlled make very important certain extremely accurate procedures for subsequent correction of distortions. These distortions can be partially removed from either the output video signal or from the processed TV print or negative. The corrective process utilizes a matrix of marks called a reseau, which is affixed to the faceplate of the imaging tube. The number and spacing of the marks are dependent upon the accuracy of the distortion correction procedure and the acceptability criterion placed on residual distortion. Derivations are given for two Surveyor-developed linear-distortion correction processes which utilize a reseau. Several applications of the technique are cited."
"The basic design considerations for the configuration of a TV camera reseau for Surveyor systems to obtain scientific and engineering information include use of the reseau for the reduction of geometric distortion contained in the TV pictures reproduced on earth. For most of these pictures, the correction of distortion is not required; however, when the objectives are considered it becomes important to reduce the geometric distortion of selected data points of given scenes to a value that will permit calculation of an accuracy commensurate with other system errors. The magnitude and characteristics of the distortion due to the electronic scanning process must be accurately assessed before designing the reseau."
"Vertical jitter in a television system is caused by variations in sweep rate of the vertical-sweep voltage or current. For the Surveyor TV system, establishing a meaningful tolerance on vertical jitter was the object of a study of the effects of jitter on vertical resolution, signal-to-noise ratio, and line brightness variations, with some emphasis on the results expected for systems utilizing destructive readout and a shuttered mode of operation. The problem was approached by (1) using a mathematical model constructed for the readout and erasure process and applying this model to calculate line brightness variations due to vertical jitter and (2) analyzing the degradation in vertical resolution in terms of scene spectral densities. It was concluded that jitter distortion of the video due to high-frequency vertical-sweep noise could become significant. The results based on spectral densities led to a somewhat more severe jitter requirement than that obtained by the method of setting a limit to allowable line-to-line brightness variation."
"To insure proper TV operation, extensive system level testing is performed on the Surveyor television subsystem, to uncover any problems caused by spacecraft design, complex spacecraft/system test equipment interface or by ground equipment. Photometric errors which are partially caused by the test setup have required explanation and elimination. Correlation of test results between test phases was difficult, especially when environmental work was involved. Electrically induced troubles, such as electromagnetic interference in the launch pad environment, telemetry errors and telecommunications anomalies involved much study to initiate corrective action."
"The data relayed by the Surveyor TV system has been improved by data-processing techniques. To effect this improvement the system must be calibrated by determination of the transfer function from the object space viewed by the camera to the data output of the ground support equipment. This includes the Surveyor TV camera system, the modulator and transmitter and the TV Ground Data-Handling System. The major parameters calibrated are light-transfer characteristics for black-and-white and color photography, shading characteristics, erasure characteristics, modulation transfer function, geometric linearity and accuracy of functional control. The calibration effort consists of (1) the collection of component, subassembly and system data during manufacturing and acceptance testing; (2) video recording of the calibration of the spacecraft TV system at Cape Kennedy prior to launch and (3) playback of the video calibration tapes through the ground support equipment."
"The Surveyor spacecraft was designed to soft land on the moon's surface and perform scientific evaluation such as transmitting to earth 600-line TV pictures of the lunar terrain. The TV system had to be designed to survive a temperature range of from — 150 F for three days during transit to +250 F during lunar operation and for as low as — 250 F during the lunar night (14 earth days). The eye of the Surveyor TV system is a 1-in. diameter hybrid vidicon tube. The principles and the construction of the vidicon are the basis for understanding the problems encountered during the elaborate test phase. Some problem areas caused by very low temperatures were peeling of the photoconductor from the inside of the vidicon faceplate and physical and positional changes in internal metal grids. Exposure at high temperature for long periods created spots of various sizes. Vibration levels corresponding to pre-launch testing and launch and lunar loading conditions also contributed problems. Some other problems were the effect of foreign particles inside a tube, and the expected tube life."
"The Surveyor spacecraft has TV cameras equipped with specially designed versatile variable focal-length lenses. Each lens is capable of withstanding extreme environments under the most adverse conditions of an earth launch, earth-moon journey, lunar soft landing and the vacuum and temperature variations of the moon. Each lens assembly is an optically integrated unit consisting of a 25mm to 100mm variable focal-length lens with earth-commanded motor drives for focal length, 4 ft to infinity focus and f/4 to f/22 adjustable iris mechanisms; a reflex viewing system behind the lens for automatic exposure control; solenoid-actuated focal-plane shutter; and motor-driven color filter wheel to provide color picture capability. Effects of radiation on optical transmission, optical performance in a vacuum, outgassing of particles on the lens surfaces, selection of lubricants and an all air-spaced optical design were among the design problems that were solved."
"Electronic equipment in the Surveyor spacecraft is required to operate in three widely differing environments: the launch and boost phase, the transit between earth and moon and the lunar surface. Because of the wide range of lunar temperatures, the equipment must survive both cryogenic temperatures and severe heat exposure. The weight of the electronic assemblies is tightly limited by the weight budget of the spacecraft. The television power-conditioner unit contains examples of solutions to the design problems. Solid-state power conditioning circuits perform the general function of transforming spacecraft bus voltage to the various voltage forms required for camera operation. The circuit design, packaging and production techniques, and the performance characteristics are described to illustrate a typical example of Surveyor spacecraft hardware."
"The Surveyor TV system is basically a direct RF carrier frequency-modulated transmission link, using two scan rates in analog video mode which result in two disparate transmission system bandwidths, and therefore two different demodulation schemes. The ground stations, or receiving subsystem, consist of real-time equipment and a high-quality system with special synchronization techniques. The specific parameters of the subsystem and of both real-time and video data ground-station subsystems are given; and, in addition, underlying formulas and relationships describing the performance of the complete TV link, with numerical-results, including computation of baseband frequency, RF transmission bandwidth, postdetection SNR gray-level resolution, carrier deviation vs. camera light level and line-to-line jitter. Finally, a digital computer simulation of the Surveyor TV signal link is presented, showing the effects of carrier deviation, and predetection SNR on output signal quality and line-to-line jitter."
"The Surveyor spacecraft TV camera has been modified to provide a light integration capability, or bulb mode, to obtain pictures of the lunar surface with only the light reflected from the earth's disc as the illuminating source. The objective is to take pictures of the lunar surface in the event of pre-sunrise landings, but other purposes soon became apparent. Compared with the original Surveyor camera's capability to view stars down to a magnitude of 2, the integrated-mode design allows stars to be viewed down to magnitude 6, with a theoretical limit of magnitude 8. Another interesting application is the detection of the extent of radiation of the corona at various radii from the edge of the solar disc after sunset."
"A short history of underwater photography is given. The necessity for the integrated-systems approach is discussed in terms of the power supply, life support, transportation, safety, lighting, electronics, camera control, optics and film and print processing. Some typical modern systems, integration into the operation and the supporting equipment and vehicles are described."
"For the high-quality ECO Ektachrome masters needed at the Air Force Eastern Test Range, a continuous optical printer was designed. It provides high-speed printing with scene-to-scene color correction. The optical system, transport components and other design considerations are described."
"The SMPTE, through its Engineering Committees, generates standards which aid in producing better quality sound for motion-picture and television audiences. Standards specify film and magnetic stripe dimensions; location, dimensions and reproducing characteristics of audio records; techniques for assessing recorded sound quality; and test films for checking and aligning sound recording and reproducing equipment. A complete list is presented and typical standards are described."
"This Advance Program is a preliminary schedule of papers and sessions. It is as accurate and complete as possible. Before the Conference, however, papers may be added, removed or rearranged into other sessions; entire sessions may be rescheduled. It is therefore recommended that persons who can attend only part of the Conference inquire a week before the Conference by telephoning Society Headquarters in New York (212) TN 7 5410, or Program Chairman Alan M. Gundelfinger, Technicolor Corp., Los Angeles (213) 462 6111. The Final Program booklet will be available ten days before the conference from Society Headquarters, and during Conference week at the Century Plaza Hotel."
"Edit. Note: The Expo 67 Labyrinth production was based on an idea conceived by Roman Kroitor and developed by a team of three National Film Board producers, Roman Kroitor, Hugh O'Connor and Colin Low, with the assistance of many consultants."
"The paper describes the planning, production and show presentation systems required for the unusual multi-screen techniques of this exhibit. The film projection, sound and control equipment are discussed and performance data given."
"The evolution of a five-screen motion-picture presentation system is discussed from initial conception through development stages to final completion of the camera apparatus required to fulfill the function. Details of construction and problems in field cinematography with the five-camera mount are reviewed. The design and fabrication involving five Technical Operations Divisions are explained."
"An exposition as extensive as Expo 67 provides an opportunity for specialists in diverse fields to observe the state of their respective arts. When the field is one of the audio-visual disciplines, the entire exposition represents a gigantic laboratory of the art of exhibiting per se, and standards are established by which future efforts will be measured. — The lion's share of public attention was garnered by novelties of film production and reproduction. To the sound specialist, however, interest was not confined to motion pictures. Almost every area where sound was employed contained some innovation or noteworthy application of established techniques. — This report is based on a visit during the Exposition's fifth month of operation. Of necessity, coverage could only be representative, at best. Inclusion or omission of pavilions or individual presentations in no way is meant to imply criticism. The purpose of the following observations and comments—mainly but not exclusively concerned with sound—is an examination of (1) where and (2) under what conditions audiences received their mass age massage, (3) the auditory means employed to this end, and (4) how elements of sound functioned; in brief: (1) architecture, (2) reception, (3) means and (4) function."
"Photooptical recording of timing signals on the edge of motion-picture films is a regular requirement on many cameras used by the aerospace industry. The recording consists of regularly spaced, fine-line timing marks, plus pulse-width modulated rectangular blocks which define discrete time codes at regular intervals. Several previous papers have defined the problems of using miniature neon or argon lamps to record timing signals. Some improvements in mechanical-optical packaging have been proposed. This paper presents neon lamp data on new types, standard vs. high brightness, more certain ionization and “keep alive” circuits, lamp current vs. life, and operating ranges. Improvement in optical efficiency of signal recording blocks is examined. Wider operating range and more reliable recording by use of new electroluminescent (EL) diodes is considered. Sample 16mm recordings at 4 to 600 frames/s are analyzed. Available EL diodes with visible range emission are listed."
"Techniques using the three parameters of the sin2 window signal (pulse tops and risetime) and a chroma pulse signal with which to measure directly the TV impairments in all the distinct time domains that pertain to a color TV picture permit sensitive and accurate measurements to be made that correlate with subjective TV picture impairments more directly than earlier techniques utilizing steady-state measurements. The methods described are applicable to complete TV systems as well as system components."
"A new technique for image enhancement permits both vertical and horizontal equalization of an encoded NTSC signal without the generation of black-and-white overshoots and without the use of clippers in the main signal path. A phantom channel is used to improve the long-term drift characteristics of the equalizer. Level dependent equalization and crispening are also employed to permit a maximum of equalization with a minimum introduction of noise. A companion masking amplifier employs low-pass filters in the masking channel to permit optimum live camera, pre-gamma masking without the introduction of noise. When used together these two units produce considerable subjective improvement in the broadcast color signal."
"A continuous color test signal facility in the complex color-camera system is potentially a major contributing factor in the evolution of a uniformly satisfactory color broadcast system. Quality at present is not determined by the specific type of color system (NTSC, PAL, SECAM). It is determined by the actual maintenance and operation in the system used. For this quality control the simplified color-bar test signal has been devised. It is designated as the SLCB signal to distinguish this internal camera test signal from the general vertical interval test (VIT) signals used by broadcast networks for monitoring the cross-country microwave links and other video transmission systems. The SLCB signal facility is described as an adjunct to the automatic error-proof technique employed for its generation and insertion in the NTSC color signal."
"A new, quiet operating 16mm camera for single- and double-system sound filming includes these innovations: fully automatic reel-to-reel threading, fully automatic behind-the-lens light measuring, controlling the speed of a motor electronically, electrical operation of the camera, zooming and focusing, and an improved viewer with instant change from ground-glass to clear-glass field. The weight of this camera rests completely on the shoulder of the cameraman. The hand grips serve only for guiding the camera and controlling its operation, rather than supporting the weight of the camera. Starting and stopping are instantaneous and are controlled electronically. The same motor serves for variable-speed filming from 12 to 50 frames/s, forward and reverse, for synchronous running, as well as for single-frame filming."
"The June 1964 SMPTE Journal (pp. 491–492) discusses a footage counter* which the author prematurely described as practically maintenance free. The pulsing switches started to malfunction, however, with replacements relatively short lived. A new approach seemed necessary."
"This standard applies to capacitors designed for shunt connection to alternating current power transmission and distribution systems operating at a nominal frequency of 60 cycles or less."
"The purpose of this Recommended Practice is to describe the power-factor tip-up of coil insulation and to establish preferred procedures for its measurement."
"This Standard covers usual and unusual environmental service conditions; nominal voltage ratings, allowable voltage and supply frequency variations and ripple, and insulation withstand voltage levels."
"This standard prescribes methods for performing tests specified in USA Standard General Requirements for Distribution, Power, and Regulating Transformers, and Shunt Reactors, C57.12.00-1968, and in the separate apparatus standards of the C57.12 Series of USA Standards."
"This publication pertains to wide-band transformers, transmitting power of more than 100 watts.* Guides to application and test procedures are included. Appendices contain certain precautions and recommended practices. Provision is made for including data for use in the design of feedback amplifiers and control networks or other circuits in which knowledge of the transformer amplitudeand phase-frequency response is needed by the system designer. These transformers are required to transform voltage within specified tolerances of amplitude and phase when operating between specified impedances."
"A discussion of the available standard phase shifters, the general principles of measurement techniques, and the basic measurement precautions is included in this report along with a bibliography of pertinent literature. This is one of a series of such reports planned under a program being carried out by the IEEE. The data in this report have been assembled by a special subcommittee working in the field of microwave phase-shift measurements."
"Presents the front cover or splash screen of the proceedings record."
"The following topics are dealt with: failure mechanisms; electrical insulation; dielectric testing; and overhead transmission lines."
"Presents an index of the authors whose articles are published in the conference proceedings record."
"Present manned space vehicles use low pressure oxygen without diluents for the breathing atmosphere. Future manned space vehicles may use atmospheres composed either of pure oxygen or oxygen with various inert gas diluents. Some proposed diluents are helium, neon, and nitrogen. Neon, as a diluent, has been used successfully in diving work by the Royal Navy and in experimental space chambers (Reference 1). This paper presents data on the breakdown voltage and corona onset voltage in helium-oxygen mixtures. Corona onset voltage may be a consideration in selecting the optimum mixture ratio, because in general corona onset voltage in gas mixtures is a function of the mixture ratio."
"The intensified search** for lightweight, small diameter hook-up wire came to the forefront with the Surveyor lunar landing craft. Today, in the aerospace field, there is an interest in mini-trend hook-up wire. The increased capabilities sought in electronic systems builds wire volumes to thousands of circuits. Wire harness bulk and weight thus become an area for reduction efforts."
"In the last ten years low loss copper clad laminates have won widespread acceptance for fabricating a versatile new form of microwave circuitry called stripline. Yet there are not at present any standardized tests for evaluating the dielectric properties of stripline substrates1. This paper is directed particularly to materials and measurement engineers who have some familiarity with general microwave measurements, but require an introduction to the special problems involved in testing stripline materials."
"In the last decade considerable research effort has been devoted to the exploitation of vacuum as an insulating medium. The impetus for this work has come mainly from the rapidly expanding technology of high power x-ray tubes, high energy particle accelerators and space exploration. Most of the research endeavour has been devoted to the study of breakdown across vacuum gaps under steady d.c. fields. Comparatively little attention has been given to the problems of solid insulators in vacuum. In any high voltage vacuum device there must be at least one insulator/vacuum interface which is subjected to the full voltage of the device. The physical size of the vacuum enclosure is often determined by the insulation performances of the solid insulator. Insulators are used for the support of high voltage electrodes and in many cases form the vacuum enclosure (e.g. x-ray and accelerator tubes)."
"A series of experiments has been designed to study the factors influencing high voltage vacuum breakdown under conditions pertinent to high power tube operation at 100 to 300 kV. The need for this has been generated by present-day requirements for extremely high power radar and communication systems, high energy particle accelerators and ion-propulsion systems. The demand is greatest in components such as vacuum tubes and vacuum capacitors, where high voltage must be insulated by vacuum in small spaces. Therefore, a reliable relation between the hold-off voltage and the factor or factors that affect electrical breakdown in vacuum is needed for design of these components."
"The increase in importance of effective EMI (electromagnetic interference) shielding is obvious from the ever increasing space devoted to this problem in technical journals. The required attention to the shielding aspects of design, of components and equipments, has become a significant part of manufacturing costs. This paper describes a new tool or tools to assist the design engineer in overcoming the problem of RF leakage. Pressure sensitive tapes with metal for backing have been available for some years and these do provide a limited degree of shielding. More recently metal foil tapes that are electrically conductive through, rather than just along the tape, have become available. These increase the utility of the metal foil backing in shielding applications by a factor of 100 +, because they now provide a mechanism for direct conductivity from a metal surface to the tape backing."
"This paper discusses general embedment techniques applicable to miniaturized, high voltage power supply systems for space applications, such as shown in Figure 1. The need for minimum size, weight, and reliable performance of several years in deep space environment is a severe requirement for the insulation of these systems. It is known that voids (bubbles) in the insulation of high voltage systems can result in sudden partial breakdown of the insulation. Such insulation breakdown, generally referred to as Corona Discharge or Partial Discharge, results from high electric field stress in the insulation."
"As a result of the incorporation of very high impedance devices and components such as operational amplifiers and field effect transistors on etched circuits, the insulation resistance of the reinforced laminate substrate begins to approach those of electronic components. All of the factors which reduce this insulation resistance, such as increasing temperature, high humidity and contamination, become increasingly more important to control."
"The purpose of this paper is to report on the reaction of typical commercial grades of laminated plastics to tests of their mechanical and electrical endurance under aircraft environments."
"This paper describes two specific coaxial cable problems involving the use of TFE Teflon dielectric. One involves flexible coaxial cable, and the other application is semirigid coaxial cable. The electrical requirements of each could aptly be met by the excellent electrical characteristics of TFE Teflon. However, although the material has many outstanding environmental characteristics, its performance, in the two applications described herein, caused severe problems."
"Wiring within the unpressurized compartments of the supersonic airplane is subjected to environmental stresses which are much greater than in subsonic airplanes. For example, during supersonic flight at an altitude of 73,000 feet the wire will be exposed to an air pressure of 29 torr and temperatures approaching 260°C. These extreme environmental conditions can give rise to corona within the electrical/electronic systems."
"During supersonic flight of the F-111 aircraft, high temperatures are developed in the airstream around some portions of the pullout cable assemblies which electrically join externally mounted armament to the aircraft. Therefore, construction materials and associated components in these assemblies must be capable of surviving certain temperature extremes and must reliably perform a subsequent set of mechanical and electrical functions. To achieve these functional requirements, the cable assemblies are constructed with insulations, hardware, joining materials, sealants, and components which can adequately sustain the in-flight environments as well as the severe long-term storage conditions and the potentially hazardous operations at the time of installation, during flight, and during uncoupling of the connectors from the armament at the time of its release."
"By the way of introduction to you who are not familiar with Sandia Laboratory and its operations, I will give you a few pertinent facts about Sandia. We are located in the eastern edge of Albuquerque, New Mexico, and work with the Los Alamos Scientific Laboratory in the design and development of hardware for nuclear bombs and missiles. In general this hardware may be described as ballistic cases, arming and fusing and firing systems, testing and handling equipment associated with nuclear weapons. We have another laboratory located in Livermore, California, which does similar work with the Lawrence Radiation Laboratory at Livermore. Our beginning was back in 1949 when President Truman asked the Bell System to accept a no-fee, no-profit contract with the Government to perform this task. Our accomplishments to date have been due to the careful attention to the series of unique and demanding requirements. Nuclear weapons must 1. be extremely safe to handle, for an unintential detonation would be catastrophic; 2. they must be highly reliable - they must work the first time they are energized after lying in storage for many years; and 3. they must be able to withstand environmental extremes of mechanical shock, temperature, changes, moisture, vibration and acceleration. While most of our work is devoted to nuclear weapons for the government, Sandia Laboratory is now releasing more and more unclassified information for non-military applications. Our 1500°F insulated wire was developed for a specific application within our system; now we fully recognize that these requirements do not represent general use conditions for all wire insulations, but we hope that by sharing this technology with electrical manufacturers that some of the aspects of this process will be useful to your applications. The general design parameters given to us at the beginning of this project were: that the internal hook-up wire to be used in an inertial switch must maintain a dielectric strength of 200 volts per mil during 1500°F exposure; it must be flexible to permit 90° bending prior to the elevated temperatures; and it must be contamination-free so that it will not outgas or emit particles which could contaminate switching contacts during our operational temperatures between -65°F and 200°F. This process development project has evolved around a thermal barrier silicone rubber (TBS 758)® developed by General Electrical Silicone Products Department, and other materials added for reinforcement and processing aids. The ultimate reinforcing material has proven to be boron nitride long staple fibers (BNF) produced by the New Products Division of Carborundum Company."
"Typically a gas is almost a perfect electrical insulator which allows its widespread use in that capacity. When an electric field of sufficient intensity is applied across a gas, it can become an electrical conductor. The transition from the electrically insulating state to the electrically conducting state is called electric breakdown. This paper is a tutorial attempt to review the fundamental physical processes involved in electric breakdown in gases. The basic processes are presented rather than a complete and encyclopedic review. There are several review articles and books to which the reader can refer for amplification1-5."
"The need to know the effects of temperature on electrical insulation was first analyzed and discussed when Steinmetz and Lamme published their paper in 1913 entitled “Temperature and Electrical Insulation”.1 This classic paper not only reflects the generally accepted concepts of their day but also introduces the theory that insulation deteriorates over a period of time at certain given temperatures."
"The moisture conditioning cycle is recognized as probably the most critical factor in the functional evaluation of rotating machinery insulation systems. An analysis is made of some of the humidity problems currently existing, particularly in respect to the use of the now proposed IEEE 117 Test Procedure and the NRL designed condensation chamber. A time dependence ratio of surface to bulk absorption has been discovered which varies with the degree of thermal aging. This is explored. Cautionary measures are given for use of the condensation chamber with recommendations as to temperature differentials and exposure time durations needed to insure stable test conditions."
"Twenty years ago a paper entitled “Functional Evaluation of Insulating Materials”1 proposed a philosophy that only evaluation techniques based upon functional needs are truly significant in the selection and application of insulating materials. Since that time, the idea has gained momentum with many contributions from many individuals. Last year at the ei* conference in Chicago, the complexity of the evaluation problem was emphasized by a paper2 which described how service variables so greatly affect just three dielectric properties - voltage breakdown, restivity and dielectric loss."
"Within the last few years the trend toward underground distribution of power has been rapidly growing. It is estimated that the number of new customers served by the Underground Residential Distribution (URD) and the number of miles of new underground cable will at least double by 1970."
"The subject of this session relates to Electrical Insulation Systems and it is to such systems or more particularly to one such system that I wish to direct attention."
"Epoxy impregnants are being used in many applications for the environmental protection of magnet coils in motors, transformers, solenoids and reactors, and even for completed electronic circuit functional blocks. The physical properties of the epoxy resin compounds used are ideally suited, in most cases, for this purpose. These properties may be varied from rigid to flexible, transparent to opaque, and from high to low impregnating viscosity. They may also be formulated to specific degrees of toughness, impact resistance, low shrinkage, high moisture resistance, and superior resistance to a host of solvents and chemicals, notably alkalies. With a proper formulation, it is possible to apply an epoxy compound by molding, casting, dipping, vacuum impregnating or even spraying. Thus, their properties may be tailored to fit a greater variety of applications than the more widely used and less expensive impregnating varnishes."
"Perhaps the most familiar property of a dielectric material is the capacitance increase observed when a sheet of dielectric is inserted between the plates of an “air” capacitor. In fact, the ratio of dielectric to air-filled capacitance is often used to define the dielectric constant ε'. Defined in this way, its magnitude becomes a property of the material, independent of the measuring voltage or geometry of the test capacitor. The range of values for polymers is not large. The lower limit is in the neighborhood of 2 and it is rare to see one as high as 10."
"During the past several decades of rather intensive study of corona (partial) discharges and their effects on insulation systems, most of the attention has been focused on a-c discharge behavior. This has been rightly motivated by the much more serious effects of corona in most a-c insulation applications, where usually many more discharges can occur, during an average time, than with d-c. Because discharges in d-c insulation systems are much more intermittent, their rate of erosion or penetration of insulation barriers is correspondingly reduced, and it has been practical to apply much higher d-c stresses, without completely preventing corona, than with a-c cases. This characteristic of d-c stresses has been utilized effectiyely in d-c over-voltage testing of insulation systems, particularly of rotating machines."
"This paper summarizes the ionization effects that occur in insulators and electrical parts using insulating materials. The objective is to discuss the relevant mechanisms of ionization charge motion in insulating materials and to present rules of thumb whereby an estimate can be made of the magnitude of perturbation caused in electronic parts by ionizing radiation."
"Magnet wires are used on the basis of thermal life ratings.3,6 The end user of equipment relies on thermal life ratings to get some idea of the reliability of insulation systems. If there is confusion in the use of thermal life ratings, then this can result in a downgrading of reliability of electrical equipment, without the user being aware of the loss in reliability."
"Reduction in component size and higher ambient temperature conditions are two of the main causes of increased thermal stresses placed upon electrical insulation materials. By virtue of its simplicity in use, pressure-sensitive adhesive (PSA) tape offers the end user economy, versatility, and speed. Although PSA tape constitutes only one component of an insulation system, its ability to operate effectively at the elevated temperatures will determine, along with the other components, the life of the system. The development and introduction of new insulation materials effectively increases the ability of PSA tapes to meet the challenge of higher temperature demands. For this discussion, high temperature is defined as Class 155 and above."
"There is much technical data on the properties and behavior of magnet wire enamels on their conductors, that is, as magnet wire. However, the behavior of the enamel resin is influenced by the presence of and its adherence to the conductor. We have determined certain basic physical properties of unsupported magnet wire enamel films. These results are useful in better understanding the behavior of the corresponding magnet wires. Table I gives the enamels investigated by type and source."
"The effects of sustained voltages on magnet wire films has been the subject of a previous paper. The continuing results of this work, particularly at lower voltages, are reported here. The tests have been expanded to include the newer Class H film constructions, not generally available when the earlier tests were started. Further work is also described on the effects of aging in a nitrogen atmosphere and in air at high humidity both, at an elevated temperature."
"During the past few years, considerable effort has been given to the development of heat-resistant thermosetting resins for electrical applications.* Two base resins are now commercially available with some choice of monomer components, depending on the end-use application. Resin 7000* is recommended for long-term performance at temperatures up to and including 220 °C, while 7001,* a lower cost resin, is suggested for temperatures through 200 °C. Both resins can withstand short exposures at considerably higher temperatures. Properties of clear castings and filled mat laminates are excellent. Both mechanical and electrical properties are maintained during thermal aging."
"In all electrical equipment operating at a potential over about 2000 volts the problem of the penetration of walls, normally at ground potential, by current-carrying conductors is one which must be solved. The normal solution is a bushing which will provide the necessary conductor isolation and frequently will also perform the function of a gas or oil seal. A well-designed bushing will perform its function with little measureable dielectric loss and will not distort the circuit with an objectionable discharge at operating voltage levels. While discharge inception above nominal operating voltage is usually the point of reference, it is not the sole operational criterion. The possible presence of transient overvoltages, even for short periods of time, may cause the inception of discharge. It is therefor mandatory in a bushing that the discharge extinction voltage be above the operating level in order that transient induced discharges may not be continued at the operating voltage level."
"The standard comparative and absolute dielectric tests in the U.S.A. for solids, liquids and gases are those of the ASTM.1 These are comprehensive and delineate the significant tests which should be carried out to specify the relevant electrical characteristics for a wide range of conditions of voltage, application and measurement, conditioning, surrounding medium and exposure to coronas, arcs, moisture and gaseous, liquid and solid contaminants. However, recent developments in high power pulse technology and the extension of generation and transmission voltages towards the megavolt region have brought to attention some limitations in these test methods. This paper is concerned with just two; namely, area of electrodes and volume of the dielectric stressed to greater than 90% of the test voltage. The main problem is that recent tests have shown that the dielectric strength of liquids and solids is a function of both of these parameters and, therefore, meaningful extrapolations become difficult, particularly if the relationship varied from one dielectric to another."
"In magnet wires the thermal stability of the insulated wire is gauged by tests of twisted-paired conductors (ASTM D2307-64T).5 This determines the thermal life rating of the wire, based upon the Arrhenius equation and the assumption of a first order degradation. S. D. Bruck6 determined the activation energies for decomposition of a polyimide film to be 33 kcal/mole in air and 72 kcal/mole in vacuum. It is seen that thermal stability is also a function of the environment (air, vacuum). If the polyimide magnet wire is exposed to a steam environment (120°C, 15 psig), the life of the film as determined by an 1100 volt breakdown test is of the order of 103 hours.2 The life of the polyimide in air is of the order of 20,000 hours at 220 °C. It is evident that the activation energy of the polymide film in a steam environment would thus be far lower than its value of 33 kcal/mole in air."
"The purpose of the investigation, as pointed out, was to study varnishes as a component and to obtain temperature indices for different type varnishes. The Laboratory was also interested in establishing a basis for possible correlation between these methods and accelerated tests. With this investigation, additional data was made available which supplemented round robin data obtained by Subcommittee I of ASTM Committee D9 in its work on the weight loss technique for ASTM Test Method D115."
"It is well known that most synthetic polymers are poor conductors of electricity and heat. This observation confirms the fact that very few, if any, electrons capable of migrating under the influence of an externally applied electric or thermal gradient exist in these polymers. Consequently the determination of the dielectric properties of these materials represents a serious challenge to the investigator, since the detection of such small concentration of electrons or electric charges is extremely difficult. Not only must attention be given to the generation and transport mechanisms of electric charges in the material to be tested; the capabilities of the test equipment have to be matched to the requirements of the material and proper test methods selected. These aspects will be discussed in some detail in this paper and a few experimental results will be reviewed to illustrate these points."
"The motor designer today often uses graded slot configurations for appliance drive motor stators. Multi-size and shape slots today are considered a standard design rather than an exception. Shorter magnet wire end turns and more efficient use of lamination iron often result in smaller motors and/or reduced wire and iron consumption."
"The search for improved insulation systems for higher temperature goes on continually. What has been accomplished in the past few years has been truly significant. Upgraded thermal endurance of materials has enabled design engineers to produce high reliability, high performance machines for the most sophisticated applications."
"Applications for higher service temperature rigid thermosetting electrical insulation for rotating machinery are increasing each year. Higher service temperatures allow a reduction in size, weight and, frequency, cost of electrical apparatus. The limitations in maximizing service temperature have traditionally been the thermal endurance and cost of the electrical insulation."
"A large amount of technical information has been written and published on many insulation system concepts and system details for the original manufacture of rotating apparatus, but relatively little information exists on concepts and systems of the service organization who have to rebuild this equipment when it becomes necessary, therefore, the purpose of this paper is to discuss a “Service Insulation System” developed as a replacement system for rebuilding large rotating machinery."
"“Hermetic Motors” is the term used in this paper to describe those motors, completely contained within sealed enclosures, which are parts of refrigeration systems. The design of these units is such that magnet wire, used for the motor windings, must operate in both gaseous and liquid refrigerant environments. In addition to this, temperatures vary over a wide range and at times may rise very rapidly due to overload conditions."
"The rapid and varied growth of modern technology has created many new requirements for large industrial motors employing form-wound pre-insulated coils. In an increasing percentage of these applications a motor is required to operate with a high degree of reliability under severe environmental conditions that may adversely affect the insulation system of the machine.1,2,15,4,5,6 Further, the trend toward less elaborate motor enclosures increases the exposure of the insulation to the degrading environmental influences. This has magnified the necessity for providing an insulation system possessing the capability of resisting the environmental influences. The type of environmental conditions referred to are found in the chemical, rubber, food, and plastics industries, where machines may be exposed to direct water spray or highly humid conditions, due to “washing down” operations with water or steam. Also, in pipe line and utility applications, essentially open motors are placed in outdoor locations that afford little, if any, protection from the elements. In still other instances, motors may even be flooded due to weather extremes. In some applications, degrading chemicals may be present in the form of solutions or suspensions. However, regardless of the type of chemical contaminant, it is of prime importance that insulation systems for motors operating in such environments be highly resistant to moisture penetration. Consequently, considerable effort has been expended by motor manufacturers in an attempt to develop insulation systems capable of providing trouble-free service under severe operational environments. The end users have recognized the problem by requiring nonstandard acceptance tests. In some cases, contractual requirements have specified that units for particular applications be capable of passing high potential tests and/or maintaining a minimum insulation resistance while submerged in water for a specified time. This is in addition to the ASA C-50 final acceptance tests."
"A new composite tubular insulating system has been developed. This system is composed of a dual wall tubing of modified polyvinylidene fluoride on the outside and polyolefin on the inside. Approximately the same wall thickness of each type of material is used in the construction."
"There has been a continuing history of failures of insulation systems in shipboard electric motors due to high humidity, condensation and flooding. In earlier work on this problem the Navy let a contract to a commercial company for the development of an electric insulation system specifically intended for induction motors subjected to occasional submergence in sea water. The performance under submerged condition of the insulation so developed was reported by Hackney and Walker1. In this paper they also outlined the various insulation systems that were studied along with those that were discarded during the development of the improved system. The performance of this new insulation system when subjected to other severe environmental conditions of long-term high humidity, steam, and salt spray was reported by Walker and Flaherty2. It was demonstrated that an encapsulated insulation system was vastly superior to each of 15 different varnish-impregnated insulation systems in withstanding severe environmental conditions."
"A broad comparative study of the causes of electric motor failure is difficult to accomplish. Motor manufacturers are involved in failure studies, as such, but only as far as is appropriate to satisfy warranty requirements. Once the warranty period has passed the motor manufacturer almost never is advised of the cause of failure and, as a result, an attempt by the manufacturer to continue a failure study beyond the warranty period would be extremely difficult and costly. Motor users, although exceedingly interested in maximum motor life, do not have the range of failures sufficient to determine trends and percentages that can be applied to a general motor population. Frequently the user does not particularly care why a motor fails, but rather only that it has failed. Two surveys have been conducted, however, dealing with motor failures. They were accomplished at a large motor repair facility in Southern California by two separate individuals 17 years apart. Each survey dealt with the same general geographical area, the same general climate, the same general cross section of industrial users, and the same general motor population profile. The results of each of these surveys demonstrates significant changes in the causes of electric motor failure. Consequently they yield considerable factual evidence about the field performance and usage of three-phase industrial electric motors. The first survey was concluded in 1950 and encompassed 8,000 to 10,000 motor failures. The motor population at that time was predominantly Class A rated. The insulation system was composed of cellulosics such as rag paper, capaco, and cotton. Formvar-type magnet wire films and phenolic insulating varnishes had matured to popular use. Motor duty was accommodated by a service factor of 1.2 or more. The copper and steel were \"worked\" conservatively. The effects of a 50 to 60 cycle frequency change (1945-1948) were still visible. The second survey was finished in 1967 and included 4,076 failures. The sample during this survey was mostly rated Class B with a 1.15 service factor or less. Polyester plastics and resins had come into vogue as Mylar® and Dacron cell insulation, polyester magnet wire films, and insulating varnishes. The encapsulated motor winding had come into popular approval by 1967. Epoxy systems in the form of composites, films, and liquids were gaining on the comfortable position formerly achieved by the polyesters. The results of these two surveys are offered as Table I."
"Premature failure of rotating equipment may be caused by improper selection of varnish and wire. Proper selection has become more difficult because of the multitude of new wire and varnish polymer systems which have recently evolved. Some of these systems do not exhibit straight line thermal degradation curves. Further, too much emphasis has been given to system selection based upon thermal life data for varnished twisted pairs. Although the basic method of test is good, the results can be misleading if consideration is not given to other important factors. These factors, screening tests, and typical wire-varnish systems, are presented in this paper to help the electrical design engineer select the best combination of wire and varnish."
"High voltage ac motors with ratings from a few hundred kW may, during normal operation, be subjected to steep-fronted impulse voltages which can be hazardous to the turn-to-turn insulation. The rise time of these impulse voltages can be as short as 0.2 microsecond. These problems were discussed by R. M. Sexton in a recent paper1 where further references can be found."
"The breakdown of end turn insulation in high voltage rotating equipment due to “tracking” appears to be an often unrecognized cause of failure. End turns insulation of form wound coils often becomes coated with dirt when machines operate in contaminating environments. In the presence of high humidity, the contaminant coating be comes conductive. If a leak in the insulation permits current to flow in the coating, tracking and erosion of the insulation can occur. The erosion through the insulation may lead to a short between two adjacent conductors or a breakdown to ground near the core. When a motor fails due to tracking, the coils are usually badly carbonized on the end turns and therefore the analysis of the true cause of failure is often difficult. Chemical or corona attack on the insulation, high voltage surges and mechanical damage are among other causes which might be suspected when failures occur in the end turn area. Although these causes undoubtedly contribute their share of failures, the presence of dirt on the end turns of a motor which has failed requires that the possibility of tracking be definitely considered."
"Reliable hermetic refrigeration systems require the use of trouble-free motors since there is no opportunity for motor replacement or repair during the operating life of the unit. The hermetic motor is sealed into the system and is exposed to lubricating oil and refrigerant and this environment places special demands on the insulation materials. The ground insulation, wire enamels and varnishes which are used must withstand the physical, electrical, chemical and thermal stresses in the operating environment. In addition to retaining their functional properties, the insulation materials must not be a source of contaminants to the other components in the system."
"The greater strength, lighter weight and lower cost of reinforced plastic insulator bodies and other line hardware make them extremely desirable from an economic point of view. Unfortunately, all of the polymers, chiefly epoxy and polyester, presently used for this purpose, are subject to degradation when exposed to weathering for extended periods. The result is a deterioration of the insulator surface, loss of surface resistivity, increased current leakage and ultimate flashover to failure."
"Providing the most dependable electric service to the maximum number of users at the lowest possible cost has been, and continues to be, the primary goal of the electric utilities of this country. There was a time, in the earlier years of the industry, when the realization of each of these goals presented a real challenge. However, over the years, technological progress has been steady, the goals have been largely realized and today's more affluent and much more urbanly oriented population has come to expect uninterrupted service. Far from being a luxury, it is now a necessity. Can you imagine high rise apartment buildings without automatic elevator service? Can you picture a suburban home without electric lights, refrigerator, TV set or any of the multitude of appliances that make our lives so comfortable and pleasant?"
"Over the past decade, there has been a rapid increase in both the power and service voltages of transformers and reactors. The use of greatly reduced insulation levels has become wide-spread. This trend gave rise to more demanding requirements for transformer and reactor insulation. Drying and impregnation procedures both in the factory and on site, determine the final quality of the insulation. Since EHV equipment is now in wide use, the authors felt the necessity to stress the fact that careful attention to quality and processing leads to definite improvement in insulation."
"Modern overhead lines, particularly at EHV levels require suspension insulators of extremely high reliability. One of the most important properties required for suspension insulators is mechanical strength under tension. However, both the conventional M&E (Mechanical & Electrical) test (USASI 29.2 9.4.5)1) and the routine proof test (9.5.2) cannot give adequate assurance that each individual unit will satisfy the M&E rating and have a sufficient safety margin against the maximum working load. A new factory test, “hydraulic internal pressure test,” has been introduced to improve the strength reliability of suspension insulators."
"Insulators used on high voltage systems are not particularly fragile; but they are, undeniably, brittle. Reasonable familiarity with flaw and fracture theory is prerequisite to an understanding of a brittle material. Consider, for example, the following list which the authors have selected from their subjects and projects of the past year: Analysis of insulator failures, in service or from handling. Gunshot and power arc resistance of suspension insulators. Residual strength of damaged insulators. A method of measuring the “toughness” of ceramic materials. Hydraulic test for suspension insulator shells. Statistical specifications for insulators.1, 2"
"The treating of petroleum products with hydrogen has been used in one form or another for over 30 years. The process, however, had little impact on the petroleum industry for over a decade. This was due to the high cost of hydrogen and the inadequacies of the available catalysts. Approximately 15 years ago, hydrogenation as a refinery process became a reality when low-cost hydrogen from reforming reactions became available. Since then, refining technology has advanced and hydrogenation has become one of the most significant developments in lube processing. Hydrogenation capacity in North America equals about 60% of the total lube capacity and is approaching 125,000 barrels a day at the present time. This volume will increase due to the attractiveness of the process."
"The demands placed on materials used to insulate high voltage equipment are very severe and can be expected to become even more demanding, as voltages and power ratings rise to meet increased consumption of electrical power. Growth in the use of electrical power has doubled over the past ten years and according to some sources may even triple in the next ten years, or even five years."
"Epoxy resin systems, in general, have been applied in many areas and in all phases of industry. They have been used extensively as adhesives for aircraft honeycomb structures and concrete topping compounds, as body solders, caulking compounds, binders for filament wound structures, laminating resins, epoxy based solution coatings, finishes, and many hundreds of casting applications."
"New resilient silicone elastomers are now available which appear to meet the electrical performance requirements for underground residential distribution transformers, whether buried or house mounted. Size, safety, weight and efficiency dictate that single residence transformers for underground distribution systems be of the dry-type. Rigid encapsulants presently being evaluated have limitations. This paper describes a new impregnating and potting material which permits compact transformer design, efficient operation, and long life."
"Insulation resistivity was measured as a function of temperature and electrical stress on slabs of solid dielectric. These data were empirically fitted to a resistivity equation using a time-sharing computer. The transcendental stress equation is then solved for each dielectric using a computer program written for this purpose. Parameters which affect stress distribution are temperature, electrical stress, voltage, cable geometry, and time of electrification."
"This paper will describe two methods of significantly improving the reliable insulating ability of concentric-gap gas-filled systems. The first of these makes use of a thin dielectric coating bonded on one or both concentric conductors. The second utilizes the field of the concentric line to remove free conducting particles electrostatically from the system. This work was done using dc voltages with both polarities applied. These studies can predict the ac performance as well since the formation time of a gas discharge is less than a microsecond and is thereby short compared to the 8 millisecond 60 Hz half period. On the least favorable polarity in 13 atmospheres of SFe, 1100 kV was insulated whereas with nitrogen at 20 atmospheres 850 kV was insulated. The paper closes with a discussion of the operating parameters of ac compressed-gas-insulated cables in the 138 kV to 1000 kV range. These indicate that the power rating of compressed-gas-insulated cables can exceed that of overhead transmission lines at the same voltage. Critical lengths greater than 100 miles and lower loss as a percentage of power transmitted are also obtained. These results are due to the unity dielectric constant, low dielectric loss, and good convective heat transfer properties of compressed gas."
"Over the past 40 or more years, the electric utility industry has met and solved a variety of problems and challenges. Let me pose some possible future problems, mainly to try to explain to the skeptical why a utility man might be interested in microwave power transmission. Admittedly, the probability that these particular problems will actually arise is not very great, but that is beside the point; other actual or more likely problems lead to the same considerations (but not as naturally or dramatically)."
"The electric utility industry faces a growing need for improvement in the technology of underground transmission. Not only are the blocks of power being generated and transmitted increasing steadily, but there is increased pressure for elimination of large overhead lines in suburban areas. Although it seems clear that the cost of transmission will continue to favor overhead systems, the amount and proportion of underground transmission will continue to increase."
"In recent years more and more attention has been directed to the development of electrical equipment operating at cryogenic temperatures. The application of superconductors in high field magnets is well known, but superconductivity appears to be less advantageous for devices such as cable and transformers. Instead, the low resistance of copper and particularly of very pure aluminum at liquid hydrogen temperatures may prove to be very useful. To capitalize most fully on the cryogenic ambient, it seems appropriate to consider the advantages in respects other than decreased resistance in the conductors. So far, improvement in magnetic characteristics does not seem likely at cryogenic temperatures. However, cryogenic insulation systems do appear to offer potential advantage, particularly at high voltages."
"High pressure gas mixtures have been used for a number of years as the dielectric media for selected high voltage systems and components. Typical applications range from the Van de Graaff high voltage electrostatic generator to transformers, bushings and circuit breakers. The principal advantages of this medium as compared to liquid and solid dielectrics are that it is flexible in that the breakdown, field strength and total voltage characteristics of any electrode configuration can be varied simply by varying the gas mixture and pressure. An added and probably more important advantage, however, is its recovery characteristic after electrical breakdown and passage of high energy. Thus, gas gaps completely recover, usually within microseconds whereas liquid and solid gaps maintain a conducting path which can be removed normally only by recirculating and cleaning the liquid or replacing the solid."
"Ionization of neutral atoms and molecules by electrons to produce more electrons is the principal cause of electrical breakdown of insulation whether it be solid, liquid or gas. If the medium is to insulate, then the above process must be kept under control to prevent successive electron avalanches increasing in magnitude and leading to breakdown. There are two ways to do this: 1. Prevent the initiating electrons from leaving the cathode or its immediate vicinity. 2. Prevent the initiating electrons from gaining enough energy between collisions to ionize the neutrals sufficient to lead to a non-reversible breakdown process."
"Conference proceedings front matter may contain various advertisements, welcome messages, committee or program information, and other miscellaneous conference information. This may in some cases also include the cover art, table of contents, copyright statements, title-page or half title-pages, blank pages, venue maps or other general information relating to the conference that was part of the original conference proceedings."
"Presents the table of contents/splash page of the proceedings record."
"Conference proceedings back matter may contain various advertisements, indexes, and other miscellaneous conference information. This may in some cases also include committee or program information, blank pages, venue maps or other general information relating to the conference that was part of the original conference proceedings."
"In the review of the “Contributions of the Chemist to Insulation Research” for 1936–1937, the various types of synthetic resins available for electrical insulation were given as “… phenol formaldehyde, urea formaldehyde, aniline formaldehyde, furfural formaldehyde, cellulose acetate, cellulose nitrate, ethyl cellulose, vinyl resins, casein, acrylic, coumarone, polystyrene, synthetic rubber and certain resins based on phthalic anhydride.” Today the majority of these resins have been completely overshadowed, if not made obsolete, by newer resins."
"Thermoplastic polymers have been studied by a number of workers, and the literature in the field is very extensive; in contrast, the literature on thermosets is meager. Much of the published work is on the determination of the physical or electrical properties, but work on the linking of these properties to the structure of the polymers is almost nonexistent. This work was undertaken to obtain some idea of the interrelation between the bonding and electrical properties in thermosets. The paper deals with the relations between bonding and electrical conduction currents."
"The phenomenological theory of Perlman and Meunier,1 among others, predicts many of the measurable properties of electrets, but very little is known about microscopic mechanisms responsible for this effect. The electret effect is present to widely varying degrees in all solids, and Cross and Hart chose to work with 1-tetra-decanol. This paper describes continuing work with normal 1-tetradecanol; and with 1-tetradecanol in which the -OH groups have been deuterated, that is, replaced with -OD groups. The substitution was expected to play a significant role in electret behavior because the substitution of the proton with a deuteron would affect the hydrogen bonding, conduction by proton transfer, and dipole moments."
"It is known from previous light-scattering and dielectric measurements that the poly(n-butyl isocyanate) (PBIC) molecule has a stiff and rigid conformation and can be described as rodlike.1,2 The significance of such a discovery is that PBIC has a geometrical configuration similar to many biological molecules, and it can be used as a model to study the hydrodynamic and polymer chain configuration of this class of macromolecules."
"In order to characterize the nature and magnitude of molecular interactions in liquids, dielectric relaxation experiments in the microwave region on 2, 2'-bipyridine, 2, 2'-dibromobiphenyl, 4-bromobiphenyl, and anisole have been made. In general, the modes of relaxation for each of these compounds may be separated into processes involving over-all molecular tumbling and those involving internal motions of segments of the molecule."
"According to Mulliken's theory,1 charge-transfer complexes are formed by interaction between molecules acting as electron donors (e.g., aromatic hydrocarbons, dioxan) and other molecules acting as electron acceptors (e.g., quinones, aromatic nitrο-compounds). The formation of charge-transfer complexes is accompanied by the appearance of an ultraviolet absorption which is absent in the spectra of the individual components. The intensity of this characteristic ultraviolet absorption is used to calculate the equilibrium constant in the reaction Donor + Acceptor ⇌ Complex assuming a 1:1 stoichiometry for the complex. The wave function of the complex is written as ψn = aψ0 + bψ1 where ψ0 is the “no-bond” wave function and contains the “classical” inter molecular interactions (e.g., dispersion forces, dipole-induced dipole forces) between donor and acceptor, ψ1 is the “dative-bond” wave function where an electron has been transferred from the donor to the acceptor, and the coefficients a and b determine the relative contributions of the “no-bond” and the “dative-bond” structures. In the ground electronic state of the complex, the “nobond” wave function predominates (a >> b),2 and electrostatic interactions provide the major contribution to the interaction energy between acceptor and donor. The calculated electrostatic energy between trinitrobenzene and benzene at an intermolecular distance of 3.5 Å is 7.6 kJ mole−1, 3 and the observed enthalpy of formation of the complex in carbon tetrachloride is 7.1 kJ mole−1, 4 Complexes between nonpolar components exhibit a finite orientation polarization. 2 Part of this polarization arises from any charge transfer between the donor and acceptor, but contributions from induced dipoles are very significant.5 In the equilibrium Donor + Acceptor ⇌ Complex between a nonpolar donor and a nonpolar acceptor, the formation and subsequent decomposition of the complex provides a relaxation mechanism for the orientation polarization. The relaxation time observed in weak complexes is then a function of the lifetime of the complex. The results describe some dielectric measurements on such weak complexes."
"The component of the dipole moment parallel to the direction of the total angular momentum in the presence of a field and owing to molecular collisions leads to an associated relaxation absorption which was called nonresonant absorption by Birnbaum and versation polarization (Latin versare, to turn) by Maier and Wimmel."
"Since the publication of the systematic work done at the University of Birmingham (England), which stated that the electric strengths of transformer oil1 and pure hydrocarbon liquids2 are dependent on applied hydrostatic pressure over the pressure range of 5 mm Hg to 350 lb/in2 gauge pressure, regardless of the geometry of electrodes used, for liquids with and without gas dissolved, and for voltage ranging from dc, ac, and conventional impulses to rectangular pulses of 1-μsec duration; only a little has been reported in connection with this phenomenon. Recent work has shown that gas bubbles and water globules injected into an electrically stressed liquid dielectric tend to elongate in the direction of the applied field,3,4 and that at fields close to breakdown stress, light emission in n-hexane commences in the cathode region regardless of the geometry of electrode systems used,5,6 and the spectrum of this light extends over a wide range of wavelengths, at least from 1, 850 Å to 8,500 Å, as reported by these authors. All these phenomena seem to be in favor of the bubble theory, which suggests that breakdown is initiated by bubbles formed and subsequently elongated in the liquid, but there is still no direct evidence in support of this theory. In consideration of the fact that time is required for the bubbles to form and to elongate, we have therefore carried out an investigation using linearly rising fields of various rates of rise in order to find a condition in which the pressure-dependence phenomenon of liquids may disappear. Since quantitative results concerning the effect of pressure on the electric strength of gases under linearly rising fields are scarce, the investigation has also been extended to include nitrogen gas. The techniques used and the results obtained so far follow."
"Electromechanical deformation is one of the mechanisms by which dielectric breakdown may be initiated in polymer dielectrics. Recent experimental breakdown results on polymers are readily explained if some form of electromechanical thinning of the specimen before breakdown is postulated. We will present optical evidence in support of a model of highly localized shear deformation before breakdown. Most polymer films undergoing shear deformation will become optically anisotropic in the region under stress. The resulting birefringence can be detected with polarized light. In this way, we have delineated the intensity, extent, and distribution of electromechanical deformation in a polycarbonate-polydimethylsiloxane copolymer."
"In the design of electrical equipment to be operational in dielectric liquids, a knowledge of the effect of impurities (water, solvents), temperature, and pressure on the breakdown of the fluid is needed. The impurities can be introduced through leakage from the outside environment or from degradation and extraction of insulation within the sealed system. The dielectric breakdown of the liquid may be used as a measure of fluid stability. The mechanism of the electrical breakdown of dielectric liquids as given by Krasucki1 is based upon vapor formation in the liquid and is related to the square root of the surface tension, hydrostatic pressure, and dielectric constant, and the radius of the conducting particle. Temperature will also affect breakdown by its influence on the surface tension and dielectric constant. Breakdown is also sensitive to water impurities2,3 that affect surface tension. The water impurity does not affect the refractive index of the oils much, so the water content would affect breakdown mainly through changes in surface energy per unit area of the liquid as an aid to bubble formation. Surface energy per unit area can be calculated4,5 for a pure liquid and requires surface tension versus temperature data (see Figures 6 and 7) where the oils as a first approximation are assumed to be pure fluids."
"The dielectric strength of liquids, particularly with power frequency voltage, has for a long time been recognized as quite variable and greatly influenced by contaminants. The statistical distribution of the breakdown values was elucidated by Weber and Endicott,1 who showed that the distribution of breakdown values fitted the minimum-value statistics. This result implies that the largest defect in the insulating liquid, which contains a distribution of defect sizes, causes the breakdown. There has not, however, been a clear and generally accepted explanation of the nature of the breakdown initiation by these defects, or even of the defects themselves, except to refer to them generally as “particles,” or electrode surface imperfections."
"A stripline method for measuring dielectric constant and loss tangent of sheet insulation, particularly of stripline laminates, offers several advantages for laboratory study and routine quality control of microwave dielectric properties at frequencies above 300 MHz: (1) a stripline test circuit meets the requirement that, since many useful stripline substrates are not dielectrically isotropic, the electric field imposed during test should closely approximate the service condition; (2) in a resonant strip test method the only critical measurements are the length of the resonant strip and the resonant and half-power frequencies, since stripline wavelength is independent of substrate thickness; (3) a stripline test assembly can be designed for special laboratory measurements over a wide frequency range or for rapid high-precision quality-control testing; (4) the test fixture can be readily separated from the measuring equipment by lengths of semirigid coaxial cable to permit determination of pressure, temperature, and other conditioning effects."
"A survey of several materials1 indicated that fluorinated ethylene — propylene copolymer (FEP) is a satisfactory material for standard reference specimens for relative dielectric constant (ε')."
"The identification of the nature of the stable charge carriers in corona discharges in atmospheric gases is of importance in several fields. In electrography, both positive and negative coronas are used as ion generators for electrostatic charging of various photoreceptors as well as other functions that involve electrostatic forces. The mechanism of the interaction of these charged carriers with various surfaces, including the photoconductors, depends primarily on their molecular structure inasmuch as it may influence the ion-electron recombination energy (R. E.) of these species.1 In this work,2–5 the results of mass spectrometric sampling of charge carriers that emerge from both positive and negative corona discharges will be discussed, and the measurements made on various ion-molecule reactions that occur while the primary ionic species traverse the electrode gas will be described. The discharge tube chosen for this study contained coaxial electrodes which ensured stability at a wide range of pressures. With such an electrode geometry, the ionization of gas molecules occurs primarily in the vicinity of the central wire as the electrons gain sufficient energy from the field only at small distances from the wire. Thus, at low currents, the system may be assumed to be similar to a line source for the continuous generation of positiveions. These ions will then move through the gas perpendicular tothe axis, undergoing various interactions with the gas molecules before reaching the cathode, where they are continuously sampled through a small orifice and analyzed by a quadrupole mass spectrometer. A schematic diagram of the apparatus is shown in Figure 1. The quadrupole mass spectrometer used in conjunction with the discharge tube is essentially similar to that described previously.2, 3"
"Insulation systems composed of sulfur hexafluoride and polymer films are now going to be used widely in extra-high-voltage electrical insulation. However, there is little information about the deterioration of both the gas and films in these systems caused by corona discharge. With a view to acquiring this information, the present investigation was made with mass spectrometric analysis of the gas formed by the discharge and measurement of the weight decrease of films exposed to the discharge. It was found that a small amount of oxygen or water in SF6 had a very important effect on the deterioration of both the gas and the films."
"Electrical power requirements are increasing at the rate of 7 percent per year, or doubling every 10 years. Furthermore, transmission voltages have continued to increase — 110, 230, 345, 500 to 765 and possibly 1,000 kV. The aerospace industry has witnessed an even faster growth in postwar years, and more recently the application of pulsed electron beam, flash x-ray, and accelerator technology to high-energy physics, communications, weapons effects simulation, and other areas has developed an explosive need for high-voltage, high-power systems and auxiliary equipment. All this reduces to an ever-increasing demand for flexible selective media which will satisfy diverse insulation and switching requirements. This report describes a preliminary program whose aim was to provide initial evaluation of the feasibility and suitability of using selected fluorocarbons or mixtures of them with other gases as the dielectric media for some of the above applications."
"It is acknowledged that the electric strength of a gas at high pressure is not a well-defined parameter and that virgin electrodes in such a gas need to be conditioned by sparking before a high strength can be realized. Even then, sporadic breakdown of the gas may still occur at very much lower stresses, a fact which, together with conditioning, many authors ignore in discussing the mechanisms of breakdown. These findings, together with the failure of Paschen's law at high pressure, mean that the normally acceptable theories of gas breakdown cannot apply directly at high pressures. It is the purpose of this paper to summarize experiments made to elucidate some of the processes which cause these departures from classical behavior."
"The fracture induced in dielectric materials by corona and spark discharges in gases above atmospheric pressure will be described elsewhere.1 The following morphology was observed: 1. No fracture was observed in materials that have a low coefficient of thermal expansion such as fused quartz and vycor. Also, no fracture was observed in cleavage slices of colemanite — a material that lacks transverse cleavage planes. 2. Craze-cracking and flaking was observed in soda glass and in the crystals fluorite, sodium brornate, and sodium nitrate. 3. Cleavage crack interpénétration was observed in crystals that manifest cubic cleavage."
"Many workers in the field of partial discharges have been concerned with the problem of determining the energy dissipated by discharges. The degradation of insulation is obviously correlated in some way or other with the energy dissipation. Knowledge of this quantity is of great importance to aging tests on materials and insulation systems subject to discharges (see reference 1, part 1)."
"Hydro-Québec is planning an institute of research that will comprise about 250 people when completed. There will be three large units — one general laboratory, ready in 1969; one high-voltage laboratory, ready in 1970; and one high-power laboratory, ready in 1970 to 1971."
"Previous work conducted by G. S. Eager and the present authors on the breakdown of oil-paper insulation in dc cables with polarity reversals revealed the presence of polarization (absorption) phenomena which markedly influenced the breakdown voltages. These polarization phenomena lower the breakdown voltage under polarity reversal aside from the phenomena caused by a difference between the resistive and the capacitive stress distributions in high-voltage dc cables. The polarization (absorption) phenomena in oil-paper insulation are due to different dielectric properties of oil and paper which create a series parallel combination."
"Interest in the dielectric behavior of polymers swollen in liquids has recently been intensified by commercial developments in the areas of capacitors and EHV cables. In such applications very low dielectric losses are required, and these often stem from uncontrolled amounts of unknown impurities in the system. In the work described here, we have attempted to examine the mechanisms and behavior of losses stemming from known amounts of swelling in a model system. We have chosen acetic acid as the swelling agent since it may act as a source of both ionic and dipolar losses. The polymer chosen for investigation was poly(dian carbonate), partly because of the interest in it for practical systems and partly because of the expected interaction via hydrogen bonding with acetic acid. The results reported here are to be considered preliminary as the investigation is still incomplete."
"The role of impurities1,2 in low-loss polymers is poorly understood. Dielectric losses in poly(2,6 dimethyl-1,4-phenylene ether) have been measured at frequencies from 0. 01 Hz to 10 kHz in the temperature range 25°C to 250°C in an attempt to shed further light on this phenomenon."
"Earlier studies of the intrinsic dielectric properties of wire enamels have established that polymeric insulating materials exhibit characteristic 60-Hz dissipation factor-temperature curves. The temperature above which losses rapidly increase was designated as tmax, and the curve from which tmax is established is highly reproducible for a given insulating material at optimum cure.1,2 On the basis of studies in a variety of atmospheres, it has been suggested that tmax is related to a transition temperature for the polymer.3,4"
"This paper presents data on the dielectric properties of living plant material and clay soil. Measurements were made on a variety of specimens at 23°C and over a frequency range from 105 Hz to 4.2 × 109 Hz. These data supplement a variety of studies1 of the effect of trees and earth on electromagnetic radiation."
"The investigations reported here are mainly concerned with studies of the dark and photoenhanced currents in anthracene samples provided with alkali or alkaline-earth metal contacts. Such contacts can inject electrons into anthracene1,2 which are mostly trapped, and photocurrent measurements provide important information on the trap characteristics and on the optical transitions involved in the detrapping process."
"Current-voltage characteristics of insulators are commonly displayed on Schottky plots,1–3 but there exists considerable dispute in the literature as to the correct interpretation of these results.4, 5 In some cases the observed characteristic has been interpreted as due to Schottky emission from the electrode given by I = I0 exp { − [φ − (e3F/ε)1/2]/kT}, (1) where the symbols have their usual meaning. Essentially this means that the dielectric plays no role in the process other than providing a dielectric constant ε in Eq. (1); the process would simply be electrode-controlled. Another explanation offered for the linear Schottky plot has been to ascribe it to the Poole-Frenkel effect (Schottky emission from traps in the dielectric) in which case a factor 4 appears inside the square root sign of Eq. (1). This explanation postulates an essentially bulk-controlled process. Alternatively one can assume that the observed characteristics are both electrode- and bulk-controlled in a way for which there exists, so far, no simple theoretical explanation."
"Transfer of electrical charge between two touching solid bodies is a common electrostatic phenomenon. There is, nevertheless, a controversy about the cause or causes that determine the polarity as well as the amount of charge transferred under given conditions. The controversy stems partially from a scarcity of theoretical work, and partially from an overabundance of experimental work the conclusions of which are debatable because the measured systems were not kept under rigid control or were not sufficiently varied to exclude different conclusions. It is hoped that the recent work by the ASTM on standard methods of testing for electrostatic charge will help to lift the controversy. This paper will describe the instrument as designed for solids, and will give some conclusions based on measurements made with this instrument."
"Contact electrification experiments on insulators have been performed using liquid mercury as a compliant contacting electrode. The experiments show that large amounts of charge can be exchanged between the surfaces; in many cases the charge density is so large that air breakdown occurs when the surfaces are separated. The resulting charge distribution can then be “developed” by electrographic powders. The powder figures formed by developing these charge patterns strongly resemble the well-known Lichtenberg figures reported for discharges over insulators.1, 2"
"The dielectric properties of thin films of NaCl have previously been studied by Weaver1 and Macfarlane and Weaver.2 This work was carried out in a relatively poor vacuum and the films were deposited on amorphous substrates. There is a need to extend the research on alkali halide films deposited under clean ultra-high-vacuum conditions. Also, it would be advantageous to deposit the films on heated single-crystal substrates in the anticipation of producing epitaxial films, and thereby removing any speculation as to the effects of grain boundaries. In fact, Ge provides a suitable substrate, since the lattice constants of NaCl and Ge are exactly matched at 99.4°C."
"The present trend in modern electronic technology toward the use of thin-film circuitry prompted an investigation of irradiation effects in some commonly used dielectric substrate materials. The materials investigated included two types of glass, fused quartz, single-crystal quartz, Pyrex, polycrystalline Al2O3, and single-crystal Al2O3 (sapphire)."
"This paper treats enradient behavior, as opposed to comparisons between preirradiation and post irradiation behavior. Measurements were made under constant-intensity irradiation (about 60 rad/sec 60Co gammas), with current being observed as it responded to changes in the applied electric field. Electric fields were limited to the range below about 50 kv/cm."
"Persistent average frequency shifts obtained from phase data have been consistently observed on a 230-km closed-loop troposcatter circuit when the antennas were synchronously pointed off the great-circle azimuth. The magnitude of the “Doppler shift” systematically increases with the antenna pointing angle from the great circle. The sign of the Doppler shift reverses across the great circle and depends upon the direction of the crosspath wind simultaneously observed in the lower common volume. Average Doppler shift data are presented for several fixed-antenna-offset and antenna-beamswinging experiments conducted under varied meteorological conditions. Observations are interpreted in terms of atmospheric “scatterers” drifting across the path at the average crosspath wind speed. A model based on phase geometry is derived for the average Doppler shift and for Doppler spectra in terms of the crosspath wind velocity, antenna patterns and propagation mechanism. It is concluded that Doppler frequencies observed with a bistatic transhorizon microwave system depend primarily upon crosspath wind speed and the prevailing atmospheric structure. Crosspath motions thus appear to be an effective source of interference fading in tropospheric transhorizon propagation."
"A formula for the admittance of a spherical probe in a warm collisional homogeneous plasma is derived using a step ion sheath with complete electron reflection at the sheath-plasma interface. The resulting equations for the perturbations in sheath voltage and number density at the interface are related to the resonance probe phenomenon. Laboratory measurements displayed the effect of sheath thickness on the resonance probe characteristic. The rigid boundary theory is experimentally shown to break down at sheath collapse, comparing a suitable absorptive boundary theory with the experiment."
"In radio astronomy and other radiometric applications, correlation antenna-receiver systems are used to measure the Fourier transform of the far-field temperature distribution. In this paper, the effect of a finite observation bandwidth upon the measurement of the transform is determined. The noise components in the output of the correlator-antenna system which is observing a distributed source are calculated. The noise power present in the measurement of the real component of the Fourier transform is found to depend on the square of the sum of the integrated temperature distribution and the receiver noise, also upon the square of the real part of the Fourier transform, and the negative of the square of the imaginary part of the Fourier transform. Similar results with appropriate sign changes apply to the imaginary portion of the Fourier transform. The practical restriction on the allowable bandwidth of the correlation receiver is also apparent in these calculations. These values of the signal and noise power can then be used for the optimum processing of the received signal."
"Hydromagnetic wave instabilities excited by an electron or ion beam passing through the magnetospheric plasma are investigated especially for the case when the wave frequency ω and wave number k are small and an excess charge remains in the medium. It is found that the electron excess beam causes instability in the Alfvén mode wave and the positive excess charge beam does so in the modified Alfvén mode wave. The frequency of the instabilities is roughly proportional to the excess charge density and to the ion gyrofrequency. The physical picture of this instability is given in terms of wave-wave interaction. The major morphological features of the pc-5 micropulsation can be interpreted by this instability, if there exists an excess charge beam of electrons or ions in the magnetosphere."
"Techniques for measuring the wave tilt for parallel and perpendicular polarization are reviewed and an extensive bibliography is included. An additional measurement technique is proposed which should be useful for the HF, MF, and LF range, and has potential application in the VLF band. Measurement of the phase difference between the signals induced in crossed dipoles lying in the plane of incidence allows determination of the ground constants."
"Radio wave scattering from field-alined plasma columns is treated for application to the ionospheric irregularities with well-defined structure. A scattering model is introduced in which a sufficient number of homogeneous (cylindrical) plasma columns of the same kind and shape are embedded along the magnetic field in an isotropic scattering medium. Scattering patterns of a cylindrical column of finite length are calculated for oblique incidence. It is shown that the polarization of scattered waves deviates appreciably from the incident one for sufficiently large obliquity, say larger than 30°."
"A theoretical study is made of the propagation of surface waves along an infinite, perfectly conducting plane surface that is coated with a layer of plasma and subjected to an applied d-c magnetic field perpendicular to the layer. The electric and magnetic fields are computed for the separate media and the relations arising from boundary conditions are expressed as transcendental equations. In the limiting case of small plasma layer thickness the fields and propagation constants may be expressed in simple forms. Curves of phase velocity versus plasma thickness are illustrated with different plasma frequencies and cyclotron frequencies. It is found that a backward wave occurs for a certain range of plasma frequencies. The thin slab approximation used in this paper is checked by comparing both exact solution and approximate solution in the case of no applied d-c magnetic field. The error is found to be very small."
"A laboratory simulation experiment was performed to study the mechanism of the detection of audio waves from nearby radio broadcasting stations by spacecraft-borne audio detectors in the ionosphere, where the carrier frequencies of the detected radio stations seem to depend on the altitude of space probes within the ionosphere. Two electrodes were immersed in a low density plasma, and an RF wave amplitude modulated by an audio wave was fed to one of them while the other electrode. was used to detect the audio wave. The detection of the audio wave is a result of the rectification and integration by the sheath around the electrode (antenna), which has a nonlinear voltage-current characteristic. The dependence of the carrier frequency on the altitude is explained as a result of series resonance of an inductive plasma with the sheath capacitance. This is just the same as the ordinary resonance probe and the resonance frequency is slightly smaller than the plasma frequency. For a higher modulation frequency, the audio output has a phase lag caused by the integration by a high plasma and sheath impedance. The audio output has a strong dependence on the potential of the receiving electrode (antenna) with respect to the plasma, and it reverses the polarity at the potential where the second derivative with respect to the voltage of the voltage-current characteristic of the receiving electrode in plasma, is equal to zero. For higher potentials, the amplitude of the audio output shows a large broad maximum, and more than an order of magnitude larger output can be obtained than with the ordinary resonance probe."
"The monthly statistical distribution of foF2 and M(3000)F2, based on 16 years of Washington data, were found to differ significantly from normal. The two-term Gram-Charlier series (Type A) is proposed as a statistical model for the monthly distributions, since it provides a better fit to observed data than the normal distribution."
"Expressions for the electric and magnetic fields within the upper layer of a two-layer conducting earth produced by a long horizontal line source located at the air-earth interface have been derived for the quasi-near range. Ionospheric effects have been neglected. It is assumed that the fields in the horizontal direction vary slowly in a distance of one skin depth in either layer. Under this assumption, the surface impedance concept permits the use of the transmission line analogy for the computation of the field-component expressions. It is demonstrated that the conductivity of the sea bed may be determined by measuring only the horizontal magnetic field at the shallow sea-sea bed interface produced by a long horizontal line source. Some numerical values for the field-component expressions are also provided."
"An expression is derived for the radiation conductance of an axial slot on a dielectric coated metal cylinder, using the work of Wait in conjunction with Parseval's theorem in mode space. The condition for no axial surface waves to exist is stated, and computations for the radiation conductance are then made, for a Teflon dielectric coating of various thicknesses, none of which support axial surface waves. The computations reveal that the radiation conductance increases with both the coating thickness and frequency, for the range of parameters considered."
"Equations are derived for the phase velocity of an electromagnetic groundwave propagating over a plane earth having a constant surface impedance. The equations are found to differ in essence from one previously derived by King and Schlak (1967). As a result of the interpretation made here, it is concluded that the local phase velocity over a highly inductive surface exceeds the velocity of light in free space under certain conditions. For strongly capacitive surfaces, the phase velocity is expected to exceed the velocity in free space at all distances. (At the end of this Note, R. J. King and G. A, Schlak provide a reply to the criticisms. Ed.)"
"The main problem to be resolved here is merely that of terminology. Segal is of course correct in his theory, and his eq (5) is indeed the local or differential phase velocity. We hasten to add, however, that this is not the velocity to which we referred since the phenomenon we discussed has its main application at LF and VLF frequencies where the phase of the signal is continually monitored for navigation purposes. The accumulated phase of the total ground wave ϕ(p) always lags the phase of a corresponding wave propagating in free space, and in this sense, the phase velocity (average) is less than C, the speed of light. From the very definition we used, the result had to yield average velocity of the phase as seen by an observer monitoring the total phase without regard to differential phase changes over small distances. We regret that our conclusions were misinterpreted to imply local or differential phase velocity."
"The problems of tracing rays in the ionosphere for radio propagation, primarily for high frequencies (3 to 30 MHz) and above, are discussed. The limitations on “classical” geometrical optics are described, and their applications to ionospheric problems are indicated. Some “simplified” processes of ray tracing, which apply well at the earth's surface, but not in the ionosphere itself, are first presented. Next, ray-tracing methods which apply in an isotropic ionosphere, when the effects of the earth's magnetic field is negligible, are discussed. The results are then extended to more general cases of an isotropic medium, and, finally, to an anisotropic medium (such as the ionosphere in the presence of the earth's magnetic field). Certain special problems which must be considered in ray-tracing studies are described next; and, finally, a few of the important areas for the application of ray tracing are noted."
"Equations are derived for ray paths in a model ionosphere that has a horizontal gradient in electron density. The basic vertical profile is second order or parabolic, while the horizontal variation is either linear or parabolic. Group and phase-path expressions are also derived. The equations have been used successfully in a ray-tracing approach to HF propagation prediction."
"Typical measurements of the electron density in the various regions of the ionosphere are reviewed and the current availability of predictions based on these measurements is discussed. A method is suggested to combine regular ionospheric predictions such as f0F2 and f0E with estimates of electron density in the lower ionosphere and with empirical expressions for the electron density in the upper ionosphere to obtain a first approximation to the electron density versus height profile for the quiet ionosphere. Sample profile predictions based on regular ionospheric predictions are shown for ionospheric heights of most importance in the design and operation of high-frequency communication systems."
"An improvement on numerical integration of Yabroff's ray-tracing equations is suggested wherein at each step the refractive-index vector is corrected in both magnitude and direction."
"A ray-tracing program especially suited to propagation at nearly vertical incidence has been developed and used to synthesize sweep-frequency ionograms for a severely perturbed ionosphere. The actual disturbance was produced by the release of 22 kg of SF6 near the F 2 peak as one of a series of chemical releases from rockets. For the ray-tracing study, the observed unperturbed electron-density distribution was modified by a four-parameter reduction function to simulate the disturbed region. By varying the parameters to obtain agreement between observed and calculated ionograms, the temporal and spatial progress of such an electron-deficient region may be investigated. Typical ray paths, calculated without the geomagnetic field, are illustrated and the resulting synthesis is shown to agree qualitatively with the perturbation echoes observed on ionograms obtained after the SF6 release."
"A two-dimensional formulation based on Fermat's principle is used to compute electromagnetic rays in the ionosphere in geocentric polar coordinates. The geomagnetic field and electron collisions are omitted. Digital and analogue computers are used. The accuracy of the digital program is sufficient to compute frequency deviations due to ionospheric disturbances by a direct method."
"A two-dimensional Snell's law digital computer ray-tracing program is used to simulate the effects of large traveling ionospheric disturbances on oblique-incidence HF radio transmissions. Two path lengths are considered: 452 km and 3000 km. The phase path, group path, received elevation angle-of-arrival and Doppler-shift variations produced by the passage of representative disturbance models through the transmission paths are calculated. The relationship between the measured variations and certain disturbance parameters is discussed. Comparisons between the simulated results and experimental data appearing elsewhere in the literature are made."
"Oblique sweep-frequency ionospheric sounding experiments indicate that the propagation is affected by a horizontal variation of the electron density. To gain insight into the importance of these effects, ray-tracing experiments were carried out. Examples show the influence of the horizontal variation of the electron density. Variations of the critical frequency as well as variations of the layer height are considered."
"To investigate the influence of the earth's magnetic field on ionospheric propagation, P'(f) curves were calculated by means of a ray-tracing program. The calculations were made for a path length of 2000 km. The geomagnetic latitude of the midpoint of the path and the angle between the magnetic meridian and the path are varied in steps of 15°. Corrections to the no-field MUF, as functions of the above parameters, are obtained."
"Digital-computer techniques have been used to synthesize ground-backscatter records for model daytime ionospheres containing irregularities at known distances. By assuming irregularity motion at constant height and speed, approximate synthetic range-time records are obtained. Two different methods of synthesis are described and compared. Apparent velocities of irregularity movement are derived from the slopes of the ripples on the range-time records for various operating frequencies. For operating frequencies supporting F-layer propagation, there appears to be little frequency-dependence of apparent velocity when the irregularity is near reflection heights; but when the irregularity is lowered to heights near the E layer, a strong frequency-dependence of velocity develops."
"The equation of the parabolic ionosphere model is modified in a manner which introduces very slight changes in the electron-density distribution. Using this new “quasi-parabolic” (or QP) model, it is possible to derive exact expressions describing radio-ray trajectories without introducing the approximations which are needed when dealing with the parabolic ionosphere, although magnetoionic effects are not included. The consequent accuracy of computed rays is useful as an aid in evaluating the accuracy of more versatile ray-calculation methods. Also, the exact ray expressions can be of direct use in calculating slight differences between rays which are nearly identical, for in this process, small inaccuracies can become magnified."
"Exact ray solutions are helpful in determining the accuracy of general purpose ray-tracing techniques. In this paper such solutions are presented for range, group path, phase path and reflection height of radio rays entering the ionospheric layer from the bottom and from the top. The ionospheric model used to produce the exact solutions is a function which allows closed-form integration of the ray parameter expressions. In this ionosphere, first introduced by Muldrew, electron density is almost a linear function of height, but it does not vary in the horizontal direction. The earth's magnetic field and electron collisions are neglected but curved earth-ionosphere geometry is included."
"A set of formulas is derived giving exact expressions for group paths and ground distances to the impact points for rays propagated in an ionosphere eccentric to the earth. The eccentricity is measured in terms of a displacement, D, between the center of curvature and the center of the earth. Curves displaying layer tilts and layer height variations as functions of D are presented. Some sample results obtained with a “quasi-parabolic” electron density model are given."
"An algorithm is described for machine computation of the height of a ray originating at or near the earth's surface, when the initial elevation angle and the ray-path length (as measured, for example, by a radar-antenna elevation angle and the echo signal delay time) are given, and the refractive-index profile is specified as a continuous but nonlinear function of the height. The numerical precision of the result is limited only by the number of digits carried in the computation, although faster computation is achieved with reduced precision. The computing time is less than Is for six significant figures using the CDC-3800 computer. The equations used (which include those for the ground range, true geometric range, and true elevation angle) have been manipulated to avoid formulations that destroy computational precision. The method requires that the refractive index be spherically symmetric with respect to the earth's center and that the height profile be representable as a piecewise continuous function. In the work described, a negative-exponential profile was assumed. Two algorithms for higher speed computation with reduced precision, suitable for radar-target height calculation, are also described."
"ESSA Technical Report, IER-17/ITSA-17 (Jones, 1966), is the documentation of an accurate, versatile computer program which computes ray paths through a medium whose index of refraction varies in three dimensions. The program is written in CDC 3600 FORTRAN, which is similar to IBM FORTRAN IV. The program was developed to trace radio rays through the ionosphere, but could be converted to other applications by substituting an appropriate index-of-refraction subroutine."
"A three-dimensional ray-trace program developed by ITSA, Boulder, Colorado is compared for range accuracy with theoretically calculated values of range. Ray tracings were made through two quasi-parabolic ionospheres of different heights and thicknesses with no magnetic field or electronic collisions involved. For the case where the maximum allowable single step error was a minimum (corresponding to longer computer running time), the maximum range error encountered was 26.3 km at a zero-degree launch angle. However, for launch angles equal to or greater than 0.5°, the typical range errors were less than 1.0 km."
"A theoretical determination of the path loss in radio propagation through jungle is obtained by considering the jungle as a homogeneous conducting dielectric slab on a flat earth. An exact integral is obtained for the vertical component of the electric field within the jungle due to a vertical electric dipole within the jungle. An analytic evaluation of the integral leads to an approximate expression for the field and an estimate of the error. When this accuracy is insufficient, a numerical evaluation of the integral is performed. The combination of analytic and numerical techniques leads to the evaluation of the electric field and thereby path loss to any accuracy desired. Experimental measurements of path loss in a Thailand jungle are compared with the calculations. The results agree within a standard deviation of 6 dB when the jungle conductivity is taken as 0.15 mmho/m."
"Experiments have been carried out in order to measure the spatial and temporal nature of amplitude fluctuations observed on a 35 GHz, 28-km line-of-sight transmission path. The fluctuations are typically 1 dB in amplitude, with spectral widths of up to 1 Hz, and apparently drift horizontally past the several receiving antennas. The velocity of this drift, as determined by cross-correlation analysis of the fluctuations at several points, correlates well with the spectral width of the fluctuations, and is also correlated with observed windspeeds, indicating that the observed drift of the amplitude fluctuations is the result of the gross motions of the atmosphere. No corresponding drift was observed for vertical antenna separation. The spatial scale length of the fluctuations remained approximately the same for all conditions encountered, in both the horizontal and vertical planes. It is concluded that the temporal characteristics of the received signal are largely the result of the horizontal drift of a relatively fixed spatial distribution of amplitude, rather than of temporal changes in this distribution."
"The vector Kirchhoff equations are derived by the systematic use of the free-space dyadic Green's function and the appropriate Green's theorem. As is generally the case, the derivation is valid only if the surfaces over which the integrations are to be performed are closed surfaces or infinite surfaces that can be closed at infinity. The approximations used in conjunction with Kirchhoff's equations can lead to integrations over portions of the closed surfaces and these portions are open surfaces. When the approximations are discontinuous and the resulting integrations are over open surfaces, the Kirchhoff equations derived in this paper intrinsically include the boundary-line charge contributions. It is not necessary to addend integrals to equations resulting from a mathematical analysis of Maxwell's equations in order to include the boundary-line charge contributions."
"Extensive model studies have been carried out in the past to investigate the effects of ionospheric perturbations on VLF radio propagation in the earth-ionosphere waveguide. In these model studies the surface of the earth is considered flat and the ionosphere is characterized by a finite surface impedance of variable effective height. However, the restrictions for the flat-earth model are not satisfied for modes of near-grazing incidence. As shown before by Wait, a planar structure that supports the desired modes may be constructed simply by modifying the medium of propagation in the straight rectangular dual-model waveguide. As a result of including the earth's curvature in the model, the analysis yields an explanation for the relatively large undulations in the electric field observed at the surface of the earth. The larger undulations in the “curved” model are a result of both the modification of the characteristic functions and a larger scattering coefficient."
"A technique of using the driving-point impedance of an electric antenna in the ionosphere to diagnose the ionospheric plasma is presented. Specifically, the locations of the resonances in the driving-point impedance of a center-fed cylindrical electric dipole imbedded in the ionosphere are analyzed. The ionospheric model is a lossy, anisotropic, homogeneous neutral plasma containing various ionic constituents. It is found that there are zeros in the reactance at the upper and lower hybrid frequencies and poles at the electron and ion gyrofrequencies. These critical frequencies are independent of antenna length and orientation (parallel or perpendicular to the earth's magnetic field) to the firstorder approximation. It is shown that pole-zero frequencies could be used to determine the earth's magnetic field strength, electron density, and ion masses- and densities at any point in the ionosphere at which the impedance was measured. Consequently, this technique offers the possibility of measuring several ionospheric plasma characteristics with one instrument aboard rockets and satellites."
"Modem methods of calculating the electron density distribution from virtual heights include joint use of both magnetoionic components since, in certain ranges, one component alone does not provide sufficient information to obtain a unique solution of the integral equation involved. Experience shows, however, that joint use of both components does not always give satisfactory results. We therefore consider in this paper whether sufficient information is provided by two components, used together, to remove ambiguities in the problem. A solution formula is first developed for each component, in a form similar to the Abel (1823) solution valid for an isotropic ionosphere. Application of these generalized solution formulas to each component and a combination of the two resulting expressions leads to a new integral equation in which only the distribution of the underlying ionization or the distribution in the valley between two layers is involved. Consideration of this new integral equation leads to the result that in general only a first- or second-order approximation to the distribution in those parts can be obtained."
"Radiation from a circular-slot antenna in a warm plasma is treated as a boundary-value problem. The slot is excited symmetrically by a coaxial waveguide which has an infinite flange. The waveguide aperture and the flange are separated from the plasma by a dielectric coating. An exact formulation is given for the fields produced in the plasma region in terms of the aperture field at the open end of the waveguide. An asymptotic evaluation of the integrals shows that, in addition to space wave radiation, a surface wave is excited by virtue of the finite temperature of the plasma. Also, waveguide-type modes in the dielectric layer are excited and they are attenuated even in the absence of ohmic or collision losses. Finally, a variational formula is obtained for the terminal admittance of the coaxial line."
"The radiation patterns of antennas in the presence of plasma media may exhibit large narrow beams that are due to leakage of trapped energy. The nature of these beams is discussed, and such characteristics as spatial dependence, magnitude, and power content are determined."
"The electromagnetic field of an oscillating magnetic dipole is calculated, assuming that the dipole is immersed in a cold, streaming plasma. The amplitude of the magnetic dipole moment is assumed to be sufficiently weak that the linearized cold-plasma equations may be used to describe the response of the plasma. The resulting field of the dipole is rather different from the field that would result if the plasma were not streaming. In particular, a longitudinal electrostatic field appears as a consequence of the plasma's motion. The far field of the dipole is such that the Poynting vector is not purely radial, but is tilted against the direction of the zeroth-order plasma flow. An outward flow of mechanical energy is associated with the electrostatic field. However the mechanical energy flow is negligible for streaming velocities small compared with the velocity of light. The force necessary to hold the dipole in place is also calculated. This force vanishes when the dipole axis is parallel to the streaming direction, as does the longitudinal electric field."
"A comparison is made between papers of Kornhauser and Yaghjian (1967) and Gazarian (1957). The two are found to cover many similar aspects of the same problem. Rays and caustics not considered m the above two papers are found and are plotted for some typical parameters."
"The electric and magnetic field components near an elevated horizontal line source are derived and compared with the components calculated from image theory. When the measurement distance is much less than an earth skin depth, the results obtained by image theory are in good agreement with the author's derivations."
"A tabulation of relative dielectric constant and loss tangent is presented for a number of common materials. Measurements were made by using an interference spectrometer to measure insertion loss and phase shift of dielectric samples."
"Let a plane electromagnetic wave of wavelength λ be incident in free space at an angle of incidence i upon a medium that is stratified in horizontal planes. Let the squared complex refractive index be an analytic function of height, and consider height as a complex variable. By sliding the contour map of the analytic function parallel to the imaginary height axis a family of refractive index profiles is obtained along the real height axis. Let one member of the family correspond to a nonabsorbing medium, and let another typical member of the family be obtained by displacing the contour map of the analytic function a distance b in the direction of the negative imaginary height axis. Then the amplitude reflection coefficient of the stratified medium is exp $\\left(-\\frac{4\\pi b}{\\lambda} \\cos i\\right)$, and the phase change on reflection is independent of b. This is true regardless of the precise form of the analytic function specifying the refractive index profiles. A function with singularities may be used, provided that the range of b is restricted to use only a region of the complex plane where the function is analytic."
"A study has been made of the whistler precursor events that have been observed at the “Whistlers-East” network of Dartmouth College in the period from ICY through IQSY. The results confirm the earlier reports that precursors are associated only with two-hop whistlers. Other results are presented to illustrate some of the common features of precursor events, such as the absence of one-hop hybrid components, the relatively high intensity of precursors, and the repeatability of the patterns of precursor events over time periods as long as a day. It is concluded that while the exact nature of the mechanism of precursor generation is not yet clear, we are probably dealing with triggering involving an instability process in a fairly limited region of space. The mechanism must, however, differ in some significant respect from the type of forward-triggering that has been discussed in some detail in the literature."
"The cylindrical waveguide problem with a diffuse, anisotropic upper boundary is rigorously formulated using a conformal transformation. This will allow us to demonstrate the adequacy of an ad hoc method used in a previous paper for simultaneously treating earth curvature and ionospheric effects. Weakly attenuated components of the mode spectrum associated with easterly propagation below a highly anisotropic ionosphere are developed numerically in the frequency range from 10–30 kHz. Also, the field strength distributions in the guide are presented. It is shown that modes of the earth detached variety, unlike the usual quasi-TM or quasi-TE modes, can contain comparable amounts of vertical and horizontal polarization. The numerical results also suggest that at the high end of the frequency spectrum considered, modes which are principally TE may be of importance in the mode sum."
"A study is made of guidance of waves along an inhomogeneous field-alined plasma stratum. A time invariant model of the ionosphere imbedded in the earth's dipole field is postulated. Along the lines of flux of the earth's magnetic field bell shaped plasma strata are alined. The theory presented here is based on the mode of theory of propagation in an inhomogeneous medium and is modified to account for anisotrophy. The two-dimensional problem is reduced to a one-dimensional integral equation, the modal condition, by using Booker's q parameter. The numerical results are calculated for the locked modes only, although the theory is capable of handling the leaky modes as well. The numerical results indicate the existence of total guidance between the conjugate points for some frequencies, but only partial guidance for other frequencies."
"An extension of an earlier treatment to the case of a surface superrefractive layer is presented. An essentially exact solution for the eigenvalues is obtained, and graphical results obtained from a computer are presented. The enhanced effect of a shallow superrefractive layer at shorter wavelengths is illustrated. The solution for the case of a surface duct will be presented in a later article."
"Time-harmonic analyses are presented for the excitation of a dielectric slab and for the excitation of an isotropic, incompressible, plasma slab by means of a parallel-plate waveguide with one plate truncated. Both TE and TM polarizations are considered in these open-region problems. The principal contribution of the paper is the development of a procedure for factoring the function of a complex variable which appears in the formulation of each of these Wiener-Hopf type boundary value problems. The technique obtains the factorization for the open-region problem by a limiting procedure on a function and its factorization associated with a related closed-region problem. The latter factorization is usually trivial. The technique is quite general and should find application to a wide range of Wiener-Hopf problems involving open regions. Details of the investigation including the results of numerical computations are presented for the excitation problems. These include the average power reflected in the waveguide, radiated in the space wave, and transmitted by the surface waves. The radiation pattern of the space wave is also given."
"The solution of Maxwell's equations for the idealized sheet of spiral antennas has been extended to a cos nϕ input excitation. At large distances the current density is the combination of a circularly polarized surface wave that vanes as exp(−jnϕ) and the frequency independent current distribution previously worked out. The frequency independent component is almost entirely in the exp(jnϕ) mode. Half the input power goes into the exp(jnϕ) radiation pattern, and almost half goes into the surface wave. This explains the remarkable mode selection properties of multielement spiral antennas that were observed a few years ago."
"Plane-wave solutions in a permittivity-modulated dielectric slab, bordering on each side on an infinite half-space of constant permittivity, are found both analytically and numerically. The permittivity modulation assumed, namely ∊(t) = ∊/(1 − 2p cos 2 Ωt), permits expressing the time dependence of the waves in terms of Mathieu functions and deriving the wave characteristics from the known properties of Mathieu functions. Exponentially growing waves may be spontaneously generated in the slab if the modulation index 2p and the slab width are sufficiently large. In the analytical approach, existence of increasing waves and their rate of growth is determined by attempting to attain field continuity at the interfaces by a superposition of Mathieu functions. For the case when the modulation index and the slab width are too small to support growing waves, a method is sketched for calculating the complete frequency spectrum of the response of the slab to a normally incident plane wave. The numerical approach involves use of partial difference equations and matching their solutions at the interfaces. Good agreement between analytical and numerical field solutions is demonstrated."
"Distributions of the log-amplitude and phase fluctuations of a Gaussian light beam propagating through a randomly inhomogeneous medium are studied by the evaluation of their mean square values. By means of the adequate focusing system (the optical transmitting antenna) of an aperture size large compared with the medium turbulence scale, log-amplitude fluctuations are greatly reduced slightly behind the focal point of the focusing system. The reduced fluctuation is strongly dependent upon the focal length, when the focal length is short."
"The relativistic magnetoionic theory for drifting plasma for arbitrary directions and large drift velocities is discussed and the general refractive index equation for the relativistic case is derived by using Lorentz transformation of the Booker quartic equation. Particular cases tire found to agree with previous results."
"The energy leaving an antenna is considered as a series of rays reflected to a distant antenna. Each ray forms many reflected rays at each layer and invariant imbedding is used to study those rays of interest (i.e., rays forming a triangular zone connecting the antennas) and all others are considered lost. The modified reflection coefficient differs by several dB in some cases from the conventional plane-wave reflection coefficient."
"A waveguide phase shifter has been designed which is capable of providing extremely small, accurately controlled phase shifts. Three prototypes have been constructed and operate as predicted."
"The electromagneto-plasma-gas-dynamics equations for small signal theory are summarized for the warm, isotropic, drifting electron gas plasma, by using tensor notation. Taking oblique plasma wave propagation, we derive a determinants! equation for the corresponding refractive index. This is an extension for oblique incidence of a previous paper (Unz, 1966)."
"Two simple methods for estimating LF and VLF reflection loss are devised, and the procedures for applying the methods are described. The first'method involves estimating the actual height of reflection, fitting an exponential profile at this height, using the wave theory answer for the fitted exponential profile, and, if necessary, applying a correction for departure from the fitted exponential profile well below the level of reflection. The second method integrates the nondeviating region attenuation coefficient up to a level chosen, using wave theory, to give the right answer when the profile near the level of reflection is exponential. For practical evaluations of LF and VLF transmission loss in nuclear burst environments involving highly oblique reflections in the lower D region, the methods presented can be applied with adequate accuracy for transmission frequencies at least as low as 10 kHz."
"The mode analysis of ELF and VLF waves has been generalized to allow arbitrary directions of propagation below a curved stratified ionosphere with a dipping static magnetic field. In the ELF range, the propagation parameters are changed almost linearly with the azimuthal angle ϕ by varying the direction of propagation from east to west. In the VLF range, the phase velocity exhibits its maximum value for propagation in south-and-north direction; and minimum values occur for propagation toward west. Also, maximum attenuation rates occur for propagation toward the west. Measured interference distances D of the two lowest waveguide modes are explained using nighttime ionosphere models that exhibit sharp density gradients in the height range from 80 to 85 km."
"A multistep model is used to simulate the transition between the day and night portions of the earth-ionosphere waveguide. A convenient simplification is the justified neglect of all reflected modes. On the other hand, forward mode conversion (and reconversion) is accounted for. The analytical method involves the multiplication of square matrices which correspond individually to the conversion at the various steps. The calculations are carried through for a sharply bounded ionosphere and a perfectly conducting ground. Earth curvature is allowed for but the influence of the earth's magnetic field is neglected. A calculated example for 20 kHz indicates that the transition length Δd between day and night influences the amount of mode conversion."
"A closed, general solution for the reflection coefficient matrix of a sharply bounded, anisotropic, homogeneous ionosphere is presented. A coordinate system used by Budden is introduced that leads to simplified boundary condition equations. In this system the solution for the general case reduces to one similar to that obtained by Crombie for the special case of propagation from east to west, or west to east. A solution to the quartic equation is given which simplifies the computation."
"A high frequency radio direction-finding experiment involving a transmitter near Houston, Texas and a receiver near Urbana, Illinois has been under progress on a continuous basis for 1 week per month since March 1967. A network of five vertical incidence ionosondes located near and around the midpoint of the great circle path permit the evaluation of electron density gradients along the propagation path from true height analysis of ionograms recorded by this network. These gradients are used in conjunction with a three-dimensional ray-tracing computer program to compute the expected directions of arrival of the radio waves. Changes in bearing resulting from temporal variations in the electron density distribution and seasonal variations in the sunrise tilts are investigated. The results obtained by ray tracing are found to be in excellent agreement with the measured bearing deviations. Effective layer tilts are computed from the results of ray tracing."
"An expression is derived for the external admittance of an axial slot cut in an infinitely long metal cylinder that is concentrically coated with a homogeneous dielectric of relative dielectric constant ∊r. The derivation is based on the mode expansion technique of Wait, in conjunction with Parseval's theorem. Determination of the axial surface waves that can be excited by this slot is also obtained. Additionally, azimuthal surface waves are discussed. Complete expressions in normalized form, ready to be computed, for the external conductance and susceptance of the slot are given for an ordinary dielectric coating (∊r ≥ 1), a plasma coating (0 ≤ ∊r ≥ 1), and no coating."
"This paper is concerned with the excitation of electromagnetic (optical) and pressure (acoustical) creeping waves on an infinite perfectly conducting circular cylinder immersed in a compressible plasma. The problem is virtually the same as that treated by Wait (1965). However, the formulation is different from Wait's and lends itself more readily to a ray-optical interpretation (via asymptotic analysis), thereby emphasizing the coupling mechanism between the optical and acoustic fields."
"Mathematical solutions of the wave equation in turbulent dielectrics are based upon the use of a “locally defined” permittivity ∊(r). However, in a random medium this definition is ambiguous except in the limit ℓ ≫ λ where ℓ is the scale of the turbulence. The difficulty is resolved by using a method in which the effective permittivity is determined in a manner related to the derivation of the Lorentz-Lorenz formula for uniform gases. It is found that an additional term exists for the effective permittivity which has not been included in previous results. For λ ≫ ℓ, the presence of this term effectively modifies the formulas that describe the propagation of coherent waves in turbulent dielectrics."
"Many electromagnetic boundary value problems can be put in the form y = Kx, where K is a scattering operator, y is a vector or function proportional to the incident held, and x represents the scattered held. A useful and common solution to these problems is obtained by approximating K by an Nth order degenerate operator so that y = KNxN. A number of authors formulated upper bounds to the error ||x — xN|| that are essentially equivalent, but which we found to be unnecessarily restrictive. A reformulation of the problem leads to a solution in terms of a Neumann series involving the difference operator K — KN, with the range of. KN properly extended to the range of K. This approach is found to yield, with much less restrictive conditions, close error estimates as opposed to bounds. In fact, for some otherwise intractable scattering problems, this formulation converges so rapidly for N = 1 that an essentially closed form approximate solution may be written. Other salient features axe also discussed together with examples and new physical results for a diverse class of boundary value problems including analysis of coaxial TE11 discontinuities and dielectric covered phased arrays."
"When atmospheric refractive index is observed by measuring the index differences between two points, a filtering action is introduced in the fluctuation spectra. A filter function is obtained when the refractive index difference spectra frequency component is divided by the corresponding frequency component of the index spectra for a single-point data. Test results of this filter function are compared with theoretical models. The measured filter functions for 12 data samples obtained with four refractometers on top of an 85-m tower, are presented. These 12 cases are arranged in the order of increasing wind variability; that is, of increasing ratio of rms wind-speed variation to the mean-wind speed. The measured data are compared with theoretical filter functions derived assuming a “frozen-atmosphere” model; a statistically homogeneous and isotropic invariant structure being assumed to be carried along at the mean-wind velocity. A single mean-wind velocity is assumed for those periods for which the measured wind data indicate a nearly constant flow. For more variable situations an integration over a range of mean-wind speeds and wind directions is performed. Though there are numerous marked differences between the measured and calculated filter functions (as would be expected whenever a crude model is used to predict results for a truly complex situation), the model assumed does provide satisfactory explanations for many of the observed features. An unexplained anomaly, which appears in the measured filter function for many of the cases, is that at the high-frequency end, the functions are lower than predicted."
"We propose a method for analyzing the scattering of spherical waves by an arbitrarily shaped, perfectly conducting scatterer in relative motion with respect to the source and observation points. To treat this problem more rigorously, we use relativistic notation. Since the scatterer is arbitrarily shaped (the surface is assumed convex and closed), physical-optics currents are assumed. These currents are found by transforming the incident field to the moving frame of the scatterer using the Lorentz transformation. The scattered field is derived in the scatterer's frame using the method of stationary phase. The scattered field is then transformed to the frame containing the source of the incident field. A method for finding the geometrical optics scattered field is derived. By-products of the approach yield: (1) the angular frequency of the incident wave in the scatterer's frame, (2) a technique for finding the stationary phase points, and (3) a formula for calculating the frequency of the scattered field in the observer's frame."
"The representation of the source of the electromagnetic fields for a thin-walled tubular transmitting antenna is examined. Application of a standard formula for the electromagnetic field leads to the concept of a magnetic current source. With this type of source, the correct integral equation for the tubular antenna is easily derived because the standard vector potential method (with an extra term for the potential due to the magnetic current) can be used. The method is easily applied to other excitation geometries."
"It is questioned whether differences in the method used to derive the integral equation for the current in a tubular antenna are of great importance."
"An examination and review of various theories for scattering from surfaces with different roughness scales has appeared in a recent report by Barrick and Peake. This note briefly summarizes the report by presenting some of the more important results contained therein."
"Field expressions for a horizontal electric dipole buried in a three-layer earth are derived with techniques developed for a two-layer earth. Parameters include the radio frequency, upper- and lower-layer depths, and the relative dielectric constant and conductivity or loss tangent of each layer. Analogies between multisection transmission lines and multilayer earth are discussed."
"A laboratory experiment has been conducted that demonstrates the applicability of radar interferometry to the measurement of the width of a turbulent plasma column. This is done by inferring the spatial distribution of the incoherent electromagnetic power backscattered from the column. The measurements of the spatial correlation of the backscattered electromagnetic fields are in good agreement with a function derived theoretically by using extensive diagnostic data."
"No abstract is available."
"In table 1, page 1308, the number 1.39 should be 1.68; the number 1.05 should be 1.35. On page 1311, line 4 from the bottom, the expression in parentheses, viz., (with Yii corrected from fig. 4), should be deleted. The effect of the corrections was sufficiently small to be negligible."
"Equation 5, page 77, where there are two occurrences of the expression (rb/r0)2; in both cases, the correct expression should be (r0/rb)2."
"No abstract is available."
"Expressions are derived for the exact computation of bearing deviation and other high frequency radio ray-path parameters in a model ionosphere with no magnetic field, but with electron density varying in three dimensions. The three-dimensional variation is simulated by assuming a spherically symmetric ionospheric model, but with its center of curvature displaced from the center of the earth and by launching the ray out of the plane containing the transmitter and the two centers of curvature. Some numerical results for the ray-path parameters are presented for the quasi-parabolic and quasilinear models. Applications of the exact solutions are considered in a companion paper."
"This paper deals with two applications of the exact computations of the ray-path parameters and in particular, the bearing deviations for an eccentric model ionosphere with no magnetic field derived in a companion paper. These are (a) evaluation of the ITSA three-dimensional ray-tracing computer program and (b) investigation of direction-of-arrival observations of HF radio waves. In both cases, very good agreement has been found between the two sets of results."
"A phenomenological theory for the nonlinear demodulation of an amplitude modulated wave propagating in a plasma has been developed. In contrast to the earlier work, this theory is not restricted to the cases when the frequency of modulation is much more or less than d(d ∼ 2m/M) times the electron collision frequency. It is found that for normal operating parameters the demodulation may be significant and that it increases with decrease in electron density, modulation frequency, and initial modulation index of the propagating wave."
"An analysis of linear antenna arrays containing phase errors described by a random martingale sequence is presented. The case is representative of the popular class of linear arrays of the end-fed, traveling wave type. The expectation of the Fraunhofer power response is derived. A computer experiment is performed that shows the principal effect of the phase error is upon side-lobe response. The complete probability distribution in the side-lobe region is derived through the central limit theorem, which is found to apply for phase errors small enough in spite of the correlation among members of the martingale. The distribution is verified by comparison with points from the computer experiment. The results are used to relate manufacturing tolerances to side-lobe deterioration."
"A relativistically correct expression for the far zone electromagnetic field scattered by a perfectly conducting sphere, moving with constant velocity, through an incident plane wave is developed. It is seen that if the scattered field is expressed in a special “retarded” coordinate system, a result that is more tractible, allowing physical interpretation, is obtained. When the field is expressed in this way, the expected first-order effects are manifest, yet the higher order effects are also present. This solution may be directly applied to the finite bodies with more complicated shapes than the sphere. For the case of the sphere it is found that the form of the scattered field allows the calculation of the scattering cross section, the total scattering cross section, and the rate of exchange of electromagnetic and mechanical energies."
"The scattering of electromagnetic waves from a slightly rough surface moving with uniform velocity is investigated. Rice's generalization of Rayleigh's expansion for the scattered fields and Lorentz transformation are used to relate the fields in the moving and stationary reference frames. In the development we also use the principle of phase invariance and the covariance nature of the electromagnetic fields."
"A method for improving the accuracy of approximate numerical solutions of doubly infinite sets of simultaneous linear algebraic equations is presented. The method is based on using prior information about the asymptotic behavior of the solution to anticipate the dominant contribution of the terms beyond the truncation limit imposed by the restriction of numerical solutions to finite matrix equations. Such information is shown to be available for the sets of equations which are frequently used in electromagnetic boundary value problems. The advantages and disadvantages of this method are discussed and then illustrated via results for the well-known problem of scattering from a planar grating."
"An analysis is given for hybrid, TM, and TE surface-wave modes in coaxial cables with homogeneous dielectric linings on either or both conductors. The characteristic, equations and expressions for the group velocity are derived using the field components in the loss-free cases. A perturbation technique is then used to derive expressions for the attenuation coefficients of all slow-wave modes. For the dominant mode, these are shown to reduce to expressions which can be obtained by a quasi-TEM approach."
"An analysis of the current on an infinite cylindrical dipole antenna immersed in a lossy plasma medium that may, in the general case, be both compressible and anisotropic, is discussed. The antenna current, for the isotropic, incompressible plasma with no sheath present is evanescent along the antenna axis for frequencies (f) less than the electron plasma frequency (fp). When f > fp, the current is axially propagating with a wave number whose real component Kzr is given by KE0 $\\sqrt{1-{f_{p}^{2}}/f^2}$, where KE0 is the free-space electromagnetic wave number. Addition of a static magnetic field parallel to the antenna axis opens up a region of propagating antenna current below the electron cyclotron frequency (fh,) with Kzr ≈ KE0 $\\sqrt{1-{f_{p}^{2}}/{f^{2}-({f_{h}^{2}}})}$, so that the region of evanescent current is reduced to fh < f < ft = $\\sqrt{{f_{p}^{2}}+{f_{h}^{2}}}$. A further decrease in the region of evanescent current behavior to approximately (fh + 9ft)/10 < f < ft is effected by plasma compressibility or a vacuum sheath. At the same time, the value of $K_{\\widetilde{z\\tau}}$ in the latter case may exceed Keo by two or three orders of magnitude in the range (fh + ft)/2 $\\lesssim$ f < ft so that the electrical wavelength of a finite antenna in the plasma would be a more sensitive function of frequency than for the free-space medium."
"Some calculated results are given for influence of a knife-edge obstacle on radio propagation over a curved surface. A special case, of a previous formulation, is employed for the calculations. It is shown that the effect of the obstacle is strongly dependent on the location relative to the path terminals. This note is an addendum to the paper “Diffraction and scattering of the electromagnetic ground wave by terrain features”, Radio Sci. 3 (New Series), No. 10, 1968."
"No abstract is available."
"No abstract is available."
"No abstract is available."
"No abstract is available."
"Calculations and experiments have shown that some fraction of an electron stream incident on a gas is scattered in the backward direction. Applied to the aurora we find that about 15 to 20 percent of the electron flux returns up the field lines. These electrons are transferred to the conjugate region via the lines of force, if these are continuous between hemispheres. Losses are negligible, but a small drift in longitude may be expected. The energy spectrum of the electrons becomes softer; however, a close correspondence in occurrence of aurora must prevail. Absence of aurora would be a clear indication that the phenomenon is not associated with closed magnetic shells. A minor effect on the spectral character of the electrons scattered into the conjugate area is found, which could be associated with a difference in the model atmosphere and ionosphere."
"Auroral brightness fluctuations have been studied visually and photoelectrically for some time. In 1961, Campbell and Rees reviewed the information then available and drew attention to the distinct characteristics of the phenomenon. In this paper the work since that time is reviewed, with particular emphasis on the power spectral densities of the fluctuation records. The existence of distinct peaks in these spectra is noteworthy. New data are presented that show the importance of the coherency spectrum and the large spatial extent of the fluctuations. No systematic motions of the fluctuating region are found. Evidence that the fluctuation peaks result from an increased energy per particle, rather than an increased particle flux, is reviewed and discussed. Possible types of mechanisms are summarized briefly."
"After a brief review of the current knowledge of ionospheric F2 conjugate behavior in low latitudes, temporal variations of foF2 at several low-latitude conjugate pairs are examined for the period from IGY through IQSY. Although the monthly median values of foF2 at conjugate stations showed poor correlations, deviations from the median values, ΔfoF2, on individual days exhibited positive conjugate correlations in all seasons for both geomagnetically quiet and disturbed periods. Furthermore, a negatively correlated temporal variation of ΔfoF2 was discovered between the equatorial zone (L < 1.09) and the low-latitude zone (1.1 <L< 1.3). All of these results indicate a strong diffusion effect along field lines."
"The present experimental evidence for the existence of a streaming of a photoelectron flux between magnetically conjugate hemispheres is reviewed. During local night but sunlit conjugate conditions, significant effects are observed on electron temperature, ionic composition, electron density distribution, the intensity of a weak plasma resonance line, and 6300-Å airglow emissions, due to the conjugate photoelectron flux. The flux is viewed as important not only in its ionospheric and magnetospheric effects, but also as a tool to probe and study related phenomena."
"In winter, as has previously been reported, the electron temperature at Arecibo starts to increase prior to local sunrise following illumination of the conjugate ionosphere. The roles played by heat conduction along the field line and by photoelectrons that traverse the field line are investigated. Photoelectron fluxes, calculated in the manner described by Nisbet, have been used to examine the mechanism of presunrise heating at Arecibo. Detailed analyses are made of the escaping photoelectron flux from the conjugate region including the effect of elastic collisions with neutrals in confining the photoelectrons. Comparisons between the theoretical heat input and observed energy losses in ambient electrons are presented. Also the theoretical and measured heat fluxes are compared."
"Airborne ionospheric measurements have been made during solar minimum years (1963–1965) off the east coast of the United States from Boston to Puerto Rico, the area conjugate to the western slope of the South Atlantic magnetic anomaly. Vertical incidence ionosonde soundings were made on 17 flights under both day and night conditions, and were compared with ground-based observations along the 75° W meridian. On several late afternoon and night flights, higher values of foF2 were observed over the North Atlantic Ocean compared with the same local time values observed by the ground stations. During the daytime, no such enhancements were found. To determine the east-west extent of this anomaly, an additional analysis was made using published true-height profile data (from White Sands, New Mexico, as well as from the east coast chain), which revealed that the east coast exhibits a significant enhancement of F-region ionization when compared to White Sands and manifests seasonal and diurnal variations. Earlier reported measurements in the southern conjugate region indicated that there is an effect of dumping of trapped electrons, which is most pronounced in the F layer on the western slope of the magnetic anomaly between L = 1.75 and 3 during December and January. No significant D- or E-region effects have been observed in both hemispheres as yet. Circumstantial evidence indicates that there are F-region ionospheric effects in the Northern Hemisphere due to energetic electrons backscattered from the southern dumping region."
"Certain statistical features of the occurrence of intense sporadic E(Es) at temperate latitudes continue to defy explanation. These are: The dominance of the summer maximum, the double-humped diurnal curve, the abrupt collapse of the summer peak as one progresses to higher latitudes than 60° geomagnetic, and the preference for quiet over magnetically disturbed days. The location of the plasmapause is found to be appropriate to explain the collapse of the summer peak; and its variation in position a possible reason for the preference for quiet days. The summer peak itself (and possibly the shape of the diurnal curve) may be attributable to conditions in the conjugate ionosphere."
"The present investigation is concerned with scintillation observations of radio signals at 40 MHz from satellite BE-B recorded at Adak, Alaska, and at Wellington, New Zealand. The point conjugate to Adak is approximately 1000 km west of Wellington along a constant L shell. The nighttime irregularity patches that cause scintillation have a dimension 500 km in the north-south direction and much larger in the east-west direction. Therefore, Adak and Wellington are sufficiently close to being a conjugate pair to permit a meaningful correlation of scintillation study. One year's data have been studied, extending from October 1964, through October 1965. The nighttime scintillation shows a semiannual variation especially equatorward of Adak and Wellington. Cross-correlation studies indicate that the conjugate effect is statistically significant at night, but not in daytime. There is also an indication of slight asymmetry with respect to L shells. When the time difference of observations at the two stations is reduced from 2 1/2 hr to 1/2 hr, the correlation coefficient is increased from 0.46 to 0.56. This suggests the time variability of the phenomenon under study."
"Observations with riometers at four pairs of conjugate, or nearly conjugate, stations have been studied to determine how closely auroral radio absorption is correlated at magnetically conjugate points. The available evidence suggests that, if the loss of correlation due to imperfect siting of the stations and to the movement of conjugate points is taken into account, the conjugate correlation remains suprisingly good to high latitudes and perhaps throughout the auroral region. It is suggested that conjugate points move seasonally and irregularly by 100 to 200 km at the earth's surface."
"A summary of balloon observations of electron bremsstrahlung bearing on conjugate relationships, with particular consideration given to temporal and spatial features of electron precipitation that offer the best means of exploring the problem for energetic particles."
"This paper presents preliminary results of measurements of 50 to 1000 keV electrons at the geomagnetic equator at 6.6 Re. Quiet-day electron fluxes exhibit a diurnal dip in intensity at local midnight accompanied by a softening of the electron spectrum. During geomagnetically disturbed times the 50 to 150 keV electrons exhibit large fluctuations in intensity; we have denoted these fluctuations as “spikes.” These spikes are largest just after local midnight and decrease in intensity as local time increases. They have a duration of about 1 hr and tend to recur with about a 2-hr period. The electron spectrum softens considerably during the spikes. Generally the variations in intensity of the electrons correlates excellently with the Kp index."
"During magnetically disturbed times, large intensity variations are observed for electrons of energies 50- to 150-keV at the geostationary orbit of the ATS-1 satellite. Simultaneously, the correlation experiment at the magnetic conjugate region of the satellite has shown that large fluxes of bremsstrahlung X-rays from precipitated energetic electrons are observed on high-altitude balloons while magnetic bays are recorded on the ground. The conclusion reached is that the magnetospheric substorm is responsible for the simultaneous intensification of the trapped particle population at 6.6 Re equatorial plane and of precipitated energetic electrons at the magnetic conjugate region."
"The plasmapause is a three-dimensional field aligned boundary that divides the closed field-line portion of the earth's magnetosphere into two physically distinct regions. The boundary is asymmetric, usually exhibiting a minimum geocentric range near dawn and a maximum near dusk under conditions of moderate but steady geomagnetic agitation (Kp = 2—4). The mean equatorial radius of the plasmapause is typically about 4RE, but it may vary from about 5.5RE during periods of extreme quiet to the range 2—3RE during great storms. The approximately corotating thermal plasma within the boundary exhibits two types of radial drift motions. These may be visualized as: (a) slow “breathing” motions that follow the radial variations in a fixed, asymmetric boundary; (b) more rapid, transient (1–2 hr) motions that occur when the boundary position varies, as is the case during a polar substorm."
"In the frequency range of 4.0 to 0.002 Hz natural rapid variations of the magnetic field of the earth have been reported to occur at pairs of near-geomagnetically conjugate locations in the Northern and Southern Hemispheres. This paper is a review of the present knowledge of such phenomena. At conjugate auroral and subauroral latitude stations, the pulsations of irregular amplitude variation (pi) which are associated with particle precipitation, are, at times, simultaneous and of identical form, but on occasions quite dissimilar activity occurs. The pulsations with a smooth, more sinusoidal form (pc) are generally quite similar at conjugate locations. Polarization determinations of the pc's have been most recently investigated to determine the propagation characteristics of hydromagnetic waves in the magnetosphere. Similar rapid magnetic field variations at low latitude and equatorial stations are often found at many widely spaced stations not necessarily conjugate."
"Radial diffusion coefficients for low-energy protons in the magnetosphere are estimated for processes involving Pc 1, 2, and 3 hydromagnetic waves. These diffusion coefficients are compared to rough estimates of diffusion due to magnetic impulses and bays, to arrive at an overall diffusion rate. An effective loss rate for ptich-angle diffusion (caused by Pc 1) is developed, and combined with radial diffusion to yield a nonlinear differential equation. Some estimates of expected proton flux levels are made on the basis of this equation."
"Five magnetometers in an east-west line and centered on the Byrd conjugate point were operated during October 1963. The correlation of the hourly range was highest between Byrd (Antarctica) and Cape Jones (Canada), the central., station, but the maximum correlation was west of the Byrd conjugate point during the morning and east after local noon. The coherency between these stations during storms or pulsations was highest for periods greater than 30 min. At periods from 1.5 to 30 min, the coherency was less than 0.5 except when pulsations occurred. The coherency was slightly higher for the amplitude of the horizontal disturbance vector than for the H component and the total force disturbance vector, while the Z component had the lowest coherency. The distribution of the Pc 5 polarization diagrams with the best fit to the Byrd diagram was centered on the Byrd conjugate point as were the pulsations with the same amplitude."
"Using simultaneous records of polar magnetic substorms from two pairs of geomagnetically conjugate stations (College-Macquarie; Reykjavik-Syowa), the magnitude of positive bays is shown to be mainly controlled by the ionization produced by solar wave radiation, not by the intense auroral particle bombardment which is the major factor for negative bays. Also shown is that the pattern of the polar electrojet with respect to the dipole pole is displaced or different in the two polar caps, particularly in the solstitial months. The electrojet appears farther toward the pole in the winter polar cap than in the summer one. These results bear on the configuration of the field lines in or near the magnetospheric tail, if auroral particles originate there."
"The ATS—1 spacecraft was placed in a synchronous orbit on 6 December 1966. The spin-stabilized satellite corotates with the earth in the equatorial plane at a geocentric distance of 6.6 RE and a longitude of 150° W. The satellite is maintained with a spin rate of 97 rpm and with its spin axis parallel to the earth's spin axis."
"1. Introduction In this paper we report initial results of a study of magnetic activity at 6.6 RE (1 RE = radius of earth) during geomagnetic storms. The magnetic field measurements at 6.6 RE were obtained with a magnetometer on board the synchronous, equatorial earth satellite, ATS–1, which was launched on 6 December 1966. The spacecraft and magnetometer are described briefly in Part 1 (Cummings and Coleman, 1968)."
"A sample distribution of conjugate points is calculated from various models of the main geomagnetic field, evaluated at different epochs. A summary of the conclusions is: (1) For L < 4 the errors are of the order of a few tens of kilometers; (2) older models of the field such as the Finch-Leaton give results within a few degrees of the latest more accurate models; (3) use of the eccentric dipole approximation gives errors that range from a few tens of kilometers at high latitude to several hundred kilometers near the equator; and (4) the secular change of conjugate-point locations is very small, averaging 1 to 10 km/yr. Inclusion of Mead's boundary field for a trace from Macquarie Island to Alaska (L = 5) shifts the conjugate only about 100 km. It is concluded that for L ≥ 5 the field line passes through regions where the field intensity is weak enough to require that realistic estimates of the distortions due to plasma interactions be included in conjugate-point determinations. (These estimates are not now available.)"
"Results are presented of calculations leading to maps of the Northern and Southern Hemispheres that show contours, per annum, of the number of simultaneous nighttime hours at magnetically conjugate observatories."
"The actions of a new atmospherics analyzer, which determines for every incoming atmospheric the apparent angle of arrival together with, certain characteristics of the VLF spectrum, are briefly explained. Then the physical significance of the observable spectral quantities are considered by use of a simplified version of the VLF waveguide mode theory. Finally, spectral observations of a 4-week period are presented in such a way that the influence of daytime and azimuth are evident and comparison with theoretical propagation computations is enabled."
"Propagation of hydromagnetic waves in the presence of a constant current density is investigated. The theory is developed from macroscopic equations in which a constant current density is introduced by assuming streaming velocities of the electron and ion fluids. The general dispersion relation is derived, and approximate solutions of the dispersion relation are obtained for special situations. The special cases of this paper refer to a propagation vector in the direction of the magnetic field (“parallel propagation”). In parallel propagation, a transverse current density leaves the propagation vector unaffected, but causes a longitudinal electric field component and a consequent change of the ray direction. With the propagation vector and the current density in the magnetic field direction, the effect of currents is significant when J0/H0 is of the order of k = ≃/Vα (with H0 = B0/μ0 and Vα as the Alfvén velocity). When the quantity J0/H0 is larger than the wave number k, the current densities lead to a nonconvective instability. A numerical evaluation demonstrates the effect that currents in the ionosphere and magnetosphere may have on the waves."
"A solution is presented for TM plane wave scattering from a corrugated structure with zero thickness plates and two different, alternating groove depths. Expressions for the reflection coefficients, obtainable for any number of propagating modes, are explicitly shown in the frequency range corresponding to a single (TEM) mode propagation in the plates and two diffracted spectral orders present in the free-space region. The scattering matrix for the junction discontinuity is derived with the help of an interesting procedure. The solution has potential applications in the study of Wood anomalies of diffraction gratings and guided waves on modulated structures. The procedure may easily be generalized to an arbitrary number of different groove depths."
"The limitations of detection of a small metallic sphere by the electromagnetic induction method are discussed. Particular attention is given to the masking effect of a conductive half space located beneath the scatterer. The results indicate that a dual frequency operation should provide the required discrimination."
"This note deals with some calculations involving the characteristics of the first normal modes and the lateral wave in a homogeneous straight dielectric slab bounded by free space on the one side and a perfect conductor on the other. Both the transmitter and receiver (isotropic radiators) are placed within the slab, d(Km) apart. The varying parameter is $\\alpha = kh \\sqrt {2\\Delta n}$ where k is the wave number, h is the width of the slab, and Δn = n — 1 ≪ 1 is the deviation of the refractive index of the slab from the free space. The layer is, therefore, considered a “weak” one which makes the obtained numerical results applicable particularly to some types of low level just above the sea surface tropospheric waveguides supporting microwave propagation."
"Measured relative field-strength curves for frequencies in the range 2—50 MHz are given for propagation of vertically polarized radio waves through New Guinea coastal rain forest (jungle). These indicate very high attenuation at the higher frequencies."
"Phase difference measurements made with an accuracy of 5° between pairs of antennas separated by up to 150 yards in three directions (N, E, and SW) show that radio waves reflected from the ionosphere are generally not sufficiently stable in direction for any particular component to be regarded as being specular in the usual sense. It is concluded that the coherence ratio should be regarded as equal to zero except in very special one-hop cases. The equipment used for the measurements is described in general form."
"The specular component of an ionospherically reflected radio wave giving highly correlated signals between elements of an array of antennas is measured and found to vary in a way suggesting that it is Rayleigh distributed. Examples illustrating the rate at which variations occur are given and it becomes clear why averages over different periods may give quite dissimilar results. It is inferred that there is, strictly speaking, no specular component but a group of rays all coming from very similar directions."
"Simultaneous measurements of refractive index and radar reflectivity have been made in the clear atmosphere. The theoretical relationship between the refractive index spectrum and reflectivity described by Tatarski was used to compute reflectivity from the refractive index data. Excellent agreement is shown between the computed and measured reflectivity. These results indicate, (1) reflections from the clear atmosphere can be described quantitatively in terms of the refractivity spectrum, and (2) the −5/3 refractivity spectrum well represents the atmosphere for these data out to limiting microscales smaller than 5 cm."
"A class of two-dimensional diffraction and scattering problems is considered for evaluating the influence of idealized terrain features in groundwave propagation. The analysis makes extensive Use of the orthogonality properties of the Airy type wave functions which characterize the height dependence of the modes. The procedure is quite straightforward when reflected modes are small. Also, multiple obstacles may be treated without difficulty. Finally, it is indicated that the results may be applied to three-dimensional configurations if certain minor modifications are introduced."
"Propagation experiments were conducted on Cape Cod, the Adirondack region of New York State, and in Cheyenne Mountain in Colorado to determine the feasibility of communication between vertical linear antennas located in drill holes in the rock below overburden, and similar antennas located on the surface of the ground. The bulk conductivity of the propagation media, i.e., the average conductivity along the path between the antennas, must be determined by measurements of propagation loss and transmission delay, because of the lack of homogeneity in the rock media. High values of bulk conductivity limited experiments to the VLF region on Cape Cod and the Adirondacks, which involved ranges of 1.6 km and 5 km. respectively. Distances up to 48 km in the LF region were achieved by up-and-over transmissions from inside Cheyenne Mountain. Analysis of the experimental results and theoretical considerations indicate that the usefulness of the through-the-rock mechanism is severely limited by the bulk conductivity. For shallow antenna depths, particularly if the overburden is thin or absent, substantial transmission ranges can be achieved by using up-over-down propagation."
"There has arisen recently some interest in absorptive obstacles possessing low scattering cross sections. One such obstacle is the very thin, short metallic filament which can absorb, typically, 20 to 30 dB more energy than it scatters. To calculate simply and quickly the broadside backscattering and absorption cross sections versus conductivity of such filaments and to explain their nature, a Thevenin equivalent circuit is postulated which yields reasonably accurate results under suitable restrictions on filament size. The cross sections so derived are checked by an independent computer calculation based on the point matching technique."
"A technique is developed in this paper which greatly reduces the numerical labor involved in the Fourier Transform solution for cylindrical antennas of exbitrary length. This method is then applied to solid antennas with two commonly used excitation geometries. It is also applied to the case of an antenna in a homogeneous conducting media. In all cases it is shown that the numerical results compare very well with the available experimental results."
"The interaction of a plane wave and a slightly rough surface tilted away from a reference plane is investigated. Expressions for the scattered fields are obtained to second order for a perfectly conducting and a dielectric surface. In the limiting case of no tilt the fields agree with those of Rice. When the normal to the surface is rotated about the intersection between the incidence plane and the reference plane, the treatment yields important polarization effects and gives explicitly as a function of the tilt which irregularities on the surface contribute to the scattered power. Numerical results are obtained to investigate the relative magnitudes of the terms contributing to the cross sections."
"The wavelength dependence of microwave propagation far beyond the radio horizon is studied experimentally and theoretically. The experiments made over a 259-km path at 1000 MHz and 3000 MHz with scaled antennas give as a main result a wavelength dependence of actually received power relative to received power in free space ranging from λ−1 to λ3. The exponent of the wavelength dependence is found to be correlated to the level of received signal power. Calculations are made of received signal power under the assumption that the tropospheric refractive index field of the common volume is of a turbulent structure, where the variations obey the −5/3 spectral law. There are also locally sharp boundaries within the common volume, which act as reflecting facets. A meteorological reasoning leads to the conclusion that there is a connection between the intensity of the turbulence and the refractive index gradient through the reflecting facets. Based on this, we get a relation between the exponent of the wavelength dependence and the level of received signal power. As a main result, reflections in the facets at 1000 MHz play a dominating role while at 3000 MHz, turbulent scatter is the most important propagation mechanism. Finally, theoretical and experimental results are compared and a comparatively good agreement is found."
"The focusing gain parameters associated with radio waves reflected obliquely from the ionosphere as derived theoretically are compared with experimental observations. The description of the field in the neighborhood of the caustic depends on the shape of the ionosphere with respect to the earth. For an ionosphere concentric with the earth and a surface location transmitter it is convenient to describe the focusing gain in terms of the evaluation angle of arrival. For a tilted ionosphere, or for an elevated transmitter in which the caustic is elevated above the earth's surface, it is convenient to describe the field as a function of the distance behind the cusp, and above the caustic surface. Experimental observations indicate both situations may exist in nature. The concentric ionosphere is termed the normal situation, and a gain inversely proportional to the approximate cube of the elevation angle was indicated by the experimental data as opposed to a straight inverse relationship by geometric optics. The effect of a distorted ionosphere was evidenced by strong focusing gain at positive elevation angles. It is hypothesized that an increase in curvature of the ionosphere can result in the observed gains which would be consistent with the theory. The required curvature has been observed on other experimental programs."
"Sunrise modal interference patterns are analyzed to reveal the variation with latitude of VLF propagation parameters. For VLF transmissions from NLK/NPG and WWVL received in New Zealand, the sunrise interference observations confirm Lynn's result that anomalies in the phase and magnitude of mode conversion occur when the sunrise line is near the geomagnetic equator. A smaller anomalous effect is observed during sunset. Analyzing data for many paths in the frequency range 18–20 kHz, it is found that D (the interference wavelength of the first and second modes in the nighttime waveguide) differs little from the theoretically expected value (about 2 Mm) between geomagnetic latitudes 30° and 60°. At smaller geomagnetic latitudes, however, values of D up to 3 Mm are observed for westward propagation. This large increase in D explains anomalous observations of nighttime amplitude."
"The theoretical relation between the amplitude distribution of noise and the resulting distribution of phase error in a sinusoid is developed for all values of the parameters. It is shown that the rms phase error can be determined directly from the noise amplitude distribution. The method is illustrated using experimental samples of atmospheric noise amplitude distributions observed in a particular receiving system for VLF timing pulses. For amplitudes well above manmade interference, the atmospheric noise in these samples closely follows a 2¾-power law."
"The complex Doppler effect is analyzed from the time behavior of the radiation field of an oscillating source traversing a dispersive medium. The effect is calculated for the case where an oscillating electric dipole is moving uniformly through an ionized gas permeated by an infinitely large magnetostatic field. It is found that the radiation field can be split into a number of waves, each having characteristics of its own, and that the number of waves changes with time. The group velocity of each individual wave is shown to play an important role in the physical mechanism of the effect."
"A modified diffraction coefficient, suitable for the computation of higher order edge-edge interaction terms in the two-dimensional diffraction by a narrow slit and a circular aperture, is derived. The resulting improvement in the accuracy of the transmission cross section over the usual asymptotic expressions is established. By comparison with the exact solutions for these cases, it is shown that the coefficient may be used with confidence for such apertures when Ka ≥ 1, where K is the wave-number and a is half the characteristic dimension of the aperture."
"A plot of the relationship {IF2)12/R12 for each month of the period 1942–1967 exhibits a hysteresis characteristic in addition to a systematic change from one solar cycle to the next. A relationship based on all these data is proposed and a means is suggested of fitting this expression to the particular “half cycle of interest. In this way a conversion of parameter from R to 1F2 may be made, with all the attendant advantages of the use of the latter index, in expressions relating R to ionospheric behavior based on the measured results of a particular period."
"The uniform lamination analysis method is used for the solution of the simplified integral equation which relates the electron density profiles in the ionosphere to the average measured virtual heights, taking the wave refractive index as the kernel function. The arbitrary auxiliary function is chosen to be f(fN) = μ(f; fN), which simplifies the calculation as compared to taking f(fN) = fN). Four examples are calculated for both cases and compared with the original assumed electron density profiles. Accuracy and required computer times are discussed."
"The power spectrum of the reflection of quasi-monochromatic radiation from an array of discontinuities in a long transmission line is analyzed using the theory of partial coherence. Under certain conditions this spectrum is modulated and analysis of the modulation can yield information on the range and magnitude of a distant reflector. Because of this, the use of power spectrum analysis as a radar technique is proposed and expressions for range resolution and useful range are obtained. The results of some preliminary experimental measurements are also presented."
"This study is the examination of the diffracted field produced by an H-type plane wave striking a moving conducting wedge. This is the first attempt to examine diffraction by a moving body possessing an edge. The procedure consists of applying the Lorentz transformation to the stationary wedge problem, solving for the diffracted cylindrical field in a Sommerfeld integral formulation, and transforming the solution to the frame of the incident wave. It is shown that there is a shift in the apparent direction of incidence. Graphical results showing the modification of the far-field amplitude for the case of a half-plane are also presented."
"The near fields of a cylindrical transmitting antenna have been computed in free space by modifying a variational impedance formulation. Current distributions that decay linearly with distance from the ends of the antenna excite strong tangential and parallel electric fields near the antenna ends. Such fields are avoided by choosing the axial antenna current to vary in proportion to the square root of the distance from the antenna ends. The electric fields parallel to the antenna surface decrease with increasing distance ρ from the antenna axis near the driving point and the antenna ends, but are found to increase in an intermediate range. The magnetic fields exhibit an approximately inverse distance dependence, but the deviations from this inverse ρ dependence are significant for establishing a correlation with the variations of the electric fields."
"A cylindrical dipole antenna, immersed in a warm homogeneous and isotropic plasma and driven at the center by a delta-function voltage generator, is treated as a boundary value problem. The current on the antenna is determined and found to consist of two parts: a slowly varying component that varies like the current on an antenna in a cold medium, and an oscillating component. The spatial periodicity of-the oscillatory component is of the same order as that of the surface waves launched on an infinite tube containing and surrounded by warm plasma. If the antenna is driven well above the plasma frequency, the oscillatory portion of the current is negligible, while if it is driven at slightly above the plasma frequency, the oscillatory portion of current is dominant. It is found that a radiation resistance calculation made by using a current distribution valid only for an antenna in a cold environment can be incorrect when applied to an antenna in a warm plasma."
"An extensive quantitative experimental investigation was conducted on the influence of a magnetic field on the radiation from a horn antenna situated behind a layer or sheath of plasma. The magnetic field direction in the experiments was along the principal direction of radiation of the antenna which is normal to the layer of plasma. The experimental results were compared with theory based on the reciprocity theorem. For the left circularly polarized wave radiation pattern, propagation effects at off-normal incidence corresponding to the condition for which the ordinary wave mode switches to the extraordinary wave mode as the electron density passes through the critical density are shown to be of importance. For the right circularly polarized wave mode, significant departures in the measured radiation pattern from the theoretical occur in the region of the electron cyclotron frequency and below. Satisfactory correspondence between theory and experiment is found for values of the electron cyclotron frequency that are greater than the wave frequency."
"A geometrical optics treatment of ionospheric focusing is presented which is exact within the assumptions of horizontal stratification of the ionosphere and of the collision-free Appleton-Hartree equation. In addition to effects of ray refraction, the expression derived for gain distribution in the beam outside the ionosphere includes in a natural manner the directional characteristics of the antenna in the plasma. These involve both the antenna geometry and the characteristic polarizations of the incident waves. The factors in the gain expression which are dependent only on the plasma characteristics are expressed in closed form. Evaluation of the remaining factors, in general, requires knowledge of the current distribution on the antenna. For the case of an electrically short dipole, this evaluation is carried out and the gain distribution expressed in closed form, apart from a normalizing factor that can only be determined by numerical integration. The properties of the gain distribution are illustrated by contour plots."
"We examine VLF electromagnetic radiation through an ionized gas in a permanent magnetic field (magnetoionic medium). Such a medium can be taken as a model of the ionosphere. We work from the Fourier transform of the dyadic Green's function which relates the current density and the electric field. Asymptotic expansions of the function are obtained for both small and large separation. The expansions for small separation can be used to discuss the power radiated by a current distribution (antenna). Special attention is given to the power radiated by a Hertzian dipole, and a conflict in the literature (Staras, 1964; Lee and Papas, 1965) is resolved. The expansion for large separation can be used to discuss the far field. The radiated far field is shown to propagate most strongly along the field lines of the permanent magnetic field. The far field radiated by a Hertzian dipole is considered."
"This paper compares methods for computing reflection coefficients for LF and VLF radio waves that are obliquely incident on a horizontally stratified medium. A recursive technique requiring a digital computer is used for reference calculations. This method is compared with two approximate methods that are suitable for use with hand or graphical calculations. Ionospheric profiles that result in reflection from very diffuse and depressed regions are considered. It is shown that for a great variety of disturbed conditions, the approximate techniques are adequate for predicting reflection coefficient magnitude."
"Variations in atmospheric radio noise intensity measured at Kekaha, Hawaii, are used to detect long-lasting ionospheric absorption produced by late-time, radioactive debris deposited in the upper atmosphere by the high-altitude nuclear explosions Star Fish and King Fish. Variations in noise source intensity and location, combined with variations in radio propagation conditions between the source and receiver, describe the observed variations in received noise power at a distant station. At Kekaha, the noise level on frequencies between 0.5 and 5.0 MHz was depressed for about four nights following each explosion. The depression is explained by the existence of a low-intensity absorbing region occupying a wide geographic area that effectively fills a major portion of the omnidirectional antenna beam employed at the noise receiving station."
"The otherwise excellent paper by Breeden and Sheppard (A note on the millimeter and submillimeter wave dielectric constant and loss tangent value of some common materials, Radio Science, Vol. 3 (New Series), No. 2, Feb. 1968, p. 205) contains a statement that may be misleading to some readers. Their results show that the loss tangent of polyethylene is very small and virtually independent of frequency, from X-band to 1000 GHz, and they conclude, therefore, that it is “nearly as transparent at 1000 GHz as it is at 10 GHz.” However, this statement is true only if “transparent” is given a very special and restrictive definition."
"We appreciate the comments by Mr. Blake and his interest in our paper. Mr. Blake's interpretation of the meaning of our use of the word “transparent” is obviously correct, and we appreciate his attempt to clarify this point to the reader. However, clarification is also required for Mr. Blake's comments with regard to the attenuation through a finite thickness sample."
"A method is described analyzing the radiation characteristics of a spherical array by means of the Poisson sum technique. The elements are arranged as a series of circular arrays of different radii on a spherical surface. The main beam behaves as (sin u)/u. A method of estimating other side-lobe characteristics is also described; numerical examples are given."
"In a uniformly fed in-phase curvilinear array, space phase is the only component that determines the field pattern of the array. A field pattern of the array can be found by simple proportionality techniques, employing the stationary phase principle and by-passing tedious point-by-point calculations. Field patterns and source density functions of circular-arc arrays are shown to be linearly interdependent. The derivation is based on Poisson's sum formula and the principle of stationary phase. A simple synthesis technique is discussed; two illustrations are included."
"The five-term method developed for two arbitrarily located parallel antennas (Chang, 1967) has been successfully extended to a general antenna array of N parallel elements. The method can be applied to either planar array or three-dimensional array. The array is characterized either by specifying driving voltages or input currents. Arrays of both half-wave and full-wave elements are discussed. The results reveal that the phase of the current along the antenna does not stay constant, as is generally assumed, even for arrays of half-wave elements. As a consequence, differences between the actual computed field patterns and the ideal patterns computed by assuming sinusoidal currents are not negligible even in the main beam region. The input admittances of the elements vary widely from element to element. For the arrays of half-wave elements, a complete analysis is also carried out with the conventional emf method. The results reveal the inadequacy of the emf method in dealing with these arrays."
"Recent theoretical and experimental works on large arrays showed important advantages of random spacings over conventional uniform spacings. In that design, however, the elements can be anywhere in the aperture; as a result, the element distribution becomes completely chaotic, an undesirable practice. In this paper, another approach is investigated, which allows a random selection of elements over a uniform grid system in the aperture, thereby giving rise to an array with random periodic pattern function. Probabilistic properties of these arrays are analyzed in detail and several Monte Carlo experiments are used to verify the theory."
"The evaluation of the performance of density-tapered arrays may be made in simple terms and based on the simple concept of dividing the total input power into a “design” component and a “hash” component of radiation. The design component is the nominal directive radiation pattern that would result from the continuous aperture excitation of the array; the hash component is the wide-angle radiation that results from the gaps in the aperture excitation required in density tapering. The parameters evaluated include antenna gain, number of active and inactive (dummy) elements, and the level of hash radiation. Density tapering is compared with amplitude tapering, and formulas are summarized for convenient reference. Examples of particular low side-lobe taper functions have been computed, and the results are tabulated."
"A theory of synthesizing linear antenna arrays for the best mean-square approximation of given radiation patterns is presented in this paper. Element currents and spacings are allowed to vary to achieve the best approximation. Approximations of the given patterns are also made by synthesizing the optimum uniformly spaced arrays. For a given number of elements the nonuniformly spaced arrays give better mean-square approximations than uniformly spaced arrays. The characteristic vector approach is employed for finding the optimum element excitations and spacings."
"A spacing perturbation technique is developed for the maximization of the directive gain or the signal-to-noise ratio of a linear array of identical elements. The initial array can be of uniform or nonuniform spacings with any given excitation amplitude and phase distribution. After an optimum set of spacings is obtained by perturbation, the excitation amplitudes and phases can be adjusted for further improvement in the performance index of interest. The optimum spacings can be recalculated and the cycle of iteration repeated if desired. The spacing perturbation technique is based on a new optimization theorem; there is no need to solve nonlinear equations or to rely on a trial-and-error procedure. Illustrative examples are given for both broadside and endfire operations. Typical radiation patterns are plotted that bring out a number of interesting features of the optimization process."
"A method is presented to synthesize linear array patterns in which the side lobes decay very rapidly on either side of the main beam and at the same time exhibit, very closely, the optimum property of Dolph-Chebyshev patterns. When compared with Dolph-Chebyshev arrays having an equal number of elements, the side lobes of the modified arrays are considerably lower, the gain is approximately the same, and there is a small increase in the width of the main beam. For larger arrays, the increase in the beam width is negligible. In the cases where it is difficult to realize practical Dolph-Chebyshev arrays, modified arrays appear to be more practical. Some specific examples are given."
"Based on the Haar's theorem, known in the general approximation theory, a method of synthesizing an optimum concentric ring array is presented. The far field pattern function of such an array is first formulated in terms of the zeroth-order first kind Bessel function. A numerical approach is used for obtaining a solution approximating any specified radiation pattern according to the “minimax” rather than the ordinary least-mean-square error criterion. With respect to a prespecified array size, the solution obtained has the following properties: (1) the maximum deviation between the synthesized and desired patterns is minimized, (2) the side lobes are approximately equal in level if the specified pattern is a Gaussian function, (3) a maximum directive gain can be realized, (4) a minimum number of elements required to achieve such a performance can be determined, and (5) the solution is unique under certain conditions. The theory and method to be presented are valid for arrays consisting of either isotropic sources or physical directional elements."
"The product of aperture size and beam width for a continuous linear array of isotropic radiators is shown to be bounded below by a positive constant that depends upon the supergain ratio γ and the fraction of the radiated power contained in the main beam. The approach employed is patterned after the usual derivation of the uncertainty relation in quantum mechanics."
"A new method for solving rectangular waveguide array impedance problems is described in which the waveguide-space junction is regarded as two junctions separated by a parallel plate region. The scattering matrices for each junction must first be determined by solving the scalar problems for the E and H modes. An equivalent circuit for the array consists of the interconnection of the ports of these two junctions using the parallel plate transmission line modes. The reflection coefficient for all scan angles can be found explicitly for arbitrary lengths of the plates. The method is particularly suitable for arrays where the parallel plate region is substantial in length, and where no other method of solution is available, but in any case valuable physical insight into the array impedance problem is gained by this formulation. Severed types of arrays that can be analyzed using this method are described. An array of maximally spaced thin walled waveguides in a triangular lattice and with H plane baffles is analyzed numerically and shown to possess a fundamental surface wave effect mismatch. The same type of array with the elements more closely spaced is matched by a suitable choice of the baffle length to a VSWR of 1.58 or better within the scan range of 45° from broadside."
"The problem of matching an infinite, electronically steerable array is considered here. We show that for an array with smooth boundaries, a perfect match over a continuous scanning range implies a nonphysical field in the array-space interface. Thus, although an array match can be considerably improved, a perfect match over a continuous scanning range cannot be obtained in general."
"The fading of a radar return from a planetary surface can be interpreted as a drift of a random diffraction pattern over the receiving antenna. Measurement of the signal autocorrelation function can, therefore, be interpreted as a spatial correlation (visibility) along the direction of drift. With two spaced antennas the cross-correlation of the received signals with variable time shifts is shown to lead to a variable effective baseline. It therefore takes only a one-dimensional array of receiving antennas to completely cover the two-dimensional correlation plane. Aperture synthesis technique as discussed is applied to the mapping of the lunar surface at 23 cm."
"For those radioastronomical observations that involve the recording of signals from broadband noise sources, the efficiency of the antenna as well as the shape of the antenna pattern can be significantly improved by operating over as wide a frequency band as possible. The advantages become particularly prominent for arrays that extend to spacings of thousands of wavelengths. The effect of the operating bandwidth on the far-field pattern of interferometers and rectangular arrays is investigated. The improvements that can be expected from wideband operation in various other cases are outlined."
"An antenna is considered as a space-time sampling system whose function is to abstract from the incoming signals the information required for a particular system objective. Examples of such array designs are described for communication and radar objectives. A self-phased array is described that optimizes the reception of communications signals. An optimum radar array processing is shown to provide a significant resolution improvement over the conventional array."
"A laboratory model suitable for use in the investigation of transhorizon radio wave propagation phenomena is described. The model allows a scale factor of 1.16 × 10+6 to relate observations on the model to observations on a dielectric sphere the size of the earth. Measurements to show that the fields over the model agree with the classical “airless earth” solution are presented."
"Diffuse nonblanketing type sporadic E layers of midlatitudes are considered in the light of recent plasma instability theory. Some irrelularities observed in the E region do not seem to be associated with the wind-shear mechanism. Computer study of nonlinear cross-field instability strongly suggests that this instability is responsible for irregularity formation in the E region of midlatitudes."
"An attempt has been made to account for the observed double-peak amplitude distribution for the vertically directed radio pulses returned from the sporadic E region in terms of the double layer that is occasionally formed in that region."
"The morphology of irregular micropulsations Pi 2 is discussed with particular reference to their polarization, frequency spectrum, and relation with the Kp index of magnetic activity. Pi activity at the near conjugate auroral zone stations of Great Whale River and Byrd is examined in some detail. Other types of Pi activity (SIP's and IPDP's) are discussed and theories of Pi's and possible source mechanisms for Pi 2's are reviewed."
"The sunrise and sunset interference patterns observed in VLF propagation over long paths are largely consistent with the model of mode conversion interference proposed by Crombie, which considers both the first and second modes in the nighttime portion of the path, but only the first mode in the daytime portion. Several authors, however, have reported anomalies during the first part of the sunrise transition. Except for effects produced by a direct second mode, these anomalies may be explained by a model of mode conversion interference which involves first and second mode propagation along the daytime portion of the path, and first mode propagation along the nighttime portion."
"We study the propagation of a wave in an arbitrarily stratified medium in the presence of small random irregularities. The technique of two-dimensional Fourier-Stieltjes spectral representation for the random field is used to formulate this problem. With high frequency wave propagation in mind, we applied the W.K.B. method to yield approximate expressions for structure (correlation) functions for the logarithmic amplitude and phase departure of the wave field. The results are compared with those derived for a random medium with homogeneous background. An example is given in which the effect on the amplitude and phase fluctuations due to the stratified background is explicitly computed."
"Measurements of the distribution of electric field intensity along a periodic radiating structure consisting of a dipole array coupled to a balanced transmission line reveal a standing-wave pattern that is formed at the driven end of the structure. We propose that this standing wave is formed by the interference of two normal modes of the coupled structure. These modes are found to possess conjugate wave functions exp [—αx±jβx], and to carry energy in opposite directions on the transmission line. They are identified with transmitting and receiving modes of the infinite, periodic structure; both are excited on a finite model to satisfy boundary conditions on both the transmission line and the dipole array at its driven end. These conjugate normal modes arise from coupling of the TEM mode of the unloaded transmission line with the complex, radiating mode of an undriven, periodic array of dipoles. The determinantal equation of the coupled array can be cast in a form that displays the mode coupling."
"The present paper describes a general problem of reflection and transmission of a plane electromagnetic wave at the interface between a stationary dielectric medium and a dielectric medium moving in an arbitrary direction parallel to the interface. Either case of an incident E or H plane wave is treated. For the incident E plane wave the reflected wave is generally no longer an E plane wave but a linear combination of E and H plane waves, and similarly the transmitted wave has not only an H-wave component but also an H-wave component. For the incident E plane wave, in addition, the E-wave components of the reflected and transmitted waves carry a positive power, but the H-wave component of the transmitted wave always carries a negative power while the power carried by the H-wave component of the reflected wave is always positive. Although the power flow with regard to the H-wave component of the transmitted wave is negative, the total power transmitted is always positive. A similar argument applies also to the case of an incident H plane wave. The phenomenon of total reflection is shown as modified in an interesting manner by the motion of a medium."
"The radiation characteristics of a horizontal antenna embedded in a conducting half space and illuminated by a refracted electromagnetic wave are investigated. Asymptotic expressions of the far fields are given in two regions: the horizontal plane of the interface at large radial distances from the vertical axis and the upper hemisphere far from the origin. Due to the interference of the fields generated by the currents in different parts of the antenna, the groundwave and spacewave radiation patterns are different from those due to an infinitesimal horizontal dipole."
"A study is made of the scattering of a plane electromagnetic wave by a long and thin metallic wire in which the case of arbitrary incidence is considered. The Wiener-Hopf technique is used to solve the integral equation. Explicit and rather simple expressions for the induced current, the far-held pattern, and the backscattering cross sections are found; numerical results are presented. These results are in reasonable agreement with existing experimental data."
"Results of antenna pattern measurements of a notch antenna are presented for variable notch lengths and different modes of notch excitation. The notch is an open slot normal to the edge of a 12° metallic wedge. Antenna patterns of the Eθ component are measured in perpendicular planes with the intersection line coincident with the notch axis. The Eθ component in the ϕ = 180° plane is compared with analytical expressions for a notch cut in a semi-infinite conducting sheet. The excitation modes, V(x), in the analytical notch expressions are Vo, cos kx, Vo sin kx, Voeikx, and Voe−ikx. The experimental verification of the assumptions in the analytical formulations is very good."
"A monopole antenna excited by a coaxial line is studied in detail. The mathematical model of the excitation is a magnetic ring current the radius of which may be larger than the radius of the cylinder. First a study is made of the waves guided by and radiated from an infinite cylinder. Numerical results for the current and the conductance are given. The conductance decreases when the gap width increases. The standing-wave antenna is treated with an assumed effective gap at the antenna ends. A solution of the antenna problem is found by superimposing the multiply reflected waves. In the solution, the effect of the gap and the antenna end separates. Accurate values for the gap admittance and the end admittance are derived from experimental values obtained by Hartig."
"On a communication link between two terminals using essentially isotropic antennas, where at least one of the terminals is in the general vicinity of an extended rough surface, scattering from that surface introduces multipath fading which must be taken into account in assessing the performance of the link. Fading, of course, occurs only if the terminal or the surface changes position with time. This paper discusses the characteristics of fading under the assumption that the surface is rigid but the terminal is moving relative to the rough surface. The important systems parameters, including the depth and rapidity of fading, associated with a given communication link are evaluated. The extension to other links is indicated."
"A method is described for calculating the resonance characteristics of the earth-ionosphere cavity. Particular attention is paid to the influence of the geomagnetic field which, for purposes of the analysis, is assumed to be purely radial. In the model used, the ionosphere is represented as a homogeneous concentric shell, which is regarded as a cold electron plasma with collisions. It is found that the geomagnetic field lowers the real resonance frequencies from those for the corresponding isotropic model."
"On checking through some of the equations, I noticed a rather fundamental error in eq (10). Using the quoted asymptotic expansions for the Airy functions, I get an extra factor"
"The apparent input admittance of an infinitely long, thick monopole driven from a low-impedance coaxial line is found. The so-called “capacitive end-correction” of an antenna driven either by an external delta-function generator or by an assumed TEM-mode excitation is then expressed in a very simple form. The theoretical results thus found agree very well with the experimental measurements."
"No abstract is available."
"E. V. Jull (August 1967), Aperture Fields in an Anisotropic Medium, Radio Sci. 2 (New Series), No. 8, 837–852."
"This standard was revised and greatly expanded in 1948, 1949, and 1956. The 1956 edition was comprised of a revision and editorial consolidation of the preceding standards on distribution, power , and regulating transformers, namely American Standard Requirements for Distribution, Power , and Regulating Transformers, and Reactors Other Than Current-Limiting Reactors, C57.12-1949, American Standard Test Code for Distribution , Power, and Regulating Transformers , C57.22-1948, and American Standard Requirements for Transformers-67,000 Volts and Below; 501 Through 10,000 kva, 3 Phase ; 501 Through 5,000 kva, 1 Phase, C57.12a-1954. In addition, in order to eliminate cross-references wherever possible, the consolidation contained excerpts from other standards of the C57 family"
"Experience and continuing rapid development in electrical insulation have demonstrated the need for periodic review and revision of this document. During the time since the 1962 revision of this document, there has been a need for a more distinct separation of insulation systems and insulating materials. Confusion in nomenclature be­ tween insulating materials and insulation systems has continued to exist. This present document attempt to overcome this conflict through the complete separation of insulating materials from insulation systems and by the introduction of the temperature index concept for insulating materials. To clarify this separation a distinct section, Part IV, is now provided for insulating materials."
"Semiconductor radiation detectors have come into widespread use in recent years for detection and high-resolution spectroscopy of ionizing radiation. Both silicon and germanium detectors have been developed, with silicon finding its principal application in the detection and analysis of heavy charged particles. Germanium detectors with their relatively high atomic number (as compared with silicon) and with large sensitive volumes have come into widespread use in the detection and analysis of gamma radiation. The rapid development and utilization of these detectors have made desirable standard test procedures so that measurements may have the same meaning to all manufacturers and users. This Test Procedure is not intended to imply that all tests described herein are mandatory, but only that such tests as are carried out on completed devices should be performed in accordance with the procedures given. A companion document is \"Test Procedure for Amplifiers and Preamplifiers for Semiconductor Radiation Detectors,\" IEEE Standards Publication No. 301."
"Semiconductor radiation detectors have come into widespread use in recent years for detection of ionizing radiation. Both silicon and germanium detectors have been developed with silicon finding its principal application in the detection and analysis of heavy charged particles. Germanium detectors with their relatively high atomic number (as compared with silicon) and with large sensitive volumes have come into widespread use in the detection and analysis of gamma radiation. The advent of semiconductor detectors has stimulated development of electronic instruments with characteristics that permit exploitation of their capabilities. This has made desirable standard test procedures so that measurements may have the same meaning to all manufacturers and users. This Test Procedure is not intended to imply that all tests described herein are mandatory, but only that such tests as are carried out should be performed in accordance with the procedures herein."
"Definitions of Terms for Radio Wave Propagation"
